ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68836	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, good morning to everyone! As regards the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Croatian National Bank, the Committee on Laws, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget will be held in the course of the day and we will return to this item of the agenda. Moving to 14. Final proposal of the Law on the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service, second reading of P.Z. No. 465; It’s a second reading, P.Z. No. 465. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the Committee on Tourism. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary of the Ministry of Interior Mr Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68837	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I will only briefly explain some of the remarks adopted and some of the government's interventions in the original text of the law. So one of the changes is that a helicopter can be hired inside and through the 112 system. The concept of an accident was then clarified, which was the observation of Stazic's representative. Then the fines for failing to comply with the obligations set out in this proposed law were increased. Then, we did not accept the observation that Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service can be intervened at sea, as this would be contrary to the obligations and powers of the national search and rescue centre at sea. Then, around training staff for professional sports jobs, it stopped working so that it could not work Croatian Mountain Rescue Service. The government also intervened with several other amendments so that it was prescribed that the Head of the Central Authority of the State Administration responsible for protection and rescue prescribes a form of conviction on final training and how to keep records of the beliefs issued. Article 8 is subsequently specified the amount of the rescue benefit for the participants who are in a working relationship. It is also deleted paragraph 3 of Article 11 that the authorities of the state administration, local, regional self-government, institutions and other legal persons are obliged to provide information to the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service that they have to carry out the basic tasks of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service because it is also part of the cooperation provided for in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article. Next, Article 12(1) states that the organizers of sports, tourism activities in both mountainous and other non-accessible areas are obliged to announce the place of maintenance for 8 days, at least 8 days before the start of the event. The amendment is in Article 17, where it is prescribed that the state budget provides funds to carry out the tasks of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service, so it is listed for which activities. Article 20 earlier 21 provides for the supervision of the legality of the work of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service and its stations to be carried out by the Central Authority in accordance with the Law on Associations, and the supervision of the exercise of the basic tasks referred to in Article 5 and the public authority of the Central Authority responsible for the protection and rescue. Article 25 provides for infringements of units of local, regional self-government. This article was deleted from who prescribed the fines, and these are mostly the most important changes. So, one part of the remarks by the representatives in the debate was adopted, and the government intervened with these proposed amendments that I sought to explain briefly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68838	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, Ms. Jagoda Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68839	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. When we discussed the Law on the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service in the first reading, we all agreed that the adoption of this law is necessary because the safety and protection of life and the health of people in the entire area of a country's primary, human and strategic public need. 80% of Croatia consists of places outside the cities of public roads and these areas are also part of Croatia and are equally worth international conventions and obligations on the security of citizens. A large part of this space, especially under poor weather conditions, is also unreachable outside the control of other national institutions, and represents a space of action and responsibility exclusively for Croatia's mountain rescue services. The number of accidents in difficult accessible spaces from year to year is growing by geometric progression and by estimates of the threat and analysis of the situation in the Republic of Croatia over the next 5 years Croatia expects an increase in the number of such accidents by 5 to 10 times. Croatia is among other things a tourist country, and worldwide tourism is increasingly based on active content where the tourist no longer looks for and buys goods or services but requires experience. In addition, it is becoming more and more a lifestyle unrelated exclusively to tourism. Croatia has all the conditions for the development of all forms of adventure tourism according to its embossed and natural characteristics. The areas where activities that form part of such a tourist offer take place include the expressions of dangers and unpredictable weather opportunities, and hence the greater possibility of accidents, material and human losses and damage. Croatia's mountain rescue service works where it is most difficult and dangerous. Here's the latest case of a Czech tourist's death that took place a few days ago on Biokow. The man has gone to Biokovo, a mountain that is unpredictable and hides numerous dangers. He went completely unprepared, and I would like to point out that the HGSS station in Makarska printed a flyer for the Macarska Riviera area in 10,000 copies in several world languages in which he warned of possible dangers and explained, for example, what equipment to go up the mountain with, and what to do in the event of danger. The flights were divided by tourist agencies and operators, and if an unhappy tourist had read it, it would not have happened to him to go after Biokovo without a cell phone, bare legs and with a liter of water alone. The consul of the Czech Republic in Croatia, Mrs Hanzova, said thanks to HGSS members, among other things, that 20 Czechs lost their lives in Croatia last year and none of them died on the roads for the first time. In the past, the victims of car accidents committed more than half of the deaths. The adoption of the Law on Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service is a prerequisite that the HGSS can be legally integrated into a unique national protection and rescue system. After the first reading debate, the legislator accepted some comments and proposals and incorporated them into the final draft of the law, but now we have an absurd situation that some of the comments made by the SDP Club have now turned into their opposite. I'll explain why I'm saying it in the follow-up. HGSS is in its regular activity actually a public service that operates in various areas of public need; health, physical culture and sports, tourism and economy, culture, here I think of national parks and protected parts of nature. Then in the areas of environmental protection, education and education, transport and so on. For these very reasons, we at the SDP Club believe that the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service must have autonomy in carrying out regular activities, which in 95% of the activities represent prevention and preparation in order to prevent major-scale accidents. We remind you that the goals that this Law intended to achieve were to identify rescue in unaccessible areas as a public need, and the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service as a carrier of activity. After 56 years of successful action, public authorities should finally be given to Croatia's rescue service, providing stable and unquestionable sources of funding as necessary for smooth functioning. Furthermore, the HGSS should be integrated into the system and all in order to ensure an important and growing public need in the Republic of Croatia. These amendments to the law do not integrate the HGSS, but I would say drowning in the system, public authorities are minimal. As amended, the final draft law seems more like an internal act by which the State Protection and Rescue Authority regulates the activity of a particular body than a law based on Article 12. The law on protection and rescue should regulate the regular activity of an independent national institution such as the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service. In the SDP Club, we believe that this proposed law on HGSS as opposed to other national institutions, the HGSS has not been given the authority to organise a rescue service in the mountains and in other non-accessible or difficult access spaces. And even his basic activity is yet to be carried out at the call of the center 112. In the proposal for a law in the first reading of Article 6, paragraph 3 reads: "Croatian Mountain Service for the Rescue of Search and Rescue Action also executes at the call of the Centre 112 and is obliged to report the same about the actions it has taken at the request of other bodies or natural persons. In the final draft of the law, Article 6 became Article 5 and the letter "i" was deleted without any reason. So item 3 is now read as follows: "Croatian Mountain Service for the rescue of search and rescue operations executes at the call of the Centre 112" means exclusively at the call of the Centre 112. It is indisputable that in the case of major accidents and disasters, the State Administration for the Protection and Rescue is a roof organisation that manages and coordinates all segments and services that form part of the system of protection and rescue, so that in cases of major scales and disasters, it manages and operates the HGSS as an integral part of the entire system. But in performing regular activities and they do as I have already said 95% of total HGSS activities should be left with as much autonomy as possible because only so can its action be maximumly effective. The SDP club considers it not an interest for the state to centralise and authorise everything regarding protection and rescue in the Republic of Croatia. The whole world is being decentralized. The countries transfer powers to local communities and non-governmental structures. The vision of a system of protection and rescue that is launched from a single centre in a bulky national body is not an interest in the unhappy and such a system of protection and rescue will certainly not be compatible with Europe. During the debate in the first reading, we also warned about the problem of helicopter rescue and solution that is proposed by the final bill is worse than the first version. To this end, Article 5(2), subparagraph 11 reads: "Organization of the transport of injured and sick persons and members of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service from mountains and other non-accessible areas and the submission of requests to the competent services for helicopter transport through the Centre 112" The part that was in the first version of the Bill of Law, where it was written, "except where the operator of the activity owns a helicopter and ensures the presence of members of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service." We don't understand why he insists on such a model when it's a completely non-European model, even harmful and expensive. Anyone registered in the Republic of Croatia and Europe for air traffic under international rules on air navigation can do all the work for their money and of course the cost. Anyone can co-operate with the HGSS, so if this remains a solution, the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service and the Croatian State will probably be the only one in which the National Mountain Rescue Service is yet to submit a request for the use of helicopters. The practice in Europe and the world is that contracters and financiers of helicopter transport can be insurance homes, private persons and all interested in paying for a helicopter and hiring a mountain rescue service to get the injured out of the unacceptable terrain. Mountain rescue and transportation of injured persons are necessarily related to helicopter transport. I would point out that members of the HGSS have international and Croatian helicopter rescue certificates. The proposed legal solution to the operation of the HGSS is related to the submission of applications to the State Protection and Rescue Authority, which unnecessarily complicates the entire rescue action, which can ultimately mean unnecessary loss of valuable time. One of the objectives of this law is to ensure stable and autonomous sources of funding so that the HGSS gets its clearly defined position in the budget and to obtain status according to the Croatian Fire Community model or the Croatian Red Cross. This is what we talked about and during the first reading, however, the applicant did not take into account the comments made by the SDP Club and the final proposal for this Law proposed a solution which sets out that the funds are provided in the state budget in the financial plan of the central authority of the State Administration responsible for the protection and rescue which is, in fact, an even more unfavourable solution than that in the first draft of the law which leaves those resources to be provided at the positions of other authorities of the State administration involved in the implementation of the protection and rescue programme in the non-accessible areas. If we remain this way, we are afraid that even when we adopt the State budget for 2007 we will have the same situation as all these years when we have warned that the funds for the HGSS in the budget are not available or the funds were secured at the health and social welfare positions and the Ministry of the Sea, tourism, transport and development but were not secured at the position of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue, or the HGSS had its precise position in the budget and they were not even in the projection until 2009. If the Government remains in this solution, we fear that the HGSS will continue to depend on someone's goodwill on which to determine how much funds will be allocated from the total amount for the purpose of this activity. As far as funding was concerned by the local administration units, it was only necessary until now. We know that today the situation is such that units of local administration are constantly trying to impose new obligations and impose and a good part of them are simply not able to finance all these obligations but there should consider how to include all units of local administration in whose area the HGSS station is operating according to their capabilities. For example, the situation in Split-Dalmatia County there is the county of Split-Dalmatia and the city of Split fully funded the Mountain Rescue Service of Split, although the station works most in the area of Sinja, Omis, Imotski, Vrgorca and even the island. I believe that these cities should be included in the financing of the Mountain Rescue Service in some way, so that those who now give all such things as the city of Split and the county and those who do not give anything would not be able to sense the new burden of financing. And in the end, we find it absolutely necessary and it is not at all questionable that the Mountain Rescue Service Act is necessary and necessary to pass. It was meant to be passed much earlier because these are people who, in any case, we will thank each other in the best way if we pass a proper law that will finally regulate this activity because I note that 50 and six years of sacrifice, behind them is a lot of action, we all admired them but they did not have a law on their actions. The SDP club has submitted several amendments. We believe that the government will consider them and will put them in the law in their best interest so that the final proposal will be as good as possible or as appropriate to this extremely important activity and the SDP Club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68840	Thank you very much. It's the HDZ Club, Mr. Ivan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68841	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Director of Croatian Service, colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen of the Mountain Rescue Service! I welcome you all very much. First of all, I thank the promoter for respecting the opinions of all clubs that the proposal for this law goes to second reading before the summer break and I think that the promoter in that part certainly deserves one commendation. Because there may be an accident tomorrow with irreparable consequences that the law could remove or reduce. This fact must not be ignored because it prevents dangers to the lives and health of people, personal and family tragedies, human and material losses and damages not only just justified but binding reasons to initiate such a procedure. The adoption of this law would show a responsible approach to the problem of public security in the entire territory of the Croatian State, respecting the unsustainable vital need of citizens, the protection of life and health, their families' property. The lack of this law is felt most by those who directly carry out actions of protection and rescue on the ground. This would respect the need of all participants in rescue operations, executioners, responsible persons in command posts that approve helicopter flights and all others. Better, painlessly and in time foresaw and resolve dangerous situations than doing the same to the pressure of the local public, media, family, insurance houses, associations, international communities and other interested entities if there is an accident in the Republic of Croatia that will not be found a solution. The number of accidents outside urban areas is growing year by year and the result is an increase in the number of participants in air, maritime land and changes in lifestyle and movement, modern tourism towards more active facilities in the open area, hunting, fishing, hiking, nauticals, diving, dragondom and other air dispute, rafting, skiing, climbing, mountain biking, etc. Citizens' awareness of the right to protection and major accidents outside urban areas is growing as well as the obligation of the state to provide them with an effective system of protection and rescue in the event of natural disasters and disasters. Soon, we can look to other countries for the responsibility of the citizens' suit against the state or the responsible. I'll give you an example from Slovenia. In the Republic of Slovenia, there has been a long delay with the adoption of similar regulations due to lack of training, compliance and obligations of procedures, and there has been a tragic accident in which five rescuers were killed and the accident could have been even greater. After the great media and judicial controversy, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in a rapid procedure adopted all the necessary regulations to regulate the application of helicopters, but since there were no such regulations at the moment, and this is now the case in Croatia, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia has reached a verdict and declared the guilty Slovenian Mountain Rescue Service because it participated in something that was not regulated and the state of Slovenia because it did not prescribe what it had to be. Members of the Slovenian Mountain Rescue Service and the Government of Slovenia still pay compensation to half the families of the victims. I will also give a personal example that happened in the year 96 in Croatian... It's the center of the Whitelights. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] MP Ćosic was then an assistant minister with a US military delegation, with senior officials, colonels of the Croatian military as part of UNPROFOR, snow was about two metres away, the ice crust was on the snow. There's been an accident that three men from the U.S. Army in the ice crust went into a break-in. It was about nine, ten o'clock in the morning. Because of the poor legal regulations, I am responsible for saying that these people, thanks first and foremost to General Cosic, were pulled out about 8 hours at night with the help of helicopters and all other means available that the Mountain Rescue Service from Ogulin and Karlovac had at its disposal. Then he was also injured by a member of the Mountain Rescue Service from Ogulin with a leg fracture, etc. The accident was avoided only thanks to the ability of the members of the Mountain Rescue Service and their basic engagement but legally unregulated. The man who broke his leg later had problems at his job. He didn't come to work, he was sick with a reduced salary, etc. and I think it is good that the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service has public authority and that such cases are regulated by this law. Protection and rescue is an unsustainable civilization's reach. The condition of a dignified life for citizens is a necessary prerequisite for the international compatibility of the Republic of Croatia. The lack of a system in the long term compromises the Republic of Croatia as a safe country for tourism, a place for international traffic, a place for life and investment in international capital. Croatian potentials would be compatible and consistent with international regulations and accepted standards. The relationship to human lives is a matter of every country's ethics. The Republic of Croatia as a state is required under the international agreements and conventions it has signed. By passing this law, everyone will benefit. A legal basis will be created for designing security and effective prevention, as the system of protection and prevention prevents accidents most effectively. The defence ministry that needs a search and rescue service in the troops, and 80% of its flights are carried out for the civilian sector. There's little regulation in these relationships. It can even be said that it was blocked because of the lack of this law. Tourism because the security and protection of citizens and tourists in a country is a basic condition for tourism development. Tourists expect the highest standards of rescue and care for their safety, air traffic as it must ensure the safety of air and other corridors, efficiency and international compatibility, a search and rescue system, which is impossible without the Gorska Rescue Service. The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry whose direct activity takes place mainly in open spaces outside urban areas such as the sea, mountains, livestock, forests and the like. Health protection and rescue in these areas is a necessary standard for the development of such activities. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports because GSS is a prerequisite for many outdoor sports and activities – skiing, hiking, rafting, canyoning, parachutery and other similar sports, hunting, fishing, nautical and similar. The finance ministry, because although rescue as an important public need is being financed from the budget, it has been the case so far. Rescue is charged mostly by means of insurance or international beatings everywhere in the world. In a completely undefined system, this has not been possible so far and Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service has in many cases been able to charge for it, and it had no legal basis for it. As for the law in the second reading, I absolutely support the amendment that he has submitted, and I will file with the other MPs that the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service can be intervened, put on the "and" that it can intervene without the call of the 112 Centre because directly the people are on the ground and there is an accident. They can't wait in the field for a call from the 112s center not to intervene. They are obliged by the Constitution to intervene and help these people, and certainly later inform that they intervened at 112 to know where and where they were. I think the motionary here by tomorrow's vote needs to get a little bit in line. Also, in Article 5(1), I propose that the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service organises to put and implement and promote, carry out rescue and protection activities in the mountains. With these changes, which I hope will be welcomed by the Croatian Democratic Community Club and will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68842	Thank you very much. We have one correction from Mr. Pera Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68843	Dear Mr. Vice President, I am correcting the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague because Mr. Krešimir Ćosic, General of the Croatian Army, was not an assistant minister but a deputy defence minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68844	Thank you very much. I knew it. On behalf of the HSP Club, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68845	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow Secretary of State, representatives of the Mountain Rescue Service. The HSP club is pleased with the fact that the proposer acted on our proposal to finally pass this law before the summer break so that one legal framework would finally have that the Mountain Rescue Service can act in good time, effectively and there is a huge number of reasons why we should have passed this law even before a series of years ago, a series of years ago. Because if we had brought it in, it would have been completely different, the situation would have been arranged, and I'm just going to tell you for a little bit that we've had this legal text before many of the accidents that happened wouldn't have been that scale. However, the Mountain Rescue Service could intervene in a timely and effective manner at that time. Let's say you all know in case it was only after four and a half hours of tip-off and the fact that the emergency intervention was confirmed was the workers of the Mountain Rescue Service finally managed to outsmart all the obstacles of the system, that from an unaccessible terrain they were extracting and transporting to the hospital a person who under all the rules of the profession and other circumstances could and had to be in the hospital after ten minutes. It's a case of a flyer in the Delta Wing of Dragons, so when it fell 500 meters high in the unaccessible area of the island of Brac. So you're in the Vida area upstairs. So if we had a legal framework, that wouldn't have happened. Also, the second case is very important. It was only after 4 hours after the tip, so with minimal coordination it could and should have been hired immediately by the Gorska Rescue Service at the same time as the tip. This is a special case for you when that accident occurred in the Presid area on Velebit. It was the same situation. So, the workers of the Mountain Rescue Service couldn't intervene in a timely and effective manner because there was no legal framework. And there are such cases a dozen of the least known to the general public, and most of all, the workers of the Mountain Rescue Service who because the Croatian Parliament means did not regulate this matter in due time, had to do so in various ways in order to do what was important, means to provide immediate assistance to people who have found themselves in such circumstances. And finally, because of this fact and because of all this and the 56 years of dedicated work, denial, means work that was based on a volunteer basis, without the necessary legal support. The HSP Club will certainly support this Final Bill proposal so that from now on, conditions will finally be created for systematic action and work and enabling, meaning timely action of the Mountain Rescue Service, but also of all factors that in the current way of action for various reasons because the procedure and bureaucracy were such that it took time and time to engage a helicopter, to engage this, to engage that one, and the employees were waiting. Guys, it was only a matter of minutes to save a human life. However, at the final proposal of the law of the Croatian Party club the right has submitted 4 we think quite an important amendment regarding the even better and more effective operation of the Mountain Rescue Service. Our first amendment refers to what Mr. Vukic said he would do. There is no need we have already made it, and that is the fact that Article 5(3) states that the Mountain Rescue Service can and can react to the call of the Centre 112. So you have a situation that they're in the field, they know, they've seen what happened or they've got a tip from someone else and now he'd, the Mountain Service has to wait for Center 112 to give a warrant. I think that's the situation we have to remove with just one "I". It means "i" to that part, which means it can act on its own when it determines that it needs to act automatically immediately. We also consider it important in Article 6 to add this part that the national holder of the activities of organising the rescue service in the mountains should have as public authority, not just as an activity. Because the Mountain Rescue Service has been working for 56 years and such an expression has been applied to other national operators, e.g. A Croatian red cross who is 13 years old. It would mean an item, organise a rescue service in the mountains and conduct training on training, seminars, courses for all specialities of mountain rescue according to a special programme, which brings the head of the central government responsible for protecting and saving the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service. So they do that part, and then they're probably the most invited thing to suggest it. It is also important that the power of the Gora rescue service to implement the first medical assistance decision under specific conditions, means mountains, speleological facilities, avalanches, etc. Because we know that this training is far more specific than what that training is now conducted by the Croatian Red Cross, but it is far more general. And we also consider it important to make a commitment to the authorities of the state administration of local and regional self-government, institutions and other legal and physical persons that they are in charge of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service, and in order to carry out basic tasks within its activities, the data and facts available within its work cycle, while the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service is obliged to protect their secrecy. So we know what kind of situation we're dealing with, for example. The river Cetina canyon, all kinds of data means so-called has HEP, the State Hydrometeorological Institute and all other institutions, and you and such data at a given time, so circumstances are very important, not to say by deciding that they can act in a timely and effective manner. Not to mention situations where they go to an area that is not yet demining and other similar situations. Therefore, they must have that information. And if they're marked by a certain kind and degree of secrecy, normally they'll have to protect them. And now that we're on our way to this part of the meaning of the Mountain Rescue Service, I have to say on behalf of the Croatian Party Club that the proposer must now make an effort to finally edit the entire protection and rescue system. Because our entire system of protection and rescue, and the Mountain Rescue Service is just one of the segments, the factors of this entire system can't do all this unless we have a built and organized whole system of protection and rescue. So far, all we have is the State Department for Protection and Rescue. We've got the 911 center, which means it's receiving information. But it is necessary to work on forces and resources in all situations where the system of protection and rescue has to work. Not to mention our situation in the field of civil protection. We know it was effective and good during the Homeland War and civil protection did its part. But unfortunately, the situation is now in the field of civil protection, not to say that at such low branches it can't be lower. Because that's not what the cities or the municipalities are really worried about, it's all thrown to the state level. The shelters are abandoned. Civil protection units, whether they're for general purposes, whether they're specialized, is a question of what the fulfillment is, what the training is, how they can intervene in certain situations. We're still waiting for a full solution to civil protection law. Thus, we live in a modern period of time when various both elementary and other disasters, unfortunately, have become a phenomenon. We know what the flood situation is like. We must then organise a Croatian army that can be legally involved, but only after helping the entire system of protection and rescue. So we only have one part of the important part, or two, we have the state administration that is coordinated from the state level. We have information through the 112s Centre but we don't have the power, we don't have the means of equipment for timely and effective action. And that's the part that the government really has to take care of. You know what the situation is about when fire protection is about engagement, participation, equipment and everything else. Not to mention some difficult cases, don't give God some terrorist activity where there can be chemical and some other hawara that can question the lives of a vast number of people and everything else. So this is just the beginning. We're passing, when we pass tomorrow this law we'll take a step forward, but an insufficient step given how much this area has been in the last 10 years essentially abandoned. What is the situation with the means, what is the situation with the equipment, what is the situation with the training of members of various parts of the protection and rescue service, what is the situation with the voluntary fire department. So, to all those factors that have to be timely equipped, trained for action, not to act for someone else and third, but to protect themselves means the lives of their fellow citizens, their families, and for effective action and action to prevent, in all such and similar situations, serious and adverse consequences of life, by standard, by health and all that is important for the functioning of systems of protection and rescue. We saw for ourselves that with this problem, let's say the United States of America had a problem when certain forces had to go to Iraq so that their other forces and resources didn't have for what happened to them. Therefore, it happens to far richer countries, and I say we have opportunities, we have strength, we have good experiences from the Homeland War where these factors of the protection and rescue system have effectively played their part in a timely manner and prevented far more harmful and inconspicuous consequences for the lives of people, material and other good. Therefore, we ask the Croatian Government to finally be responsible as it is here has been commended in due time, that this Law be finally passed, but that these parts regulate, but God forbid what happens, only then will we see how unprepared we are and where we are all missed and how great the gaps are, now that I am not saying some things that represent and kind of... Secrets. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68846	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Agent Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68847	Dear Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished representatives of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service, colleagues and colleagues. When a person without a legal framework and without adequate support from society has such a reputation in the past 56 years as the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service has then it is indeed one respectable piece that can be done under difficult conditions, and of course the conditions are harder when you do not have an adequate legal framework and qualified funding. Therefore, it is evident that during the past 56 years Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service has been able to create a great reputation that enjoys this society, precisely the fact that such a reputation exists and that, in the name of the HSS club, it has always been mentioned, there has always been additional resources in the resources of the Croatian Tourist Community and during all the debates, Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service has received one significant support, one always building those stairs that should be brought here, thank God that they have brought to the final proposal of the law which will certainly become more important in the modern way of life not only in the Republic of Croatia but also, manage to put into a quality legal framework and which will therefore have opportunities for quality expansion, for quality progress and for creating those circumstances that need society. Of course, if we remember the first reading of the bill, which was, of course, supported by all clubs, I think the final proposal will be the same case. However, there are some small deviations that I hold in mind that we can remove them through the debate and that we can fully agree on the Final Proposal of the Law. If we stick to the goals that were recognized in the first reading, it is to recognize saving in unaccessible spaces as a public need. I will note that these very non-accessible areas in the Republic of Croatia represent almost 80% of the space outside urban areas, but in these areas, in particular lately, partly because of the way of life, but partly because of the fact that tourism has simply not become, it is no longer an activity but a way of life. These spaces, these 80% of the space in the Republic of Croatia, represent very active areas where very live human activities take place from various intentions, from various impulses, but it is evident that each year these spaces are becoming more sensitive, in other words, there must necessarily be prevention, prevention as the most important thing in the work of the Croatian Mountain Service because it is only saving in circumstances that can be more often more difficult, the consequences of course are also catastrophic in some cases. Therefore, prevention is the word that needs to be used first and the meaning of this Law is actually and should be the creation of one atmosphere of prevention, one environment in which you know what you can, what you can't and that what you can't be allowed to be, means forbidden, which, of course, is not a case everywhere today. That is why the issue of public authority is one of the fundamental issues of this Law, and we think that if a colleague of Ingrid clearly allows it, it can lead to a single correlation of common understanding, and I believe that also the proposings, Mr Vice President, will well proceed unbound to one misunderstanding. Of course, the issue of funding is the second important lever of this Law, which must find very high-quality permanent foundations in this funding system, because clearly without the funding system we will not be able to master, regardless of the public authority we want. Is this Law on Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service in line with European models? Yes, he is in line, as is the Law on Protection and Rescue, and these are actually two laws that must be observed connected. They must be integrated. Of course, I don't think one should endanger another. Integrated means that they work fully together, and that the needs of citizens in maximum form are simplified so that you can get to the system of assistance in the simplest way and that this assistance must react spotlessly, precisely and precisely. It is a fundamental system on which protection and rescue are to be treated, and therefore this part regarding the Mountain Rescue Service should be treated. Of course, this does not mean that one should eat the other, but just that word integrates into the common system of complete spotting. I believe in the name of the HSS Club that we will be able to reconcile as I have said some of the ambiguities that have arisen and I think that most clubs have already been in this sense and manifested, especially in that letter "i" or in the fact that Croatia's rescue of search and rescue actions is carried out at the call of the 112 Centre to remain and it is possible that it can be carried out through a direct call sent to the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service. I think that with this competence 112 will in no way compromise itself and that we will remain at one of the operational options that enables Croatia's mountain rescue service to react promptly and of course it will report 112 back and that there will be this integrated closed system of information and action as usual. I personally believe that in this absolutely we can find ourselves and that there should not be any misunderstandings about it in the otherwise good bill of law. The second part would try to explain the public authority. In fact, public authorities are very important because of the very content of the Mountain Rescue Service because of the specificities of the maintenance of exercises, seminars, courses and everything that makes up the special programs that the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service prepares. And of course, in order to bring them the leadership of the Central Authority of the Protection and Rescue Authority, they should make one context within the framework of giving public authority to the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service, not only because the Red Cross has thirteen, because others have but simply because of the need for the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service not to be a ficus but rather to be the body we all advocate and, as we said, I believe that in this debate we can remove the reasons for these doubts and the dilemmas we have. The second question that the Croatian Peasant Party Club has otherwise referred as amendments refers to the provision of first medical assistance, of course under specific conditions, of course, in conditions where you do not have medical assistance at these premises, when you do not have a classic standard first aid, when you do not have a medical service to intervene. So everything happens in circumstances where classical normal rules are no longer time. So, some other rules apply, and there cannot come a doctor who simply has 120 kilos but can come a trained member of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service who is thin, who is ready physically, physically, mentally, and who knows how to provide first aid in these and such circumstances. I think it's actually the point of an intervention that we're going to be trying and we're going to suggest that it go back to that initial position that it was in the first reading, and we don't think there's any obstacle to that either in the Protection and Rescue Act or in any restriction that the Red Cross would be like the parent house that deals with it and that has this educational chain to find itself at risk. I don't think there's such a reason if we try to understand that it's really about specifics that you can't just pass on because they're intolerable. Therefore, members of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service have really specific conditions and specific knowledge in some way that needs to be obtained so that first aid and other medical assistance can be passed on to those who need it under special conditions. The third article or the 3rd amendment, so to speak, refers precisely to the prevention I was talking about. Namely, a matter of primary information, data, the fact that Croatia's mountain service should be equipped with when it comes to specific parts of our country, mountain information about where it is located, how it can be transported in case of some accidents. Local self-government as a body that has, in most cases, the largest number of information can provide the most support should be made available to Croatia's rescue service and this should be fully arranged. Whether someone or anyone can harm the secrecy of that information, whether someone can enter unauthorizedly. Well, that's always possible. In every variant you know there is the possibility of those who will do something that is not in accordance with the law, but of course there are sanctions that will then sanction them for it. Therefore, we cannot rule now, we will not give that information because someone can use it on purpose. I think we should give this information that the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service can have all the information that can help prevent anything from happening. And the question of those criminal provisions to the units of local self-government. I am not a supporter to the units of local self-government further burdened by costs, I am not a supporter to be laid down on them by all obligations that they can no longer bear in this centralised management mode. I am not a supporter of more tightening but I am a supporter of finding certain solutions in which units of local self-government, and we know someone has said that the city of Split is already very well co-operated and financially supporting Croatia's mountain rescue service, but I think there should be some frameworks because they are also the need for these local self-governments. So they are, in a certain sense, one resource that will be very well valorized, whether through tourism or through visitation, whether through the fact that you are safe. Today security is a first-class element of value on the market that, I say, can sell very well. To be sure today means to have the privilege of organising any economic activity and that safety is, in fact, one of the most important criteria for you to be able to deal with this activity. Therefore, nothing the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service gives without you being able to use it for it. So she gives a lot. Therefore, there is reason to return Article 25 to the final draft of the law and to try to find a framework in which the units of local self-government in their capabilities and with their specific means of assistance would be in some way structured into this common not only mountain rescue service but through the overall operation of these legal mechanisms in order to create a system that will primarily act preventively. This is how we, on behalf of the HSS Club, believe that we will indeed find a common position here and try to pass this law as a consensus or a law, a common law and thus thank you for 56 years of work on Croatia's mountain rescue service in these difficult conditions. The HSS Club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68848	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Zeljko Kurtov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68849	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, I think it would be fair to read the opinion of people who are directly interested in this issue that we have all received in clubs in the Croatian Parliament. And their opinion is this: there has been a change between the two meetings of the Assembly of Croatia's Proposal for a Law on the Mountain Rescue Service, which, in our opinion, is an important failure to pass the law. We recall that the objectives of the law were to identify the rescue in non-accessible areas as a public need, and the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service as the holder of the activities to give the Croatian service after 56 years of public authority, provide stable and unquestionable sources of funding. I'm not going to read any further because it's all lying down and the whole thing is a catch in a couple of articles of this Law. Article 4 reads: "Croatian Mountain Rescue Service is organised at the level of the Republic of Croatia. In the areas of the unit of local and regional, regional self-government is set up of Croatian Mountain Rescue Services stations, in further text based on common interest between local and regional/regional/ self-government units and Croatian Mountain Rescue Services." What does this mean? If local self-government does not agree with the Croatian mountain service station, it will not be. She won't fund it, she won't exist. I think the law should make it clear who's in charge and who's in charge and who's in charge of something if it's not done. You know that local self-government is burdened with many laws and is now still being passed, it is proposed that local self-government and finance Croatia's mountain rescue service. However, we have in Article 17: "The State Budget provides for the means to carry out the tasks of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service for the equipment and training of members of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service, international cooperation, information and publishing activities, the development of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service infrastructure, the implementation of the programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, plans, measures and activities from the protection and prevention activities. The resources referred to in Article 1 of this Article shall be provided from the State budget. In the financial plan of the central part of the state administration responsible for the protection and rescue, the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service is obliged to submit an annual work programme to the body referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article and to submit a report on the cost of the funds. From this we see that the State budget gives as much as it determines and must receive for this the programme of work of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service. And in Article 18, funds to finance the regular activities of Croatian Mountain Rescue Services stations are provided in the budget of units of local and regional/regional/self-government. Article 4.2 of this Act pays to the gyro-account of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service Station. The Croatian Mountain Rescue Service Station, paragraph 1 of this Article, is required to provide a unit of local and regional /regional/ self-government annual work programme and to submit a report on the spending of funds. As far as local self-government is concerned, it only gets a warrant to pay, however, the situation as it is today on the ground here we have seen from these accompanying documents that we have that only Split finances Croatia's mountain service and the cities that are gravitating the surroundings of Split simply may not be able to do so. So I think that in this law, you should stand up for the end of funding, and who's in charge of that funding? These amendments that my colleagues have proposed before me are fully supported because it is visible from these papers that we have received from the interested party that they are important and that they should be supported. However, as far as the Croatian Mountain Service is concerned, saving today's situation as important does not change the goal that we thought we would achieve that it will be independent, that it will be able to work further. We haven't freed her from further begging, and I think it's an equal big flaw in this law that we should simply try to correct and be fair to those people who sacrifice and their lives to save other lives. I don't think this funding is worthy and I think other sources should be taken or other sources of income should be invented that would be permanent so that this service can work regularly and successfully and devote itself to its jobs and not to begging around on various institutions and gifts and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68850	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Walter Poirot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68851	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with a colleague, colleagues and fellow MPs. The IDS Club welcomes the adoption of the Law on Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service, and we are convinced that these amendments, which have been tabled, will be very well considered and put in place a good part of the proposal for a new law. There have been some changes between the two readings of the law and some amendments to the proposal for a law on Croatia's mountain rescue service, which, in our opinion and also in the opinion of Croatia's rescue service, is a significant change in the objective of passing the law. We remind you that the objectives of the law were to identify the rescue in unaccessible spaces as a public need, and the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service as the holder of the activity. To give Croatia a mountain rescue service after 56 years of public authority, provide stable and unquestionable sources of funding as necessary for such an important need, integrate Croatia's mountain rescue service into the system, all in order to ensure important and already public needs in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, financing activities, and especially by the local community, remain optional. These changes to Croatia's mountain rescue service do not integrate but drown in the system, and public authorities are minimal. The law on the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service, which was to regulate and ensure the most important human public need to save lives by modeling European models. It is made up so that nothing changes or imposes any obligation on anyone. The gradual reduction of the original draft now looks more like the statute of an independent and optional organisation than the law based on Article 12. The law on protection and rescue should regulate the regular activity of an independent national institution such as the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service. In the first reading draft, Article 6 after listing the basic activities of Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service wrote this as well. Croatia's Mountain Rescue, Search and Rescue Service executes also at the call of Centre 112. In this proposal, the law that is before us now in Article 5, without any reason, has deleted the letter “and” and the text reads so. Croatia's Mountain Service for Rescue of Search and Rescue Action is being held at the call of Centre 112. We are proposing, and so are the workers of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service, that the article looks exactly the same as it was in the first reading, and it reads. Croatia's Mountain Rescue, Search and Rescue Service executes also at the call of Centre 112. For what? Because rescues are a regular activity for Croatia's mountain service and its name, such as the fire extinguishing activity of firefighters, and the care of injured and sick regular emergency medical care activities. Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service, which for 56 years has launched and saved everyone and everyone under quotes, should not wait for a call from the Centre 112 at anyone's call, although such a call may never arrive because there is often no signal in the areas where the Mountain Rescue Service operates, and in dramatic seconds, the workers of the Mountain Rescue Service should let us do our job for which we exist. This means that, according to its own assessment, it is necessary to respond immediately, remove the dangers, execute search and rescue and without the intervention of Centre 112. There was a ski resort recently and a theoretically higher accident. So we're talking about the Golden Bear in 2005. If all were to go to 112 members of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service, they would only spend half the time available to receive the call. According to the Rescue and Protection Act, Article 37 of the Single Operational Communication Centre 112 receives all calls related to emergency and accident and disaster threats, and through means of links, on the basis of standard operating procedures, hastily reporting all competent services and coordinating the action by invitation. So, when the activities of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service are autonomous, there is no need to condition the execution of its actions with Centro 112 DUZS's competence for major accidents and the disasters are undeniable, and only two or more entities can be coordinated. Furthermore, we propose that paragraph 1 of Article 6 of the public authority referred to in the paragraph reads. He organizes a rescue service in the mountains and conducts training, training, seminars and courses for all specialties of mountain rescue according to a special programme, which brings the head of the Central Authority of the state administration responsible for protecting and saving, and because the national organisation and activities of the Mountain Rescue Service should have as public authority not only as an activity, because the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service has indeed established and organised this service in Croatia and has successfully covered the public need for 56 years, mainly because such expression is common in European countries, in the Mountain Rescue Service and for other national operators. For example, the Croatian Red Cross, which has 13 public powers among other things, organises the Service of Water Life Rescue and Ecological Protection of Coastal and Environment, training rescue workers to work in the service, keeping records and issuing their beliefs about training, and organises the renewal of knowledge and verification of the physical ability of the savior every third year of Article 9. The Croatian Red Cross Act. We also propose a new paragraph 2 conducts first medical assistance training under specific conditions. So in the mountains, speleological objects, avalanches, etc. Under specific programmes adopted by the Minister of Health and Social Care on a proposal from the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service, Article 6(2). In relation to the original draft law in Article 6(1), it is unnecessary to delete the quote: “and to provide the first medical aid in the mountain. ” The public authority of the Croatian Red Cross will not be threatened by the proposed expression. Namely, the Croatian Red Cross train citizens for first aid in everyday life, in education, in traffic and in major natural and environmental and other accidents with the consequences of mass injuries, epidemics and armed conflicts, Article 9. The law on the Croatian Red Cross. But also without specific knowledge and skills from first and medical assistance in the mountains and in specific conditions. The implementation of this training is necessary because Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service is an extended emergency medical assistance arm which ensures that healthcare is available and where other public services, individuals and institutions cannot act. Where the Mountain Rescue Service works, there is no other medical aid or first aid. There are no medical institutions or the Croatian Red Cross. Therefore, mountain rescuers and their doctors would not even be who they are if they had no specific knowledge and skills to provide first aid. As a result, other countries in our environment have authorized the example of the Republic of Italy to carry out training, even for doctors of emergency medical care. It is about very specific skills and knowledge, and the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service is the national institution of mountain medicine whose doctors are known, recognised by world associations. Furthermore, Article 12 of the ex-post intervention rejected paragraph 3 which reads: "The bodies of the state administration, local and regional, i.e. regional self-government, institutions and other legal and physical persons are obliged to deliver information and facts within the framework of their activities to the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service, and the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service is obliged to protect their secrecy.". We suggest that this item be returned to the legislative proposal because this would be the purpose of this law annulled. Create conditions for the safe and efficient operation of Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service. Without certain data, the safety of the rescuer can be compromised, and the search and rescues are inconclusive. If, for some reasons, it cannot remain the same statement, according to our proposal, it could read as follows: "Croatian Mountain Rescue Service within its activities, local or regional authorities, institutions and other legal and natural persons, may request data and facts which they have in the context of a part-time operation, which are necessary for the safe implementation of its basic tasks. The Croatian Mountain Rescue Service is obliged to protect their secrecy.". For what? Because without some data, from institutions, but also from natural persons, successful rescue will continue to be very difficult. And the security of members of the Mountain Rescue Service may be compromised. So far, the Mountain Rescue Service has had to save, and most often in the most difficult and very risky conditions, without being authorized to request and obtain the most ordinary weather forecast from the State Hydrometeorological Institute. For complex and risky rescues from canyon rivers, without e.g. without information on the openness or closure of the dams with which HEP can be directly threatened by the outcome of rescue and the lives of the rescuers themselves. For complex missing persons, it is crucial to have information about the condition of a lost person, an example of the number of cell phones, etc., as this depends on the whole concept of search and work of a lifeguard on the ground. We at the club of the Istrian Democratic Assembly welcome the adoption of the Law on the Mountain Rescue Service and that Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service is beginning to act as it does. And I hope that the amendments submitted will be accepted to improve the bill and contribute to the impact of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68852	Thank you very much. According to Article 207, the time for application of 10 minutes has elapsed. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Ms. Vesna Skara Ozbolt. She's gone. He's losing his right. Then, Madam Representative Ingrid Antičevi Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68853	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. This Final Proposal for the Law on the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service is unfortunately a worse version of that first reading. Now, we, for the best, have proposed a whole series of very concrete proposals, right on the trail of people who are doing rescue, who are exposing their lives to save others. However, there is no such thing as a ban on reformation institute for the government, so the government can do, in spite of the observations submitted, the proposals can also make the original text worse. That's what's a little disappointed. Although I must say that precisely because of such a need as Mrs. Jagoda Martic said, speaking on behalf of the SDP club, I will support this proposal. First of all, and because of those I say people who act so self-securely, who expose their own lives so selflessly to save other people, not asking who they're talking about. And that's something that fascinates and needs to fascinate us here and all the public. However, are we on track to allow these people, first of all, and their safety, when they so selflessly expose their own lives, to be at a certain height, and ultimately, they can gain the goal that makes them so selfless and selfless. In this proposal, it states that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional resources from the state budget. However, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, it was necessary to determine how much resources were needed to implement this law, and then perhaps to specify and say from where, as is part of the reasoning and to state that it has so far been provided through other institutions. But then they had to be united and told what amount it was. Then they would certainly remove this objective objection of the administratively self-saving people that these sources are not transparency, although they see that they are neither permanent nor stable. Therefore, in short, they do not know what means to be available. In addition, the provision of Article 25 of the Transitional and Final Provisions states that within 6 months with the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service, the units of local self-government will establish a common relationship, conclude an agreement that will determine the existence of common interest in the operation of the station and regulate the way and conditions for its financing. So here is another bill that burdens the budget of local self-government units without any decentralised funds. So it's one big difficulty and one big remark that the funds not for funding are not transparent and the question is whether they will be enough. With these amendments, therefore, which apparently deteriorated in the first draft of the law did not explicitly establish this service, the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service as an independent service. It really acts as some kind of exposure, that is, some kind of small administrative state service organization, or State Protection and Rescue Administration. She did not get the power to save in the mountains, difficultly accessible areas, and indeed, which is exactly what our colleague Martic is warning us on behalf of the SDP club that they will have to do contrary to European, almost all European models must therefore address the call of the centre 112 so that they can act and that they can react to helicopter rescue at all. These are all problems, I think there may be a time if the Proposer had a good will to make this right I say everything on behalf of all those people who act there, who so selflessly say expose their own lives, expose themselves to their own death to save a man. Such needs and for such action will be more and more, first of all, not only because Croatia is a tourist country but because more and more of our tourists are not passive, they are just not lying in the sun, they are not just swimming in the sea, they are attracted to our beauty. So, they exhibit their own lives and often the opposite of the recommendations, and often the recommendations of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue, and surely then on the contrary and appeal of this Croatian Mountain Rescue Service that is being established, but still despite such and irresponsible behaviour that they will surely be obliged to do so. Therefore, here I will support this proposal, but it would be wise of the promoter to have these remarks above all that come not only from us as opposition but from these very people be respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68854	Thank you very much. It's Mrs. Irena Ahel's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68855	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, Director of Administration, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of my presentation, I would like to express my satisfaction that the final proposal of the Mountain Rescue Service Act is already being discussed at this session at the beginning of the tourist season. The mountain rescue service is extremely important and with its activities the safety of tourists who are increasingly spending their active vacations in both extreme and dangerous sports. In addition, the Mountain Rescue Service provides all sports climbing competitions, mountain bike races and all major ski resorts in Croatia. During 56 years of their existence, in the most difficult conditions and inaccessible places, they saved many human lives. People who do not save their lives and save their lives to help others certainly deserve respect and care, so I welcome the provision of this Law, which allows them, if they are in a working relationship, to participate in the intervention during working hours, to be entitled to remuneration in the wages paid by a member in a working relationship. Also members of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service who are not in a working relationship and participate in the intervention have the right to compensation at the level of the average net salary paid in the Republic of Croatia for a proportional number of days of participation in the intervention. The conditions and situations in which the mountain rescue service operates are very often extremely difficult, and people who are being rescued are very often seriously injured, and often minutes are about saving people's lives, so the ability of rescuers to provide assistance is also of paramount importance. Also due to the inaccessibility of the terrain on which the injuries occurred very often require transport by helicopter to the nearest medical service. The law stipulates that the rescue service organises the transport of injured and sick persons by requiring competent helicopter transport services through the centre of 112. It is good that such actions are carried out through the centre 112 because we often know that rescues are attended by firemen, police, first aid and others other than the mountain rescue service. In this way, all the necessary rescue factors are animated and co-ordinated, but this should not be excluded from the operation of the service and without the call of the centre 112, so I support the amendment spoken by my colleague Vukic on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club. In order to prevent tragedies, it is necessary to act preventively, so Article 12 is prescribed that the organizers of sports, tourism and other activities in mountainous and other non-accessible areas are obliged to announce the place of maintenance of activities at least 8 days prior to maintenance and ensure the presence of members of Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service in accordance with the common risk assessment. I have pointed out only some of the positive aspects of this Law, and I am pleased that after 56 years the work of the Mountain Rescue Service will be regulated and I support the adoption of this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68856	Thank you. On behalf of Mr Mario Zubović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68857	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Protection and rescue of citizens and tourists and property and the natural environment is of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia and enjoys its particular concern. Recognizing this particular interest, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken a number of measures to organise, establish a single system, protect and rescue to bring together different systems in a unique organisation of protection and rescue. The National Protection and Rescue Authority and its initial functions are established through the Fire Department, Civil Protection, a unique number for emergency situations 112. Of the 20 county centers 112 so far, 11 has been modernised, and soon the remaining 9. It's a necessary step before introducing new technology for 112. A crisis management process has been launched in case of major accidents and disasters, which has proved effective over the past year. I point out only some examples of coordinated action with the happiness of smaller actions. Floods in eastern Slavonia, pollution of Neretva in Bosnia and Herzegovina and at the same time in Strahišnica near Krapina asparagus pickers in Istria and a mountaineer in Dalmatia. It's all over successfully. Therefore, the State Administration for Protection and Rescue in the event of major accidents or disasters coordinates the activities of all services of protection and rescue provided by the Protection and Rescue Act, means emergency police assistance, firefighters, mountain service, Kinological Union, the Croatian Red Cross and others. Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service is part of the overall civil protection force and thus the entire system of protection and rescue within the framework of the State Protection and Rescue Administration's resorient action. Through operational integration into the overall system of protection and rescue, the mountain service will have its place in the state budget and will act systematically as such with the logistical support of the state administration. In this year's budget of the Gora National Rescue Service, a million and 400 thousand kuna were secured and for the first time in five years, all members of the service in co-operation with the MORH carried out training and selection for helicopter operation. As a national potential, the Mountain Rescue Service is in the mountainous and inaccessible areas of the irreparable rescue link. The areas of work of the service are often other than mountainous and shaded parts of the urban environment as well as other non-mountan areas. These are actions at sea, on high facilities, tunnels, pits and pipes in traffic accidents and in a number of extreme sports. All abilities were verified through numerous exercises this year organised by the State Protection and Rescue Administration. In the rescue actions, the most important time to react is, in the shortest time, to carry out search and rescue actions, to launch the technical ability to communicate with the unhappy, to communicate in the language of the unhappy, to quickly engage additional field vehicles and helicopter services. In the first half of this year alone, members of the mountain service acted in thirty-seven search and rescue actions. In these actions, mainly on difficult access grounds, they were rescued or certain, search was carried out for lost and missing and there was also action to save lives and prevent pollution. This is a seemingly small number of actions, however it is important to take into account that the mountain service has only 360 members of volunteers, specialistly trained rescue workers recognised and outside the borders of the country who are specially trained in mountain rescue techniques including helicopter rescue. All these actions took place voluntarily during the weekend and with the sacrifice of free time to save someone's life. A special recognition should be given for such action and for the members of the mountain service. The distressed call for assistance was mostly sent to the nearest county center of 112. However, when the call for assistance was sent directly to the mountain service, it subsequently informed the local centre 112 about the actions launched and the 112 county centre took over the activation and coordination of the activities of the necessary forces to protect and rescue local firefighters, hunters, searchers of the kinological alliance and even the military so that the members of the mountain service could continue without interruption to act on the ground. Other security and rescue forces could be more quickly involved in the coordination of the 112 County Centre in action including helicopter engagement. If this is all such a question, then why should this special Law on the Croatian Mountain Service, given that action has so far taken place under the already passed Protection and Rescue Act. However, this law further highlights the construction and development of a national protection and rescue system by strengthening associations of particular interest, such as the mountain service, which is, among other things, an important support for the development of other areas and the overall economy and, above all, further development of tourism and movement in the transit of people and goods through Croatian roads. It gives the impression of a safe country through the role of mountain service as prescribed by this law. The development of tourism spreads rapidly from the coast to all parts of the interior and covers increasingly different forms of diversity in ways of using tourist offers, which includes the development of extreme activities in extreme conditions on such difficult accessible terrains. The circumstances of everyday life and occupation are becoming variable. The opening of roads is important for the shortened time and route of arrival to interesting destinations not only for domestic but foreign tourists, and not only for vacations but weekends. This extends the tourist season practically throughout the year. In fact, citizens go out in nature insufficiently equipped for planned holiday activities and this increases the risks and in such situations it is necessary for the mountain service to act educationally and preventively as a professional basis for special-authorisation rescue actions. The above mentioned interests of individuals should be added to the need to educate the organizers of excursion activities and various sporting events. Namely, good and professional preparation of the organisers can reduce accidents and injuries and increase the chances of effective protection and rescue actions and the timely taking of all measures to prevent unwanted events. Number of more than a million visitors of national parks and nature parks and number and type of sports competitions in the so-called so-called so-called “Nature parks” Extreme sports are growing year by year. This law therefore regulates a special part of the regular activities of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service and is recognised as an activity of particular interest for the Republic of Croatia. However, as part of the rescue forces according to a standardised procedure at the shortest possible time in the system of state protection and rescue can be engaged in carrying out tasks of protection and rescue as a special national resource in the event of major accidents and disasters. In this way, on the security of people in non-urbanised areas, Croatia will ensure compatibility with other countries, define safety standards, strengthen activities in the field of prevention and security and rescue conduct quality, professional and trained forces and through systematic solutions. Finally, as a highly trained and equipped force, part of the members of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service as a national potential will plan to participate in the assistance that the Republic of Croatia will provide to other countries affected by disasters and major disasters. The adoption of this law is in the national interest and its application unites the contribution of Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service to further development of priority tourism, transport and special forms of sports activities and gives a new dimension and capacity for new destinations and forms of use of national wealth in tourism but in a safe way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68858	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68859	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. This Law by my personal court is a good example of how we can do nothing or little from a good idea and truly objective needs in Croatia. In any case, every law, the quality of the law and its implementation depends on the finances. As they would say to me in Međimurje, "The penezes are part of it." This law provides for a combination of decisions on where and whether to open the Gorge Rescue Service stations on the basis of common interest are determined by municipalities, cities, counties and the Mountain Rescue Service. So Prime Minister Sanader's government has embarked on a decentralisation process and allows local self-government to establish a common interest in the establishment of such cells with one association that receives public authority. But then it's normal that when a local self-government makes such a decision it has to give money for it. The constitutional provision now that the level of income of municipalities, cities and counties must be proportionate to their obligations. When we write the law that we lay down our obligations, we somehow remain in the second plan and forget the fact that the issue of the obligations of municipalities, cities and counties being made during the financial year is simply and impossible to implement. Because this would require either budget rebalancing or reducing the resources of some other expenditure. This law, however, provides that some of the activities will be financed from the state budget, such as the equipment and training of members of the Mountain Service, international co-operation, information and publishing activities, infrastructure development and implementation of the Government programme, plans, measures and activities from the protection and rescue activities. So the government has protected itself in a way that will finance what stems from its programme, plans and measures, however, when it comes to the obligation of local self-government, then the law gives a strange solution. The Mountain Rescue Service is delivering a programme to units of local and regional self-government, which is required to finance the programme. Who's adopting this program? The representative body, I do not believe that a good solution would be a headship because after we have passed this Law on the direct election of the headship, there will be no more if we vote on it because we have been waiting for a month or two months. After the conclusion, the debate is that we finally pass that law. So who will adopt this programme that needs to be financially monitored from the state budget? I note this because this place opens up the possibility of major conflicts, ambiguity, different interpretations of legal regulations, we give the local self-government the right to decide on it on its own. It shall not affect the content of the programme for which the financial resources must be provided. How much money should the Sibenik-Knin County secure? How many Zadars? The coastal-goranska? Međimurska? What is the amount of funding involved in the implementation of this Law, which should be secured by local budgets and when? I fear that from the Mountain Rescue Service, because of the way we finance, we will make the Mountain Service a proposal that will never know and have guarantees that funds will be provided for those programmes that they have prepared, which have even been accepted, which are objectively needed but the money will not be. According to the law, 79% of tourists come to Croatia for sports, recreation, skiing, hiking. And why not discuss those who enjoy the fruits of this tourism with the obligation to finance such services? Why should not all those who have accommodation tourists also be obliged to follow a public service financially? In addition, the Commission notes that, in the light of the above, the Commission considers that there is no need for a public service provider to be able to carry out its tasks. So I appeal to the promoter to reconsider the proposed way of funding once again because this way as described in the law first does not guarantee that we will have where the most needed mountain rescue services stations are because it is not mandatory and the second does not guarantee a permanent, stable and well-known source of funding so that the Mountain Rescue Service can work and operate according to its programme. It will be threatened in financial terms and during the financial years it will be uncertain, it will not be able to recruit the required number of people. The Mountain Rescue Service is about matters of public interest and imagine that this is the way we make funding to protect against fire, for fire. For emergency medical attention. For civil protection. Therefore, if all the other parts of the rescue have been solved permanently and well-known funding, then that is how we must address the issue of financing the Mountain Rescue Service. These are the reasons why I will not support this bill unless the Government accepts the proposed amendments or that we should not allow our amendments to people who have worked as volunteers so far to convince them that we are now permanently solving their way of funding and that we are aware that this is not the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68860	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament allow us to welcome from the gallery for an official visit to the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament is the delegation of the Croatian National Council from Vojvodina and Serbia, so please welcome them. Replicated representative Pero Kovacevic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68861	Well, Your Honor, Mr. President, I disagree with Mr. Lesar's full exposure. He said that how the law will be implemented depends, law enforcement depends on funding. In this case, it is not so much about funding because Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service first receives a legal framework that all those barriers that have existed so far in all their actions are regulated legally, and that means that they will not wait for someone who has to do so in due time and in full that they will or will not do so at all, and in this way the assumption is already being made that all their actions are timely, effective and prevent the production of far more harmful and inexplicable consequences. When we had that word, I was speaking on behalf of the club four, five examples where the very indiscretion in terms of their legal authority made it unfortunately that for certain actions it took four and a half, five or six hours. Certainly, the Mountain Rescue Service must have a special position within the framework of the state budget relating to its activities and its financing. But certainly the municipalities and cities, if they want to be municipalities and cities, must give something in the position of protection and rescue. Now, of course that depends on one whole reform of the entire tax system and everything else. Because listen, the municipalities and the cities can't just look for what's good for them. Well, when something needs to be done that costs money, then it's not very desirable. We can't talk like that, but I agree that we should go to full tax haven reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68862	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68863	Thank you very much. I'm trusted I'm really surprised and sad that my colleague Kovacevic disagrees with the whole of my debate. But once again I look, I look deeply at the provisions of the law, and my dear colleague Pero says that municipalities, cities and counties must give if they want something. But every month we pass laws that municipalities, cities and counties have to give something and keep telling them you have to give. But then we have to give it to them, and that's in the Law on the financing of local self-government and we didn't give it to them. But we tell them they have to give the others a colleague of Kovacevic. That's what this is about. They have as many as they have, and we order them to have a higher number of subscribers each day that they have to give. Now, once we have to stop and say, we've ordered you 12 new donations. We are now increasing your original income by 5.6.8 or 10% and whether only municipalities and cities from their resources must give. Is it only in their interest that the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service works. Those who make profits, those who don't do everything they have to do, and that's why people... They don't have to give anything, but municipalities, cities and counties have to give. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, the point is, when we determine the obligations of local self-government, we have to say where they're going to give, how much they're going to give, not guessing. Not by uncertainty, not by free estimates, not by political arbitration and decision, but by law prescribed the amount of funds such as fire protection, emergency medical aid and civil protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68864	The second replica, the respected representative, Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68865	So I think this is important what my colleague Lesar warned me about and I'll be free to quote part of Article 137. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which says the revenues of the units are local, regional regional self-government, must be seen by their powers as provided for by the Constitution and by law. Therefore, if we make a commitment to the local self-government unit, and yesterday we discussed a package of health laws in which we make huge obligations to units of regional self-government because they have to settle the debts of hospitals and other hospitals, and they cannot affect their costs. Here we create new obligations for local self-government units. Then it is certainly necessary to bring a source of funding for these funds. It cannot be done what is done in this part of protection and rescue when we have passed the Protection and Rescue Act and we have also said that units of local self-government will have to provide means of protection and rescue. We said in the Civil Protection Act that a certain part of the budget must be allocated for civil protection. A certain part of the budget of the local self-government unit must be allocated for fire. Now here we are talking about how it must be singled out for the Mountain Rescue Service. We do not doubt that it should be, that it should be functional and equipped, but we are simply opposed to constantly imposing new obligations on local self-government units, and that the state thus reduces its allocations for these public needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68866	Well, you're replicating, you've reached out for the replica of the representative, Lesar, and you answer, you're co-responsing with Agent Kovacevic. Well, I don't know what kind of replica that is anymore! Well, you should have referred to him then and replicated him. I think you're up for... A colleague of Kovačević's.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68867	Well, Mr. President, you reacted, and that's a clear violation of Rule 209 because he's replicated Lesara, and he's talking to me. And besides, Article 137 was when he was in power, so he did nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68868	Please! Honorable representative of Pearl Perman. Here you go. And from where you now have an answer to the replica when... Well, I know. Did you get that? Here you go. I don't mind, but I didn't... My colleague Mršić, please. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Let's not. Who's the name? Happy birthday to Peter and Paul.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68869	A colleague Mršić has well located the problem of how local authorities respond when they have to finance something. No money, no money, no penis. That's right, Mr. Butan. And what the law means is if a municipality or a city or a county doesn't have the money to serve something and what it means to you is the Constitution if there's no money to finance something and we assure people and we assure their representatives that it will now be honey and milk for them and say we have passed the law. They need a law for a framework, and they need money for laws. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68870	Honorable representative of Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68871	Thank you very much, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. We already agreed in our first reading on how important this topic is for Croatian society today, so I would like to say a few words about it. Given the fact that the Mountain Rescue Service has so far not been regulated by a special legal solution but its role and funding has been indirectly resolved by other legal acts, and funding through several different budgetary items of this bill should be the last cube in the mosaic, which is also regulated by the legislation of the Republic of Croatia today by this much needed service. However, the lack of this final proposal, but in the presentation of the club, Jagoda Martic, she drew attention to certain shortcomings in this final proposal, so I hope that they will be removed by accepting the amendments submitted in order for this important service to get the place it plays in the functioning of society and belongs to it. The most important reasons why this service is necessary are given in the light of the draft law. However, I want to take advantage of the occasion and remind myself of some who refer to me as the closest segment of human activity, which is sport. In addition to the classical of previously known sports activities such as skiing, hiking, alpinism, fishing, hunting, running and walking, and so on in recent years, many sports related to extreme challenges and excitements that require top-level physical preparation, but also carry with them an extreme dose of risk and danger to life. These are air sports, for example dragonry, paragliding, paragliding, then off the road racing of car drivers, mountain bikes and motorcycles, sports on wild waters such as rafting, cocoa, canoeing and not counting further. There are also dangers that threaten many scientific workers and researchers of natural resources, flora and fauna of our mountainous regions. It is unnecessary to stress the importance, scope and importance of the Mountain Rescue Service in planning, organisation and implementation of activities in all areas which are not urbanised, as well as its role in the event of accidents. For example, just in the last few months, in the debates about nature parks, we have mentioned more and more tourist and sports activities that are being carried out in order to enlarge the time and give guests an experience, not just natural beauty. This law must address the issue of financing, define the tasks and powers of the Mountain Rescue Service. Therefore, it must be a way to achieve its better efficiency and to achieve the most important objective, to improve the security of citizens, who carry out their own sports, tourism, scientific, research and other activities in the unregulated areas that pose a potential life-threatening danger to them. In order to achieve this objective, it is necessary to install the proposed amendments into the law. Although I did not say anything particularly spectacular and new, I had the need to support this law in this way, of course with the proposed amendments to allow citizens to stay as often and as comfortable as possible in nature with as much security as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68872	Thank you. Dear representative Zdenka Babić Petricevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68873	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Mountain Rescue Service specializes in saving mountains, rocks, speleological facilities and other non-accessible places when special expertise needs to be changed, use rescue equipment in the mountains, and in our mountain, they certainly have. They've been taking care of the safety of citizens and guests since 1950, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. The service is currently made up of the most prepared Croatian climbers, speleologists, and high mountain climbers and skiers who are specially trained in providing first medical assistance and trained for all techniques of mountain rescue, including helicopter rescue. The service has about 360 members of the Czech family of 20 doctors and 12 instructors. Under such conditions, they have proved their will, responsibility, determination, and knowledge and write results. In their many-year term, there are more than 3,000 actions so far. Since all my predecessors spoke on behalf of clubs or individuals about the proposed law that hopes will soon enter into force, they will also change the conditions under which our experts from the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service are working today. And I will not repeat myself, so allow me from the book of the Croatian Mountain and quote something where the writer Poljak describes Velebit, Dinara and Biokov and these beautiful women as beautiful and unreachable as well as dangerous. The mountainous possibilities on Velebit, inexhaustibility, are inexhaustible and diverse. Velebit is the largest mountain in Croatia. Its special features are the richness of karst shape, contrasts of coastal and land slopes, unity of land and sea, botanical and zoological very good and numerous approaches to 500 km of forest roads, 15-mile of private facilities. However, they are so beautiful that they are the most beautiful part in both our country and far beyond. Mr. Poljak described Dinara the following way. Its bulky mass that rises as a natural border between Dalmatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina is the entire road insurmountable to two different walls, Mediterranean and continental. In his history, he had special meaning from the creation of our country’s first, and we can especially commend him in the Homeland War where it was stationed VII. The brigade. However, these beauty will certainly record both its historical part and the Homeland War. So now let me read how Mr. Poljak described Biokovo. The giant mountain chain of Dinarida has not come anywhere near the sea as high as Biokow. I have seen from the sea an impressive facade with rocks, liqueurs, cleaves and towers deeply appear to every passerby. However, Mr. Poljak described so beautifully and they are so beautiful in reality, but they are, this beauty is for many often and dangerous. In the hope of following this law that all conditions will be improved, that the article that I am going to quote, paragraph 12, "According to the request of Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service at visible places in its facilities, "the providers of accommodation services will be obliged to place warnings and other information relating to the safety of persons during their activities in mountainous and other non-accessible areas, where necessary.". Unfortunately, these warnings aren't exactly where they're supposed to be. So here I accept this law fully with the amendments of the Croatian Democratic Community club, in the hope that the conditions will be better, different and that every piece of our beauty will be accessible not only to tourists and foreigners but to us because we need to know our beauty.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68874	Dear Representative Marian Bekavac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68875	I would like to thank Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The final proposal of the Law on the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service is on the agenda today. With this legislative proposal, Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service is integrated into a unique national system of protection and rescue as the holder of rescue activities from its own region. This Act defines the content, scope and manner of carrying out the tasks of the mountain rescue service, its cooperation with international organisations, state administration bodies and other natural and legal persons. The proposed legislative proposal will enable Croatia's rescue service as an active safety factor to prevent more effective and effective threats to safety, the occurrence of accidents or the escalation of such events. It is certainly necessary to put an emphasis on education and prevention in order to predict and prevent adverse events with tragic consequences in time. Security is certainly an important segment of Croatia's tourism perception in the world, so there is no need to stress the importance of tourism for Croatia, but in order to maintain and raise a tourist offer to a higher level we need to raise and safety both our citizens and many tourists fascinated by Croatia's beauty, and this Law certainly contributes to this. Croatia as a unique combination of the sea of karst phenomena, the island, has great potential in the development of recreational and adventurous tourism that raises adrenaline. Under these extreme conditions it is expected to increase the number of accidents due to an increasing number of tourists staying in Croatia. Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service finally has a legal framework for its action and will be better committed to its elemental task, which is to protect and save human lives in extreme conditions. The adoption of this Act will ensure compliance with European and international regulations, regulate the activities of the areas in which the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service operates, define the content, scope and manner of carrying out its tasks and the financing of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service as a public service that carries out its interest in the Republic of Croatia. This Law will give the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service the necessary public powers to effectively implement prevention, planning and preparation and ensure the efficiency and safety of rescue participants. Responsible and professional implementation of the measures will be ensured for forecasting, evaluation and analysis, prevention and action in non-accessible areas, and public service will be provided to many economic, tourist, sports, cultural and other activities. I believe that this bill is a systematic basis that will benefit all top alpinists, speleologists, mountain climbers and doctors, members of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service, as well as all those who will use their services. And in conclusion, I support this law that will certainly contribute to the overall public security of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and our guests who visit in large numbers our beautiful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68876	Thank you. Dear Representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68877	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Unfortunately, until the accident occurs, until the tragedy occurs, we are not aware of the importance of such an organization as the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service. As long as lost human lives do not remind us very often we do not do everything we should and therefore I hold that this debate today is very important because it is a very important law which is very important to the safety of not only Croatian citizens but also many tourists who come to the Republic of Croatia, especially in its most beautiful parts of the Croatian mountain, and for this occasion, I want to remember in this debate a particular one I will not say an incident, but unfortunately the accident that has almost become a serious tragedy. It happened in 1996 when a group of senior US officers spent the day of skiing on Bjellolasica in extremely difficult, unfortunately, risky conditions that they were not fully aware of. A US military colonel who was normally a ski instructor practically in his first descent from the top of the Whitelight in conditions that were inappropriately injured, flew off the track, flew off into a wreck, and after a few hundred meters stopped in a tree with broken ribs, torn hips, etc. And unfortunately, it was the beginning of a tragedy that spread from hour to hour and became more serious, I would say more dramatic. It was around 11:30, it was Sunday, it was very low temperature, and it intervened in the mountain rescue service from Ogulin. Unfortunately, the conditions were risky, the ice on the track, and instead of saving the man, there were several new injuries. The break-in was quick enough for people from the Mountain Rescue Service from Ogulin. After that, we also called for a mountain rescue service from Karlovac. It happened a lot like that. Somewhere this afternoon, given that I was somehow the oldest, the most responsible we found ourselves in a situation where we had five or six people who were in life-threatening conditions, wounded, injured, and almost the situation was impeccable, I would say of some and helpless. Then it was shown how important it is to have well - prepared, well - trained people and to have equipment without which there is no ability to react, no ability to help. Somewhere around 9:00 a.m., the night had already fallen, I decided to call the Croatian Guard Association, a task force that had special training in winter conditions in the United States. I remember when I sent them into training that some of them asked me why they were going to the United States to train mountain troops. I said, perhaps one day we will need it and we should have moved these people very quickly from Zagreb, to collect them because it was Sunday. I succeeded in making sure that I had such a position at the time to get the HRZ helicopter to the fast 15 well-prepared guards. The extraction began sometime around midnight and at half past two in the morning, so after fourteen hours those five unhappy people were saved. It's one important thing that Americans say is a learned lesson that warns us that we need to do whatever is necessary in time to prevent tragedies to prevent lost lives. This man who left the hospital in Dubrava six months later gave me a book titled "Hope is not a method" – "Hope is not a method". It's an American book, and it seemed to me to be his personal experience since he was almost twelve hours in a helpless situation. What's the method? That's what we're talking about today, it's a law that I hope we'll adopt very soon, it's a quality training, it's a selection of the right people, it's a preparation, it's equipment. Certainly, without helicopters, without the possibility of quick and effective action, there would be no result. We succeeded thanks to a well-trained, well-prepared unit of the Croatian Guard Association which in just a few hours did what many others failed to do. Certainly, Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service is important and therefore needs to be given all the necessary attention in the coming period but all logistics problems are impossible to solve within the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service than at the level of other institutions, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior and our abilities at national level are part of a well-organised and efficient system whose quality this law and investment in equipment will contribute to the next period so that hope is not a method but we hope that the method will indeed be well prepared and equipped Croatia's mountain rescue service, which, in cooperation with other Croatian state institutions, needs to ensure safe stay for many tourists in Croatian mountains. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68878	Thank you. Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68879	I thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State! Here, about this debate about Croatia's mountain rescue service during its fifty-five years of existence was expected to save and prevent accidents in the mountains but also in other places where knowledge, technique, rescue equipment in the mountains that could save someone's life. However, experience and knowledge and even the highest quality of organization are often not enough without comparison and creation of a positive social environment and support practically the entire system. The adoption of this Law on Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service will finally recognise its public value. This law corrects injustice and finally provides for the rescue of Croatia's mountain service with the same conditions for action as they do elsewhere in the world. Since the overall activities of Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service are aimed at addressing a very demanding and priority public need, protecting the lives and health of people in unaccessible areas and in the event of weather disasters when they are not threatened by any regular rescue service, it is obvious that this law will contribute much more to security throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia than it will serve the members of the mountain rescue service itself. The Mountain Rescue Service is a voluntary and non-profit service of public character specialized in rescue in mountains, rocks, speleological facilities and other non-accessible places where special expertise should be applied and rescue equipment used in the mountains. This is exactly the kind of space, so outside of cities and public roads in the world, there are an increasing number of people and there are some activities in such areas, whether it's sports, tourism or traffic, mostly air traffic. Such activities should expect sudden accidents and dangerous conditions, which are due to the lack of knowledge of the terrain, which is due to the dangers of the relief of these non-accessible areas. Such spaces are often not available to other regular services. Given the growing number of visitors to all countries in the world, there is a trend and an increase in accidents in such areas. As a result, she felt the need for legal safety design in these areas as they do for other human spaces such as public roads and other human activities. I believe this is one of the few laws on which the adoption is governed by consensus among almost all political parties here in the assembly and the public. For these reasons, its adoption should take place until the beginning of the tourist season. As the season has practically begun, someone in that segment has failed. So we will enter another tourist season with improvisation and enthusiasm instead of with legislation that protects the safety and interests of Croatian citizens and tourists. Whether things like last summer will happen again when, despite the inhuman efforts made by Croatia's mountain rescue service, a missing young man from Australia has not been found. The whole process of preparing and drawing up this bill was really unnecessary. In fact, I remind you that on 26 November 2004, the Croatian Parliament ordered the construction of the Law on the Republic of Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service by adopting the Protection and Rescue Act. So it took almost 18 months plus another month to get into the process of this final proposal. When we know that from the beginning of this session, or from the beginning, from 22 December 2003 to practically July 2005, which ended this session of the Assembly passed 218 laws, 181 or 83% of them by emergency procedure, a legitimate question arises as to why and why this law did not enter the emergency procedure. Today's tourist resorts, unlike the situation in our country... The worlds are mainly known in Europe as extremely important national resources. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today, tourist resorts in which the season lasts for almost a year were once thrown villages between mountains and would remain that there are no high standards and an effective mountain rescue service. Such places bring to their residents an enormously high level of employment and stability of the entire state region, which, without tourism, would not have an optimistic future because of the lack of conditions for investment agriculture. There is a similar situation with us, for example with Gorski Kotar and Lika in Croatia where there is a combination of mountains and the proximity of the warm sea. Such areas attract more and more tourists precisely because of heavy accessibility but also because of intact and preserved nature. They include all living human activity, and they will surely be accompanied by both sudden illnesses and accidents. The number of accidents in nature is constantly growing, so in 2003, mountain rescuers intervened in 320 accidents. In 2004 around 400, and last year in 500 cases. In the first three months of this year, the intervention has already been 150 interventions of the Mountain Rescue Service during the first three months. Security has always been the best investment, and space and people have the most important resources of every responsible community. Unfortunately, in the Republic of Croatia, safety has been left on the burden of a handful of altruistic enthusiasts in this regard for the last 55 years. Now Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service is finally recognised as a security holder in more difficult access spaces and the draft law finally gives it public service status important for Croatia to which other rescue services and state institutions are obliged to help. So far, saving has depended on the good will and understanding of individuals who had to overstep their own powers in order to give helicopters or to inform of accidents that had been significantly damaged or disabled and sometimes even life. The law on the Mountain Rescue Service will also regulate the financing of Croatia's mountain rescue service from the state budget and the budget of the local community. In this respect, however, Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service has been facilitated so much that it will no longer have to deal with organising donor meetings in hopes of making money for the next action. Currently Croatia's most ready alpinists who make up Croatia's mountain rescue service over the last 55 years have been volunteers and will remain. It's not just our practice, it's elsewhere in the world. They can't even become professionals and get paid because it's immoral and unacceptable for money to be a motive for saving other people's lives. This Law provides that these volunteers have the right to compensation for expenses and the final draft provides these, and the fees specified or fees should be at the level of the daily salary of volunteers at their permanent place of work while volunteers of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service who participate in night rescues shall be entitled to non-working hours which are double and compensate. We find that quite a happy and skillful and above all a fair solution. Without the Mountain Rescue Service, every national system of protection and rescue is disabled and incomplete. It is also the most difficult form of rescue most often carried out under the most difficult weather and other circumstances and it is impossible to implement it safely and effectively without the necessary support of the entire system, the availability of the necessary resources and other preconditions. In all countries of the world, it is a valuable national resource, thanks to which the system of protection and rescue, medical assistance and similar access there because otherwise it would not be possible. As the personal safety and protection of life is the primary human need and the basic need and security throughout the entire area of a country, international obligations and strategic needs are needed as in the whole world to understand that such national services are recognised by their laws as public services that enjoy exactly the support of the state. Because it's the only way that I can effectively protect the social interest. I will personally support this final bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68880	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68881	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues here present members of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service. Perhaps in today’s day there are some symbols, today is St. Peter, and Peter is a rock, and we are talking about those who are very often unhappy right on the rocks, so here is the Holy Peter who guards them and those who walk on the rocks. As a doctor, so I join those who support and who are happy about this day and the law that we are talking about because it is actually one contribution to the better health security of every individual, citizen of Croatia but also to all those who are longer or shorter in stay in Croatia either as tourists or visitors of some other nature. This Law is also a kind of response to the request of the World Health Organization, which requires all Member States to form bodies at national level in case of an emergency situation. This may be terrorism, natural disasters, and the accidents involved in this service. This is not always an unreachable area of mountain range canyons and caves and so on, but also an urban environment and a traffic accident. In particular, it is necessary to highlight traffic accidents in terms of action I do not know this hour of major highway routes in Croatia and the tunnel. So tunnels are a special place where actually this service can also work together with the emergency medical service and Croatia thinks there are now over 30km of tunnels which is not negligible at all. As in all the accidents and those he deals with. Resolves its effects The Mountain Rescue Service from a medical point of view is worth the winged one that time is life. I therefore welcome once again all members of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service 360, including 20 doctors who watch day and night for the safety of all those in need, among whom there are those who deal with dangerous sports, the challenges of different species and those who are guided by philosophy that time is money. Since it is often time for all of us to have money, I have no doubt that we will find it for the operation of a philosophy - driven ministry is time for life. Mine, yours, all of us. Hence, there are no concerns raised here by some MPs that no funds will be provided for this service. So no matter what way she is already insured and will be and therefore because of all of this that we've all been talking about, I absolutely support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68882	Thank you. HSP club, five-minute debate. Dear Representative Miroslav Rosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68883	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In this final five minutes on behalf of the Club, I would actually like to just warn and ask a question that I would like the secretary of state to answer, and I believe that it is interested in other clubs, because I see that, by amendments, in fact, all the club representatives except the HDZ Club have submitted at least three or four identical amendments or very similar. What is actually interesting is that in the first reading of this law we discussed at the previous session and indeed almost to say that this is a record in the Croatian Parliament right away at the next session, so we have a second reading and it is precisely to insist on almost all the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament that this law is certainly passed because of its importance and because of its need above all, and because of the timing of the adoption before this peak of the tourist season. At that time, as a Parliament, we made a conclusion on the proposal of the HSP Club that should speed up this second reading as soon as possible, and that is how this happened, I would say almost a record if we had done our first and second reading in two sessions. What is interesting, however, is that from the law that was in the first reading, so this law that has now come into the second reading has made several changes within the law but changes that have not been spoken of by any club in the first reading. So, no club, no representative of this Croatian Parliament in the first reading did comment on that law in the first reading of these things that are now changed in the second reading. So I'm actually asking the Secretary of State and the Proposer of this law which was the cause of that subsequent mind, that is, what happened between these two sessions that they changed things in their second reading text from the first reading to which no one had ever criticized or mentioned as a need to change, while on the other hand, some of the things that we mentioned had to be changed have not been changed. But well, if what we've mentioned hasn't been changed why they've changed what no one's criticized and what we've been trying to put back into shape in our second reading, almost all the clubs are trying to get back into shape from our first reading to our amendments. There's something wrong with the ladies and gentlemen. So, of course I wouldn't talk about this here. I'm just going to point out on behalf of the HSP Club and this in these final five minutes, which is that these changes I'm talking about are trying to put the Mountain Rescue Service in one mold, they're actually trying to make it not autonomous, depending on the center and our deep conviction less effective than it has been, and that's certainly not the intensity of this law, and that I'm not talking about those parts that actually relate to the education of work in the Mountain Service, its organisation, its specific conditions of providing first aid and all the other things that we or which we clubs are trying to return to our amendments in the first reading. So, I make it clear and loud on behalf of the HSP Club that we are opposed to taking away the necessary autonomy of the Mountain Rescue Service and its ability to act outside the tumulted system in which it is now trying to push them in because it will certainly reduce its efficiency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68884	Thank you. Final review by Interior Ministry State Secretary Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68885	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, I have really listened carefully to the debate of all or almost all MPs and I think it is clear that there has been a dilemma just as Mr. Rožić said in this final review of whether the Gorean Rescue Service should be given greater autonomy or not should be given greater autonomy, or whether it should be more involved in its activities through the State Protection and Rescue Administration system. I would also answer why there was a change between the first and second readings in the part where the MPs did not ask any questions. Between the first and second readings, the State Protection and Rescue Administration held a debate on how to make the system work in the best possible way since the State Administration, that the Mountain Rescue Service is not and cannot be absolutely autonomous, because the Protection and Rescue Act is also precise as one of the components of a complete system of protection and rescue. That is why we have proposed some new solutions because within this system of protection and rescue there has been a debate between the first and this reading of the debate today on how things, where certain dilemmas were still best placed. We will certainly read your amendments by tomorrow several more times, consider. I can't say in advance whether we're going to adopt or not, but there's a possibility of adopting them anyway. However, what has taken place in these changes is certainly one thought that Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service within the single system of the National Protection and Rescue Authority and 112 can act more efficiently, faster and more effectively because it is not a problem for us if it is alarmed through a single number 112 which is already widely accepted in the Croatian public, and in addition, the State Administration for Protection and Rescue when it receives a tip of an accident through 112 can, and then immediately activate other services that, together with the Mountain Rescue Service, need to come to the site of the accident and joint action, try to help or to save the unhappy. That was why we went with these changes that were not appealed to by the first-readers. But I repeat again does not mean that such a solution is absolutely good. We don't think we're absolutely right, and that's why we're going to be discussing these remarks of yours, especially the amendments by tomorrow, and see if there's room for adoption and the need to adopt some amendments. I think it was also visible here to think about how to secure the financing of Croatia's mountain rescue service. There was a debate between individual MPs that they needed to be provided with more resources from the state budget, but also from the budget of local self-government units. But I also noticed the debates especially of people who come from local self-government units so it would be unsustainable to impose additional financial obligations on municipalities, cities and counties, even if it was such a noble and humane activity as the activities of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service. So there must be certain dilemmas in finding a solution, and we must take into account not only that Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service is carrying out truly one noble and human activity, but that financial resources should also be provided for their activity, but that we do not impose additional financial obligations on local self-government units that have a lot of obligations under other laws anyway. Most of the time, to cut short and finish, we'll consider these remarks. In particular, we will carefully promote and consider amendments, and tomorrow we will make a statement about them if it really makes sense for them to be adopted. Make sure we adopt them no matter which club they came from. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68886	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68887	So I am correcting the inaccuracies of the secretary of state who said that we were talking about how it would be unsustainable for local self-government units to support Croatia's mountain rescue service. We didn't talk about it, we said that such a defined law was not in accordance with the Constitution and the law. I am convinced that units of local self-government will support the Mountain Rescue Service more and better now that the law is passed, not less. And it won't be unbearable to them. We were just talking about the principle that the state is lightly transferring obligations to local self-government units, which is not in line with the Constitution and the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68888	The secretary of state did not speak in this regard, but spoke about how MPs from individual units of local self-government indicated that there was an objection that it would be a great burden for units. ... Yeah, but that's, that's not an incorrect claim, that's one court of law, one grade, one assessment. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, you're not, but it's not an incorrect claim, it's worth the court, giving reasons and assessing what a burden it would be for local self-government units. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's not a question of truth or falsehood. I'm closing the debate. You will prepare yourself clearly for, tomorrow for around the amendment and around the law. Tomorrow we'll vote on that law. Final draft law on Croatia's mountain rescue service. We've got a plate. State Secretary at the Ministry of Interior Ivica Buconjic. An amendment to one of Jagoda Martic's MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68890	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68891	It is accepted and becomes an integral part of the law. Other Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68892	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68893	It is accepted and becomes an integral part of the law. Third of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68894	It's unacceptable. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Protection and Rescue Act is a unique and operational communication centre, the 112 Center receives all calls related to emergency situations, accidents, threats of disaster, and through funds linked to standard, operational procedures hastily reporting all competent services and coordinating the action by invitation. Therefore, the unique number of emergency service aids increases the level of general security of citizens, as well as the ability of an effective response system. In addition, Article 4 is also foreseen to allow the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service to receive calls and act on calls from other natural or legal persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68895	SDP representative club Jagoda Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68896	Thank you, Mr. President. The importance that we had when we proposed this amendment was because, in fact, one of the basic tasks and the regular activities of the Mountain Rescue Service is helicopter rescue, because saving from non-accessible areas is most often not possible without the use of helicopters. This type of rescue does not need to be tied exclusively to Centre 112 because the air operator means it can be either the owner or the helicopter concessionor. It may be anyone if, of course, it meets the conditions laid down in international rules on air navigation and national air traffic regulation. The purchaser and financiers of such transports may be insurance houses, private persons and all interested in paying for the helicopter and hiring the Mountain Rescue Service to extract and transport the injured from the non-accessible terrain. We think it is European and world practice, so there is no reason why Croatia should be an exception and I say a vote on this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68897	The vote on amendment number three. Please, let's get on with it. ... You can vote. [[The MPs speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Score. 16 for, 5 abstentions, 61 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendments 4 and 5 have been consumed earlier. The sixth SDP representative club. What? Please be my guest. The vote was consummated because when he...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68899	Well, they're not consummated by reason. Be nice, I can't get back to you...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68900	My colleague, Rosic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68901	But I can't answer for an explanation of the SDP Club's amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68902	You cannot answer when the amendment has been rejected.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68903	But Mr. President, the amendment was explained by a representative of the SDP because it was an amendment of the SDP. I have a different explanation. I'd like that argument to be heard.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68904	Comrade Rosic, let me explain something to you. Please, calm down. When the amendment has been rejected, please, when the amendment has been rejected as a measure of voting by any previous amendment coming which is next which is rejected independently of the reasoning. He's been consummated and he's no longer being voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68905	I'm sorry, why?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68906	Because it says so in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68907	Mr. President, I'll...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68908	Oh, good.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68909	Can I ask for a break on behalf of the club?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68910	You may request a break on behalf of the club, but why won't you understand and understand that something is written in the Rules of Procedure and that you insist on something.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68911	I don't insist, I'm just looking for a break, I'm sorry. It says in the Rules of Procedure that I can request a break. Listen, you've been harassing the whole Assembly too often, so no one's against you. Absolutely. About bullying, please keep your opinions to yourself. ... No, it's, it's a request for a HSP rally. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68912	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Pero Kovacevic. Please, peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68913	Your Honor, Mr. President. You know what the breach of the Rules of Procedure is? Because it was in the previous laws. The HSP club was the first to submit its amendments. And now who put together this plate put together the SDP club and others. Therefore, the Rules of Procedure have also been broken because our amendment had just gone to Article 5(3) and it was first to be made known about the amendment of the HSP Club in order to satisfy this. This is the second or third time someone has drawn up a series of amendments past the Rules of Procedure, I guess according to the articles and to the Rules of Procedure when it is submitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68914	Order! It's not about any damage to the Rules of Procedure because it's not about anything. You want a club session? All right. HSP Club seat for 10 minutes. It's a club-session stop. It's the 16th.02 o'clock. Ladies and gentlemen, after a break at the request of the HSP's Club of Representatives, honourable representative Miroslav Rožic will deliver his opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68916	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll take the club's opinion, not mine, but whatever it is, here's what it's all about. First of all, that we understand each other, ladies and gentlemen, who, perhaps because of the poor work of these microphones, I'm not going to make any noise about it, you haven't heard what it's about, I'll do it again. So, the esteemed representative Martic, explaining three entirely identical amendments to the SDP, HSS and HSP, has actually given an explanation for another amendment, i.e. The second in a row, not the third in a row, which is why I asked the President of the Parliament to give me the opportunity to explain why we submitted the amendment because it did not provide an explanation for those three amendments that are indeed identical. So let's put the ball on the ground, it's not vanity, it's vanity. It's the measure of things. Amendment 3. SDP Representatives' Club, 4. HSS and 5. HSP is talking about one of those same things, but I'm not going to go into the scale of it now because I believe you've read those amendments and you've entered the metrics yourself, but I'm going to tell you like this. I also said that on behalf of the club. In the first reading of this Law, there was no comment on those things that were changed by the Government in the second reading. All these amendments that have now been submitted to the HSP Club, the HSS Club and the SDP Club have been submitted by four completely identical amendments and all four of these amendments are not the fruit of our wits, but are the fruit of our desire to return the bill to the form in which it was in the first reading. So let us be honest until the end. These amendments are neither the fruit of any of our special wits about the organisation of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service, nor the HSP club, nor the HSS club, nor the SDP club. All these amendments are the demands of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service itself. They gave us these amendments, they want it to look like that, they want to work on these amendments and they will have to work on this law or want to work on this law or not, and it's completely unclear to me that any political will actually wants to change an effective organization that works 56 years with really envious results, put it in a legal mold that they themselves oppose and think it's good. Who thinks that's good? Who can think that's good? Why are we doing this? Therefore, this is not about any political bickering between the opposition clubs and the ruling one, but it is actually about our normal appeal to accept the amendments of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service which wants to organise its service within the organisation of the state administration in this way. They have a 50-year experience, and the State Administration and the Secretary of State don't have that experience not 56-years-old, but not 56 days-old, and I beg you, what are you now in, why are you exorcising these things that way? If at the very beginning of the application of a law you want to have a conflict and insist on this political display of muscle then it really doesn't make sense because we here don't talk about a law where this political expression of muscle can possibly be even more passing. It's not about different concepts. This is about the efficiency of saving people's lives. So let's have so much trust and so much piety for people who have been doing it for 56 years voluntarily buying their own equipment and organizing themselves. All of a sudden, they do not know how to organize themselves, but someone else needs to organize them in another way that is unacceptable to them. I am also asking you on behalf of the HSP Club, and I hope on behalf of other clubs who have submitted their amendments to reflect it in a certain way and at least provide the Secretary of State with the possibility if it has not arrived today by tomorrow that the government is consulting on these requirements and that at least we are not voting on the law today but next week so that they can hold further consultations in the Government with Croatian Mountain Rescue Service experts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68917	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Amendment number 3 of the SDP Representatives Club read: "Article 5(3) behind the word "execution" adds the letter "i." It was an amendment to the SDP Representatives' Club. We voted on this amendment because that amendment was not accepted. In accordance with Article 169 of the Treaty on This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The following amendments 4 and 5, number 4 of HSS Representatives Clubs and number 5 of HSP Representatives were identical with Amendment 3 of the SDP Representatives Club and in accordance with Article 169(6) only votes on the first of them and not on the following, on the following amendments. That is why it has not been voted and cannot be voted for by the Rules of Procedure on Amendments Nos 4 and 5. Comrade Rosic, you have had pledoies to accept your views, opinions and proposals of the concept of law. It's something else entirely. This is about this, and it is no longer regrettable because the Rules of Procedure are clear. And how it will vote on the final draft law on this will be voted in the vote in this law. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68918	Mr. President, just before I said that there was a breach of the Rules of Procedure because of that, you have now read how the vote goes. It votes on the 1st amendment. We submitted the 1st amendment to the HSP Club and could not be voted first on the SDP Club's amendment. You've just read the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, the vote was not done properly. So, Law P.Z. No. 465 The first amendment was submitted by the Croatian Party of Rights Club. Then how could the SDP Club's rules of procedure come first? He can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68919	You got it. You know why? Because there are paragraphs 5 of Article 166, 169 and it reads: "If several amendments on amendments have been tabled in one article of the final draft of the law, they shall be voted in accordance with the order laid down by the President of the Parliament without discussion." That's why.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68920	Wait a minute. ... You didn't see. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now you've made a mistake. You broke your rules of procedure because you didn't... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68921	No more. Amendment 6. SDP counseling club. Here you go, secretary, explain!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68922	Thank you very much. This amendment is not accepted. By accepting this amendment, a firm rescue organisation would be established and assumed by a firm rescue organisation and its professionalisation with the provision of regular incomes. This would be contrary to Article 2 of this final proposal for a law defining Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service as a non-profit humanitarian association.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68923	Okay. Dear Representative Jagoda Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68924	Thank you, Mr. President. These are now the conditions when you can really hear it because at the beginning of the noise I didn't hear what it was about. I cannot accept Mr. Secretary your explanation because what should have been the intensity of this law, namely the law should have recognised saving in unaccessible spaces as a public need and Croatia's mountain rescue service as a carrier of activity because you will agree that no one can better neither assess the situation nor lead the rescue action from the mountain rescuers themselves. Instead, the law proposed in this form because you obviously do not want to accept the key amendments actually drowning the HGSS into the system. Their public powers are minimal that in this domain public needs cannot function. The HGSS has not received public authority to organise a rescue service in the mountains and even its basic authority has yet to exercise at the call of the Centre 112. I would say that the HGSS in the law is not recognized as a national resource for solving the situation with which it has successfully ended half a century but has become called it a minor who after a long time has won his adoptor and that minor that we only mention it for 56 years and the adoptor only for a year. It is precisely because the final bill of law is actually much worse than the law in the first reading of the SDP Club cannot support the adoption of this law. Thank you. And I demand a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68925	To vote on Amendment 6 of the SDP Representatives Club. Let's get on with it. The result? 28 for, 63 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 7. HSP Representatives' Club and Amendment 8. The representatives of the HSS Club shall be identical, in accordance with the provision of Article 169(6). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall not be voted on. Amendment 9. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68926	It's unacceptable. On the basis of the provisions of Article 9(7), The Croatian Red Cross Act has public authority to train citizens to provide first aid in everyday life, to train at work, to transport and large natural, environmental and other accidents with consequences of mass injuries, epidemics and armed conflicts, to care about training teachers for first aid teachers, to keep records and issues of appropriate convictions about the exam.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68927	A colleague of Miroslav Rozic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68928	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State, for quoting the Red Cross Act where it is visible from your quote that they are not training for specific knowledge from first medical aid in the mountains and specific conditions. That's not what the Croatian Red Cross is doing right now. That's exactly what you proved with your quote. And that is why we are submitting this amendment because where the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service works there is no other medicine or first aid, there are no medical institutions and there is no Croatian Red Cross and I can't get there. Therefore, mountain rescuers and their doctors could not be what they are if they did not have these specific knowledge that the Croatian Red Cross does not train. They have some other specific knowledge and that is exactly why we have submitted this amendment so that they can pass on these specific knowledge to others what no one else but them can pass on to others. Therefore, the implementation of this training is necessary because Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service is actually in those conditions in which they work an extended emergency hand it ensures the availability of healthcare and where other public services, individuals and institutions cannot act. So please, that is why we wanted and submitted this amendment, I repeat once again at the request of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service. Thank you very much. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68929	Please vote. Let's get on with it. When you asked. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm looking at it right now and you're getting it. Here you go, your honorary vice president!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68930	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues! I must react for a reason because it is one of the largest humanitarian associations of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68931	What article was injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68932	Article 214. I will read paragraph 1 of the subparagraph, which reads: “By my conduct, he deviates from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly, and one of the general rules of conduct in the Assembly is to speak the facts that have been checked. ” You can't say that the Croatian Red Cross doesn't... and the Mountain Rescue Service. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I must remind you that the Mountain Rescue Service so far has worked and acted often and within the Red Cross and together with the Red Cross carried out a whole series of rescue actions. I, in each segment, support the Mountain Rescue Service, but I also ask that we treat fair and play as well as the association that has 450,000 members of our citizens who are ready at all times and have helped all of our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68933	Mr. Vice President, this is no violation of the Rules of Procedure. To build a construction on the breach of the Rules of Procedure with the the thesis that the Secretary of State or that the representative speaks inaccuracy and that means that by his conduct he deviates from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly, it should be for one patent office. You can't talk. ... Listen up! [[Intruder Arlović, you don't understand.]] Well, I'm right! You can't speak until you get the word. It's nothing. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you can only say that to the patent office of this kind of structure. The vote on amendment seven, six. Nine, Amendment nine. The result? 24 for, 3 abstentions, 62 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. It deviates from the general rules of conduct because it disagrees with one point of view. It's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Tenth Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68934	He doesn't accept. In fact, Article 11 of this law is prescribed that the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68935	Mr. Secretary of State, be a little more discreet if that's possible against those who contribute to hearing.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68936	Article 11 states that Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service is working with state administration authorities and units of local and regional self-government and other institutions in the Armed Forces, and this provides sufficient opportunities for the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service to obtain all the necessary information they need for the intervention.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68937	Representative Jagoda Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68938	It's a very short explanation. In fact, without certain data from some institutions or physical institutions, successful rescue can be difficult, and often the safety of members of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service can be compromised, and therefore I really don't see any reason why this proposal is so formulated where they are said to be able to ask for meaning under certain conditions, of course, so that these data would be obliged to protect the confidentiality of the data which would make it impossible to adopt it. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68939	Please vote. Some have a very nice time voting as a form of fun. We can vote. The result? 20 for, 2 abstentions, 63 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 11 amendments to the HSS representative club identical. We don't vote on him. And the 12th same club of HSP representatives. No, it's not. Yeah. It's content, but please. It's HSP's 12th Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68940	It's not accepted with the same explanation, with the same explanation. It means Article 11 provides opportunities for the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service to obtain all the necessary information in the conduct of their interventions.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68941	Say it loud and clear. Representative Miroslav Rosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68942	Thank you very much. Yes, this article does make it possible, but through the State Emergency Authority. Right? But in what way?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68943	Do you want to vote or what?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68944	How, for example, Mr. Secretary of State, Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service will get the right to request and, more importantly, to receive information from the HEP about the state of openness or the closure of the dam, for example, in the Cetina Canyon where they need to carry out some rescue. On the basis of what article can they ask for it and the basis of which article do they receive it? I'm looking for an explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68945	There's no explanation. There's no argument. You present your proposals and ask for a vote or you do not ask for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68946	Thank you very much. So, I say.../President: "Peace please!"... So I'm saying as much as it seems to you gentlemen, don't God forbid anyone.../President: "Peace please." Do not invite representatives!...... God forbid one of us is stuck in the canyon of Cetina and that the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service can't get or someone close to us can't get and can't ask for information about... Hep dam openness, by HEP. [[Because of the President's bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, I claim on behalf of the HSP Club that Article 11 does not allow the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service to obtain information on the state of openness or closure of the dam by HEP in the Cetina Canyon where they need to save a man and therefore ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68947	Okay. Please vote. Let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 23 for, 2 abstentions, 63 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 13th House of Representatives Club of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68948	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68949	It becomes an integral part of the law. And the fourteenth and Club of Representatives of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68950	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68951	It becomes an integral part of the Law. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that with 67 votes for, 13 abstentions and 10 against the adoption of the Law on the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service in the text as proposed by the Government along with the amendments adopted. I suggest now we have a united debate on 15. Final proposal of the Law on Croatian Defence Foundation and members of their families, second reading of P.Z. No. 497 over 16. Final proposal of the Law on the Fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, second reading, P.Z. No. 496 Both laws are in second reading. They were in the first reading. Are there objections and objections to a united debate? There isn't. Then we'll discuss these two laws together. State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence, Family and Intergenerational Solidarity, State Secretary Tomislav Ivic will further explain the proposals of the two laws. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68953	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. And when it comes to the Foundation Act and the Fund for Scholarshipship in relation to first reading, there have been no amendments to the law, given that there have been no concrete remarks and proposals for amendments to the individual provisions of the articles of both of these laws during the first reading. So, in front of you, the text of the law of the first reading is essentially unchanged. In addition to the wording of the Foundation Act in Article 12, Erste Investa, a management company is deleted, since there is no need for the management company's name to stand in the law. So, the unaltered proposals of one law and another. In view of the debate during the first reading, I believe it will remain that way in this second reading, and I believe that you will support the proposal of both laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68954	Thank you. War veterans' committee, president, respected representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68955	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At its 23rd session on 28 June 2006, the Council of War Veterans Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Final Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and the Final Proposal of the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families delivered to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by its act of 20 June 2006. The government has conducted a joint debate with regard to the similarity of the issue and the financing of the legislation. The Committee held the discussion as a parent body pursuant to Article 81. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Committee meetings were attended by representatives of associations from the Homeland War. The proposer's representative introduced the intensities of the two bill proposals, which are evident in improving the material and social status of endangered Croatian defenders and members of their families, as well as improving the social status of students, students and students of postgraduate studies. Since there were no significant comments on the text of the final proposals at the first reading of both proposals of the law, there was no significant difference in the text of the first reading. The board members and representatives of the associations who came from the Homeland War welcomed the haste in the law-making process, knowing that it had been less than a month since the debate on bill proposals. It reiterated the need for a hasty adoption of implementing rules and the appointment of members of boards of directors in order for the laws to be in place as soon as possible. Following the discussion, the Committee unanimously reached the following conclusions. One, it is proposed to the Croatian Assembly to pass the Law on the Fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. And under two, it is proposed to the Croatian Assembly to pass the Law on the Croatian Defence Foundation from the Homeland War and members of their families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68956	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HSP representative club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68957	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. The first thing I have to say is that the HSP club is not opposed to the establishment of a Croatian Defence Scholarship Fund from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders. But we believe that there is still the important challenge that we have pointed to in the first readings that we have not received the right answer. Namely, why am I saying that? I am speaking because of Article 54(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families is prescribed that Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, children of the mortally injured Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, children of prisoners and missing Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, HRVI from the Homeland War and children from the Homeland War, volunteers and children of volunteers will have the right to scholarship during regular schooling, education, regular undergraduates and the right to compensation, and everything has already been determined and then Article 55 of that Government will establish a special scholarship fund for the purpose. So the government should've done it already. And now we're going to another variant. The government is now very elegant from its legal obligation to leave and find the solution that it is still smarter to go by law, why? Because then the government has no financial obligations in terms of providing funding for this grant fund. Therefore, there is still a reluctance for us which has not received an answer that is appropriate, so it is indisputable that a fund must be set up for the purpose and the needs of a scholarship, and it is not exactly this argument that has been given in addition to that part, namely, it is stated in the explanation, namely Article 29(2). The Law on the Croatian Defence Fund of the Homeland War and members of their families found that a third of the net profit from investments is intended for development, social and humanitarian measures in order to improve the status of Croatian defenders and members of their families, in agreement with the Government, will determine the purposes of this section of profits. So when it comes to this Fund, it says it's about 16, a little more than 17 million kuna, but the law doesn't say it's going to be financed from this part, because this is about scholarship. So it's not about these intentions of development, social and humanitarian measures. This is the final proposal of the Foundation Act. As far as the foundation is concerned, there is a clear situation, with the fact that it should probably be a little bit different and more fully arranged, but I say it remains for the club HSP because of the fact that, if the legal solution is seen, the Government should establish this fund, not elegantly leave that obligation to the Croatian Parliament. And why did she leave? For the sake of funds, it is then a better variant that these slightly less than 17 million are taken from that third, and in this way less will be filled with funds related to this part of the defense fund, and the needs of Croatian defenders, the needs of their family members are enormous, we see for ourselves that there are more problems every day, probably you in other clubs get requests, complaints about the exercise of certain rights, the difficult financial situation and everything else. So, first of all, we have to say for that part of the dispute. The second part is the general part of the dispute which is good and the legal solution is whether the Governing Board together with the Government can decide on the fate of the profits and everything else that essentially belongs to all those who do, has the right to participate in the fund, means Croatian defenders, families of the dead, the missing, Croatian military disabled, even though we ourselves know that the situation is quite difficult for the fund, that in the course of and one trial related to the management of the fund, because it has received a fund from the "Erste" Bank, I think that the "Privredna Bank" has filed a judicial procedure and so that the situation is quite bad, mainly in the case of the number of Croatian defenders and that certain groups of Croatian defenders have been abolished about that part of the fighting and non-combating part of the special units, or that part of them did not respect the action and... and all other actions in which they participated, which are not contained, that I am not talking about other situations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It means that for the grant fund, that for the foundation, but we have to admit legally and certainly different that for the Croatian party club the right remains this challenge why the government has elegantly transferred its commitment to the foundation of the Fund to the Croatian Parliament and why it did not provide the funds although the law says it is correct, it does not belong to the humanitarian part that it means to regulate the trust and which is set out in Article 29. The law on the Croatian Defence Fund, is that the government did as the Law has been prescribed, so that the Fund should have already acted. Carefully, the Law has been passed, or effective, since 1.1.2005, and we are now bringing in 2006 what the sublaws of the Government should have already done. So it was supposed to set up the Fund, that Fund was supposed to be in office, this issue of scholarship was to be resolved, and then for the government, they were instructive deadlines when sublegal regulations and everything else were to be passed. So, even though the law says that within six months it has to be done, regulated, that's for the government an instructional deadline, it's not binding. And why was he instructive? In order to address the issue of financial resources elegantly, they will take it out of part of this gain, so they will regulate the question of scholarship even though it is not a legal intention and intention, and it automatically prevents smaller funds from being in the defender's trust for all the needs that are daily and which do. So, I say we welcome the founding of the Fund, but we are opposed to such a solution, meaning that it was more appropriate for the whole part of this net gain, that thirds go into the trust and that it is not always up to the Board of Directors and Government to decide on whose name the Government and the Management Board decided when it was a legal obligation? How can they decide on a scholarship fund when it was a legal obligation? We have to put these things in a clean place, and what's said in the explanation doesn't hold water at all, but they're talking about some humanitarian part that's true, but the legal obligation was to have the Government and set up the Fund and secure the funds, not to take those funds from the Croatian Defence Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68958	Thank you. The HSS Club, the Honorable Representative, Željko Ledinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68959	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Let me say a few words about these two bill proposals that we have on the agenda today. First of all, I will say that the HSS Club will support the adoption of both of these laws because we think that they are primarily necessary, and already here in the opening debates it was said that they should have been passed long ago. Here are a few words about the objectives and issues that are listed here that these laws will enable defenders and members of their families to improve social security, that they will allow a part of those most vulnerable defenders and members of their families to improve their material status, which I think is safe to welcome. And in that part of the HSS Club, I say they'll back it up. But what concerns me about the adoption of such laws is, above all, what it says when it explains the funding of the law that it does not require any new additional funds for it and we often find it here and obviously we are all aware that it is not so, that part of the funds is being redeployed, moves from the trust fund to the trust fund, and on other examples, it would also be possible to say and show what it looks like in practice. When we look at the rights of our defenders and what they could achieve from saying 91 or 95 after a peaceful reintegration, or from 97, then I have to say that that common defender didn't get any big rights, even though it's often said that he got some big rights. That common defender of our unit didn't realize any possibilities, I'd say practically if he was poorer, then he got practically nothing. If he couldn't have I don't know how many thousands of marks back then to buy a car he couldn't get the privilege of importing a car. If he was a farmer then he could have realized some part of buying a machine but if he didn't have the basic funds he couldn't and if he couldn't give any mortgage, he would have covered for it too. Then the one who made some kind of compensation so he bought that machine couldn't return afterwards because clearly of that machine there was no income. Therefore, I would say that we practically did not allow this great majority of defenders to gain any privilege. And it has often been said because of some others that these are terrible privileges that have achieved something that they may not have even had to accomplish. And that's why I think it's good that we have this kind of trust fund and one trust fund that's going to try to solve exactly the questions of these most vulnerable families of our defenders, and especially when we've heard how much of it, here we've had the opportunity to hear here at the pay phone and before there are two thousand deaths, suicides and all that, then we know that it's not easy for these people after all these activities they've had in their lives defending their homeland. And their basic motto was to defend their country. And that's why I think we need to have one worry about that population. And here I have to say about this part when we start this fund and I agree with my colleague Kovacevic who says that the question is now whether some of that money should be transferred to the trust fund or whether it needs to be found some extra compensation. When you calculate that 16 million or here 20 and something, 28 as much as it's mentioned, so when you recalculate to 4.5 thousand users it turns out to be some if I did a good calculation of 4 thousand or less kuna. Therefore, it is obvious that this part of the money will not be large and that there will be no great help when we know that if one of our defenders is to send a child to another place, it may be the amount for a month to stay in another city. That's not a big deal. I appreciate the intention and the intention to try it, to start getting rid of it, but I would love to be both a defender and a man who commanded with the units and who knows a lot of those people where I've always had the most actually asked of that population who was at war with me to help them in various ways. Because obviously we haven't all done enough together to help in that part. And that's why I'm saying you should see that these budgets of that trust and trust fund are far greater. Furthermore, what particularly bothers me these days is about some interpretations of certain settings that are being realized on the rights of certain defenders, officials and others. I don't quite understand how we can interpret it when I don't know one counselor advises a minister and then, on his example, it turns out that he was wrong and we were at the same time supporting him, and then this minister advises that he should withdraw some of his decisions. You know, these procedures cast a shadow on that entire population unnecessarily. I advocate, above all, that all laws are respected and that this applies to all, not that some are not subject to it. Because I'm sorry, it doesn't make sense that a high official advises someone to act contrary to the court's decisions. That's the kind of thing that happens when we happen then we have problems with the defense population, with associations, and we don't need that. Here, I mean, I had to say it because I see that lately there have been some big stories about it. We must respect the laws that are passed, and I hope that this Law on the Foundation of Defence and this Law on the Fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders and children of the defence population will also contribute to better care and care for these most vulnerable layers of the population. Here's why the HSS Club will support the bill and I've also highlighted those financing issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68960	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68961	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament! I'm going to correct Mr. Honorable colleague Ledinsky's misstatement where he said he couldn't be a counsellor and he's not right himself because I believe it's about Mr. Darka Bestek who's right. He's legally right because disabled 100% group I as well as II. the groups have the right to legal assistance and care which must be taken in the administrative procedure and the administrative procedure has not been implemented properly and the whole catch is in this regard.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68962	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Ledinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68963	A colleague, a respected colleague and a friend of mine from the Djakic battlefield spoke about some things that I did not specify and therefore injured the 209 Rules of Procedure that spoke about it. I was just saying that things like this are harmful to everyone else and your appointment of that man and you're still, you're putting us in a position and all of us here that these things aren't going to work out the right way. And to claim that something was wrong and the legal verdict was passed by Mr. President is a lawyer. He can tell if it's right or wrong?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68964	You mentioned, clearly, that you mentioned because counsellors, but correct it through the polemics, not through injuries. ... Would you please explain that? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] There's no word. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The club of representatives of the CNS respected representative Zeljko Kurtov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68965	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This is one commendable law. I think the Croatian People's Party fully supports it, but I will make some small remarks so that there are no ambiguities and I would like to warn ahead of time. Here is an example in Article 2. The Fund is established with the purpose of achieving the right to scholarship during the regular period, I would ask the Secretary of State to add here if an amendment is necessary, I will also make it an extraordinary secondary education. Regular, education of regular and extraordinary university and professional study and the right to compensation for part of the cost of tuition, postgraduate studies at higher universities of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, children of the deadly Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, children of prisoners or missing Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and Croatian wartime disabled from the Homeland War and children of the Homeland War. Volunteers and children of volunteers from the Homeland War. Why, I'm asking you to sign this up, put an extraordinary fit in this. We have an example at a university in Karlovac where we have 50 of our defenders who are at the university, graduates from schools, colleges. They, a university in Karlovac, forgives half their tuition, but the state does not respect that forgiveness so that essentially the university bears half of its cost. I think there are a lot of Croatian defenders who end up extremely and are educated. This should therefore help those, especially those who have self-initiative. And I don't think it's a problem for you to put an extraordinary one between regular high school education. I don't think there's any problem here, and that should be accepted. If necessary, I'll make an amendment. I'd just like to add, as far as the scholarship fund is concerned, that priority should be given to defenders and volunteers who have no status resolved. Which they don't have, which is nowhere to be found. Who are not disabled, who are not on any basis have no income and their children have no support in this country. I think we should go to a narrow circle of the most endangered volunteers and defenders, and that's the only way we're going to succeed with this trust and achieve with this fund the goal we originally wanted and which I think we want and now all together. I don't think there's any reason we don't have the same intentions to be honest and honest. As for the war, I would warn more if we had a large group of Croatian volunteers and defenders who died after the war died and so on and their children were not in any way taken care of. Therefore, this foundation should, in its Regulation, take into account in its Regulation the priority of being the most vulnerable group of defenders and volunteers. And their children are normal. As far as the foundation is concerned, the purpose of the foundation is to provide financial assistance for the life insurance of Croatian defenders. The provision of financial assistance for the heavily vulnerable families of Croatian defenders and members of their families, the provision of financial assistance for health care and the treatment of severely ill Croatian defenders and members of their family's ropes, as well as the provision of financial assistance after the death of Croatian defenders and members of their family. Provide financial assistance to Croatian defenders and members of their family's ropes to acquire first profession, requalification and retraining in the system of extraordinary schooling or attending training courses for certain professions. Provide financial assistance to Croatian defenders and members of their family's rope for employment and self-employment. By providing other types of financial assistance to Croatian defenders and members of their families who achieve the purpose of the foundation. This foundation does not remove funds on other grounds, which are already used, which are already used in the Ministry for the same purposes. So these groups that already have anything I think about if these funds could be diversified and they won't be in, which was the best intention that the most vulnerable group of defenders and their children, their families would try to get through this foundation, try to help them, and that the state would simply not have had a chance through the laws so far because themselves defenders who aren't disabled, who aren't families of the dead and so on, these defenders actually have no privileges and no rights at all. I think this is the first time that this population should exercise some rights and that this population would have concerns and concerns through state institutions and through this foundation and through this Defence Fund. As for the expansion of this population, if it comes from this trust, this fund goes on to satisfy the largest population, it's 500,000 defenders. No one gets anything. No one will be pleased. Everyone's gonna be nervous. I don't think that's the purpose or purpose of these foundations or this fund. I repeat the rule that will be passed behind these laws, these laws are good and I support them and the Croatian People's Party supports them. I think that this rule that will be passed behind this should be in the service of the most vulnerable groups of Croatian volunteers and defenders and their families, and that with only one narrowly targeted group we can really help this population. If we do this too much, it will be nothing, so there will be just one more story that will sadden us, and I don't think anyone in this Croatian Assembly is in the interest, and so is the ministry. Therefore, I sincerely hope that these two draft laws will achieve their goal of satisfying all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68966	Thank you very much. We have one correction, Mr. Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68967	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I'm correcting this inaccuracies. By way of derogation from Article 2(1) of the basic Regulation, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The Fund Act cannot differ because it is a copy of Article 54(1). Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Because it means team, it's a material law that determines a circle of people who exercise the right to scholarship. Now, if the government had created this fund and then there would be room in the foundation for it to be introduced anyway, but that could introduce this funding for this part of the extraordinary education. So that's what law should be introduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68968	Thank you. It is up to the HDZ Club and Mr. Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68969	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports and commends the adoption of this final proposal of the Law on the Foundation of Croatian Defences from the Homeland War and members of their families as well as a fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. The very purpose of passing these laws is to improve the material and social security of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, which is one of the permanent tasks of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as well as all of us. The law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families as well as other regulations provides for a certain level of material and social security that is not always enough to address specific problems in which, despite the application of the prescribed defence rights, a part of the defence population remains at a lower level of living standards. This characteristics give the situation in multi-member families where no one is employed, multi-member families in which only one member is employed or is entitled to retire, but with low incomes, pensions or low-income salaries, can neither enable that defender as his children to live under normal conditions. Like when families where individual members are seriously ill or in the family of unresolved housing issues. On the other hand, there is a part of the defence population that seeks to address the issue of self-employment and when they do and achieve state support as a measure of three in self-employment, then at that last stage when they have to start certain production or have to start with a particular job, they always lack one small segment of financial resources to continue their initial self-employment initiative and from this foundation it will be possible to help them overcome this crisis of initial self-employment or the design of work that would be dealt with further. In the present time, a good part of these and with the use of state aid ends up back at the employment bureau. Therefore, this foundation will also have this function to help exactly those in the early difficult stages of self-employment. It follows that the foundation is intended to help solve the material problems of Croatian defenders and members of their families, or contribute to their social security when this is not possible by law on the rights of Croatian defenders as well as other regulations governing their rights. The Croatian Defence Scholarship Fund from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War legal assumptions are being created to improve the social status of students, students, students of post-graduate studies resulting from Article 54(1). Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, because they are about persons who are entitled to a scholarship or compensation for part of the cost of schooling post-graduate studies to achieve their regular, monthly income per member of the household do not exceed the established property price. And that's what we're talking about and what's good. One population of Croatian defenders certainly all know that they have a material situation with respect to whether they have founded their own companies, whether they are employees of good companies, whether they are retired or in the middle of a high-ranking Croatian wartime disability, and from this aspect they are achieving their good enough incomes, while those defenders who do not have it and have large families and small incomes and property censorships do not go beyond what is prescribed by this law will certainly be satisfied through this fund. I also want to say that the government was obliged to establish this fund and I don't think there's any need to set up two funds, but through this fund only by government means when it's seen what number it is, whether it's the number of those who carry out the right and who through the instruments implementing the rights from the fund or from the trust, when exactly what number of users meet the conditions laid down by these basic legal standards will certainly be able to intervene in the fund of donations, donations, aids and others, and so will be able to intervene in the fund by government funds when they see the needs. But what no one wants to mention is the profit from the dividend that has been distributed this way by the Croatian Defence Fund has what is called a profit that will be redistributed, and will certainly increase through each year or through the privatisation of the company. This amount of money will also be significantly larger or perhaps double, triple or five times as much in the final. As foreseen by the Fund's founding law. Therefore, there is no need to worry that this will be minimal and that it will not be sufficient. I would like to emphasise just one more thing, and that is that the trusty purpose of establishing the foundation is defined through certain things, and these are providing financial assistance for the heavily vulnerable families of Croatian defenders and members of their families. Provide financial assistance for health care and treatment of severely ill Croatian defenders and members of their immediate family as well as providing financial assistance after the death of Croatian defenders and members of their families. As well as providing financial assistance for the life insurance of Croatian defenders, providing financial assistance to Croatian defenders and members of their families for the acquisition of first profession, requalification, retraining in the system of extraordinary schooling or attending training courses for certain professions. So what Mr. HNS was saying is, in fact, it's also decoded by these items. By providing financial assistance to Croatian defenders and members of their narrow families for employment and self-employment. By providing other types of financial assistance to Croatian defenders and members of their families who achieve the purpose of the foundation. What I'm saying is that the little and the remarks that were made in the first reading and that came and discussed are that I don't think they change things very much. But there is one that is spoken and directed with, in this House, which was the observation that certain articles of the bill are dry, that they do not talk about being, about content, about the metrics, or about which defenders are concerned, so it is proposed that the defenders, or members of their families, have the right to help from the foundation. This remark is not respected and I think it is Article 3. The final draft law set out the purpose of the Foundation, and the purpose of the Foundation is determined in a way that determines the basic conditions under which the Foundation is assisted, grant financial assistance to Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. This article of the final bill shows that the right to financial assistance granted by the foundation will be granted by those Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families who will meet the above mentioned conditions. Therefore, there is no need for this law to be more detailed in determining the conditions for granting financial assistance, since it is a law which aims to establish a foundation. These further details regarding the terms and conditions for the granting of financial assistance are necessary to develop the Regulation. The final draft law provides for sufficient control mechanisms to ensure transparency in the spending of funds. And we note that transparency in spending the trust fund will also be ensured through the fact that the Republic of Croatia is the founder of the foundation. Namely, since the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families has no legal personality, it was not possible to establish a foundation, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on behalf of the founders of the foundation on a regular basis... the work and business of the same. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, I would like to say one more thing about how the associations reacted to the adoption of this law, and I can quickly say that they are extremely pleased with the speed and urgency of this adoption so that in these summer months, those members who need it most, and the children of the dead Croatian defenders, they can apply for a scholarship in the next school year, in the next period. I think these things have been resolved in detail and have expressed their satisfaction by taking part in discussions on the Committee on War Veterans, as well as through the media. And therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community club also thanks for the understanding that they have said about the debate, and we support impeccably that this law is finally passed, and that the satisfaction of Croatian defenders and social security is resolved and further through these two legislative proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68970	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68971	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I am correcting two incorrect allegations of a distinguished colleague named Djakic. The first one's about the Fund. The Fund should not have been set up in general by law, but rather had been a commitment by the Government to its decision. If the Government had done so the Fund would have already acted and these 16 million that are now, will be like the start of the Fund's work out of profits, with 25 that left for the foundation that's 40 million kunas that would have meant something to solve all these problems that have been accumulated. It is also not an accurate finding that the funds are sufficient. They are not sufficient funds because they are not accurate, there is no accurate play for the foundation at this time, or accurate simulation of how many Croatian defenders and members of their families will come forward to obtain funds from the foundation. But I'm saying, a far larger amount of funding would have been if the government had done its part and established the Fund and had not taken out the profits from the shares to solve what it was not legally allowed to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68972	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68973	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Kovacevic has injured Article 209. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament for not correcting my allegations. I have clearly and unequivocally read that Article 55 is. Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families prescribed that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will establish a special fund. It's prescribed. ... I said it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You were saying the government needed a decision. So you're insulting the Rules of Procedure because you're correcting what's not said. And you're saying the wrong allegations. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68974	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68975	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I suggest that an esteemed colleague take a look at his phonogram. He hurt his ankle, broke 209. I've said exactly two, two incorrect allegations that I've corrected about the funds and about the Fund, because the government is, the Fund should not have been established by law, but by the government's decision. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68976	It's unnecessary for you to raise these injuries to the Rules of Procedure all the time. I think so. Let's continue a debate that we started normally. Mr. Marko Shirac, we're moving on to a ten-minute debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68977	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Secretary of State. This law creates conditions for improving the material and economic position, part of the most socially endangered Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Thus, this Law does not address the issue of social assistance and other assistance to all defenders of the Homeland War, but rather to those families and those defenders in a difficult economic and social situation. That's, we all know it's families with a lot of kids where only one member has a job relationship, so it's a little out of retirement or disability, so she's a little girl. If, in addition, such defenders are sick to one of the sick, and not only must it be a war - related disease but there may be another disease. Likewise, if people are not cared for, or here, what it is and in the debate and here already pointed out we have a part of the defender who courageously set up his own activity, his own employment, but at some point he disappeared or lacked the funds for, the craftsmen for further feeding that economy or that craft that this man founded, so here through the provisions of this Law, there is a prerequisite for such people to be helped. The founder of this Foundation is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The bodies of this Foundation are the Management Board, the Manager and his deputy. The Management Board, here is the composition of the Management Board, guarantees one security of the orderly business of this Foundation because the Management Board will have 7 members, which 4 members are appointed from the Croatian Defence Fund, one member is from the Ministry of Defence, one member is from the Ministry of Social Care. The funds for the work of this Foundation have been provided by the Fund with an initial capital of 100 thousand kuna which is quite enough for this Foundation to be registered, and its sources of revenue and the Foundations are from that part of the Fund's income, from the net profit of the Fund to be allocated to one third and shared for this Fund 60 %, and for the grant fund 40 %. Of course, the Foundation can also make other revenues, and I will do it for the second time and at the first reading, I told us representatives of the Croatian Parliament that no one prevents tomorrow when we adopt the state budget for next year we are fighting for one part of the funds to go directly from the budget here, and of course the Foundation can make other revenues as well as all other foundations in the Republic of Croatia. I must point out that the Foundation is a legal person who is responsible for his business with all his assets. Therefore, neither the Government nor the Republic of Croatia nor its authorities are responsible for its business. It is up to the Administrative Council to adopt the Statute, to adopt the Regulation on its work, but to adopt the Regulation under which conditions these funds will be allocated to the category of people socially and economically endangered, here, which is here in this Act and the reasoning of the Law very clearly written. I can only express the satisfaction that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed the adoption of this Act and will certainly support it. And Mr. Vice President, just a few more words about the Fund Act. The Founder of the Fund is also the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but the Fund of course has a second status because it operates according to the provisions governing the operation of the Fund, and the Fund is set up for the scholarship and training of our defenders in a secondary, higher and postgraduate study, meaning the settlement of part of the costs, and these first two parts are about the scholarship of defenders or children or family members of our defenders. The sources of funds are also solidly secured for me because it is 40% of that one-third that is allocated for scholarship. The Fund also has its Management Board. Unlike the Foundation, the chairman of the Management Board is in the position of the defence minister, i.e. not to list the whole name of the family now, and the other members are elected from the Ministry of Education and Members of the Croatian Parliament one and one and four from the Croatian Defence Fund. I think that this is how we should accept the Law as proposed by the Government because this is how we provide resources to finance that part of our defenders' population that really need to be helped and created the conditions that today, tomorrow, are educated people who will be able to fit into our economic system and contribute to the improvement of the country for which their parents or their own parents have fought very hard. I will, of course, support this other law that addresses the issue of the founding of the Fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68978	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Nikola Sopcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68979	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I support the adoption of these two laws, the Law on the Foundation of Croatian Defences as well as the Law on the Fund for the Scholarship of Croatian Defence from the Homeland War and their children and cannot be remembered when we are discussing the proposal of these two laws of my friend with whom I spent a good part of my time at the wartime at Karlovac in Turnje, who then said that the only thing he expects from the Croatian state is if he dies and we win this war to take care of his children, his wife. He took it on an unpaid yearly basis in Slovenia so he could defend his country. Happiness has returned from war uncircumcised and he continues to do his job and care for his family, but the fact that many people who have defended this country have not been so fortunate to come from war uncircumcised, that they can continue to do their job and that is why it is the purpose of all of us to take care of them and their families. And that's the basic reason I support the adoption of these two laws. The Foundation Act itself defines only the purpose of the foundation, there's everything in the law, I don't think it should be counted separately. But perhaps in one paragraph, one formulation is a little vague. This is the provision of financial assistance for the heavily endangered families of Croatian defenders and members of their families. Family members are family members so that the formulation itself is a little vague, maybe you should fix it. There is also a way of managing the foundation itself. I don't think there's much to comment on. When the Croatian Defence Fund is fully summed up, I believe that sufficient resources will also be provided to finance all needs. The fact is, not all defenders will depend on the funds and this trust and this fund, so we assume there will be enough resources for all needs. Here's so short. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68980	Thank you very much. Ms. Representative Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. She's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68981	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Ms. Minister is gone and here she is not in her opposition times beginning any debate that she has not resented the resolute minister who is not in front of the Parliament, and therefore the question is, how do we most like to object to the behavior of others exactly as we know ourselves and love to behave? But let's let it go. I just want to point out something that I think we'll all agree on, that Croatia has definitely not had any luck with the foundations so far. Let's just remember that rescue foundation that had the name "Save the Children of Croatia", which did not end at all rescue or save anyone. On the contrary, it has brought great shame to Croatia itself. Let's also remember the current defense foundation for the arrested generals. The number of giro-accounts of this foundation has been made public, it has been widely promoted, but a huge number of people have not paid for the sight or the lip. They didn't even pay political sheriffs for local self-government units that they don't like to pay for themselves, but they like to bring patriotism through the budget of all citizens. But let's let it go now. Let us return to this foundation and to the Final Proposal of the Law on the Foundation of Defense from the Homeland War and members of their families. I warned before and now, he warned our entire SDP Club but we are not SDP Club that the foundation in the beginning was damaged with 3 hundred million kunas because the law is quite clear. If the dividends had just won by law, they would have come into the trust fund from that moment on, not from the foundation, but with the trust we're so late that the foundation at the beginning was damaged by three hundred million kunas, and that's something that's inadmissible. It is equally unacceptable to ignore just because of the experience Croatia has, which Croatian citizens have in view of the foundations that such a non-shalant cross over serious criticism, what many already warn about intransparency of action. So we only have a guarantee here that there's a foundation that's not a legal person and that's why the government is going to oversee her work. Will the Croatian public know anything about it? Those potential dissatisfactions, who will they be able to eat? Then at least there is the minimum when you did not make this effort to make this provision more transparent, which would then be how much satisfaction of the public and the public interest and on your own user of the foundation that there are then periodically published reports in the management and business of the foundation before the Croatian Parliament i.e. to the public themselves. However, it may be illusory to expect this because it may have been just as it was intended. I say, however, I am warning right now of the dissatisfaction and intransparency that will arise or which can rightly eliminate unwarranted objections from future dissatisfaction, which then did not make the work of the foundation as transparent as it was proposed. However, this occasion also calls for a few words to be said about this particular justice and injustice because when we talk about some rights of defenders, then we see how often they are played and how a great disappointment arises behind great hopes. And just because we'd finally be dealing with some things and something I think we'd come up with and act responsible, exactly because of these people. I think it is precisely because of the most elementary social hygiene that is simply one common and ruling state of debt should finally be revealed, rejected and cleared with a cheap sentimental rhetoric, a rhetoric that has often been pay-pathetic but which has not corrected injustices but has often created new injustices. Maybe here's to reminding ourselves not to let someone like you on the team right now. God forbid, it would then be even more irresponsible behavior than what I want to criticize and not repeat it anymore than because I say with such behavior it should definitely be when it comes to such things, about cases like this to definitely stop. Here, the County Court of Virovitica has decided that Mr. Darko Beštek must return 100 thousand kuna. The gentleman in question was used in the election campaign of HDZ and there was therefore an opportunity to return the leg prosthesis to former Minister Pancic, and let's remember this, and this was precisely used as the greatest evidence of Racan's administration's behaviour against the defenders. And after the formation of the new government as they reported and wrote to our media about journalists, there was quite a moving play where Mr. Prime Minister and Mrs. Kosor were returning the prosthetics of the words, "It didn't happen again." Here today it is quite clear that the SDP did not damage the defenders or this defender. But you see exactly that gentleman at that moment of disappointment, of course, and justifiable anger because he didn't expect something like that, was he angry? To self-proclaimed Croatian drivers, he was better able to resign, which he then later withdrew. But let's let it go now. Let's let it go now, let's turn to those problems that have remained, which have been promised, and that's why me and we as an opposition have the right to remind the authorities of the day of their promise to correct the other injustices and quickly. But precisely because of that and then announced, not only were not announced but then proven pathetics had long been dealt with by such cases and should have been done. Let's remember, and we need to see what's going on with the pulse barracks? With pulse waves, baboons? None of it's been solved yet. That's how you see the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, which might be more appropriate if it was called the Ministry of Pay and Pain for two and a half years now accusing the former ministry of calling it the Ministry of Stepmother and I'm asking you now are you the Ministry of Birth and are you going to solve these problems? So with that more right, you have to ask yourself because it is not you, Mr. Secretary of State, but the Minister has been courting over their fate that the hands of this injustice of cry to heaven have been desperately drawn together, and what happens today? And today those who have received a solution to the use of the apartment, who have been promised that they will now move out. This is what you have in Zadar, Zadar County, and certainly all over Croatia. Now you're referring to the law, and you're right when you say it. Because the existing law in many cases doesn't give them the right. But they still feel deceived because something else was told to them. So let us be very careful in our promises. And a large number of suicides that have unfortunately been done in a very dramatic way as a warning not to repeat it again. So these people who have been completely disappointed, disappointed by the promises, the discretion of what has been said and what has been realized are thus warning for all of us and for you as a government but also for us as an opposition. So here's what I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary of State to welcome Mrs. Secretary to abandon the work of moaning and moaning and, above all, to make an effort to pay as Deputy Prime Minister to this 300 million kuna trust fund that this one, which money belongs to this trust. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68982	Thank you very much. You can welcome Mrs. Secretary in a different way. It doesn't have to be a congratulatory pay phone. Otherwise, you're a traditional producer of correcting incorrect allegations so that 8 of them were produced by one replica. Well, that's your style, you have a right to it, but don't cross the boundaries you also do very often. Very often, very often. ... It's yours, it's yours. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Others disagree that these are the truths you know. Please, I would like to ask you that from one of the debates that we hoped we had an opportunity to talk about important issues in one generally acceptable way, Mrs. MPs each time persistently creates conflicts. That's why I'm asking you to give up these eight replicas so that we don't waste our time and give no reason to keep doing this stuff over and over again. So give your contribution to overcoming this situation, such as in my opinion inappropriate debates, so I would also ask Mrs Zdenko Babić-Petricevic to give up the replica and these 8 who have applied for correction of the incorrect quote. Then, if it's okay with you, we're just going to correct a misstatement and give up the replicas and other corrections of incorrect allegations. To make a contribution and an example of how it can be debated without having to answer to each one. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68984	Mr. Vice President, fellow Members of the Antičević Croatian Children's Foundation is not a disgrace to the Croatian state but a humanitarian association that lasts for 15 years. So I'll be quick to read what's been done, and it's a shame to you that she's the president of Mrs. Tudjman's Foundation, and I'm proud to be the head of the foundation. In 15 years of my work, I will now pass you along as fellow MPs in writing what has been done. So far, 5,000 children have been included. In the beginning, the humanitarian association for children of Croatia helped children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War since the beginning of 1990. Afterwards, we helped the children and still more members of the family. Every year special assistance is to homes for carefree children. This year a month ago I was in Knin and another colleague was in Gospić. A third colleague was in Osijek, the fourth in Zabok, special equipment for pediatrics in the hospitals concerned. Then, Madam colleagues, any humanitarian association that works and works in Croatia if it helps one child and parents, and not rob and don't mention those words, so if you want our committee, Parliament's Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Relationships to give us a solution on the additional stamp and each year you get a report on our work and you can request a full financial report, then talk about the trust that is not and you are disturbed by the name Tudjman. I know, you can't get over him. ... He broke the country, it's hard to have a country. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I know that because I wasn't 50 years old.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68985	At 13 and 10 minutes, it's past 10 minutes' notice. We're continuing the debate. Thank you for giving up replicas and corrections. State Secretary Mr Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68986	I would, however, like to say a few words about these inaccuracies presented by the distinguished representative Mrs Anticevic. First, Madam Vice-President is at a government meeting that is under way and as far as I know it is still impossible to despite her technique at the same time to be in two places, but there is my petty state secretary who, of course, has all the powers to represent both the Vice President and the Ministry. Mrs. Anticevic, of course, and this time as last time in the debate, is the data that are completely incorrect and I don't know where she gets that data from here. It's not 300 million kunas that are said to be controversial, it's 200 million kuna dividends, and the government has made it clear when it comes to dividends. The government's position is also supported by the profession to make dividends come true from the moment the fund was set up. The fund was founded and from that moment on, all dividends were properly seated in the fund. As for Mr. Bestek, the Bestek case became the moment when the former minister accused Bestek and some other disabled people of being falsely disabled that it was an absurd thing to accuse the man who lost his leg in the war, of being a disabled person. Whether or not someone has the right to know who is determining and it has absolutely nothing to do with what Minister Pancic at the time claimed that Beštek was a false military invalid and therefore was Mr Bestek's reaction and the return of prosthetics. And this final verdict shows that before the Croatian courts, all praise God is equal no matter what his name is. But that's not the point. The point is that Mr. Beštek lost that right for a variety of procedural reasons. He achieved it in 2004 and has the right to care and help of another person for two years. As for the promises made by this government to Croatian defenders, almost all of them have been fulfilled, and these two laws are also in this function, improving their social, material and any other position. But what's most important in the whole story is the change of attitude towards Croatian defenders. They are no longer a category of suspicions that are constantly being pursued, declared to be privileged or privileged, and I think the best talk about it is actions, not political qualifications or passwords. Let me just mention two examples. The government in the previous year paid back the debt to Croatian defenders under the '97 law. and the 2001 law. So from the legal provisions passed by the former government that has done nothing for three years on this issue. When it comes to the Valovina case and solving problems in Valovina, this is a case that has practically been done by the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity under the laws and regulations. All Croatian defenders who were in Valovina and under the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers are resolved. So, they've all been resolved in the last year by the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity. The others are there who, under the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence, have no right to housing, and it is absurd to accuse the vice-president of the government and the minister of the family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity of not doing something she has no legal authority to do. She did everything she could under legal means. And not to be too long, I think that these two laws that are in the second reading at the Croatian Parliament today are proof of both the seriousness and responsibility in the work of this government and in fulfilling everything that has been promised to Croatian defenders and through the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence, and even if you want through promises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68987	Thank you very much. We have two corrections first Mr. Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68988	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I'm correcting the inaccuracies of the secretary of state regarding the HT dividend. Namely, that part was due to be paid back in 2003 because the Croatian Defence Fund was then established and therefore the HSP Club was and requested authentic interpretation of both the government and the former and none of them acted legally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68989	Correction by Mrs. Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68990	Mr. Secretary of State Tomislav Ivić incorrectly claimed that former Minister Pancic challenged Mr. Bestek's disability, or the status of a disabled war. That's not true. What was disputed was the aid and care allowance that the court now claimed was unlawfully receiving what was confirmed by Mr. Beštek himself by resigning, so then you finally made peace with him. So I'm just asking you not to manipulate the man you've already manipulated enough anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68991	Look, which is why there's no echo to my request to end this inappropriate commentation of the disabled Homeland War. That's why I apologize to all my representatives of my party, and here I am now speaking as chairman. But as HDZ's reported now, I will no longer beg to give up the replica, correcting the incorrect allegations because I felt that this example would be for others, not just for this right side. ... The selective truth isn't. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] We're MPs, and I've been begging you that as agents, we don't have any unnecessary tensions... The secretary gave his opinion as a representative of the government and you can, you could have called. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Please, you could have reported to Mr. Antesic about correcting the incorrect allegations, if he told the truth, not the bench tossing out how they were telling the truth. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Let's move on. It's Mr. Representative Vladimir Stengl's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68992	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Law on the Croatian Defence Fund of the Homeland War and members of their families stipulates that 1/3 of the net gain of the Fund from investments is intended for development, social and humanitarian measures to improve the status of Croatian defenders and members of their families. Under this law, the Governing Board of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families decided in agreement with the Government of the Republic of Croatia that 60% and 1/3 of the net gains are directed at the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families, while the remaining 40% directs to the Croatian Defence Fund and children of Croatian defenders. We are unfortunately witnesses that situations arise when certain defenders or members of their families are suspended for these or those reasons in the exercise of their rights for the simple reason that the law did not foresee something and that they may be considered as an exception or an exception rather than a bad intention of the law. This, of course, causes dissatisfaction with the damaged, it is justified, and on the other hand it is relatively easy to resolve by putting it in some legal frameworks. For example, I also said this in the debate in the first reading post-traumatic stress disorder is not fiction but a harsh reality, and the solutions offered by these two proposed laws should also be taken into account. The merits of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War are unquestionable and unquestionable and the exercise of the rights of defenders cannot and must not be questioned to the least. Unfortunately, there are often conclusions about defenders based on some exceptions and cases, under quotes, which are controversial, but then it is skillfully used to criticise defences. This must be avoided at all costs. And just the right and fair way to distribute the funds for the purposes that these two laws provide is a prerequisite that such unwanted situations do not happen. The criteria must be the same for the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia, not possibly one or the other association, better or weaker standing, the will of individuals or those who are closer to the fire is better heated. Care for Croatian defenders and members of their families must be comprehensive in detail, even at the cost of frequent or frequent changes and additions to the law, if necessary and if it will have the right effect. And that is exactly how it is wanted to do and for the sake of proving the process of proposing and passing these two laws which both the Ministry and the Government and finally this House of Highers show and prove their relationship with Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. For that and for these reasons, without reservation, I support the adoption of these two laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68993	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68994	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In his presentations, Mr. Stengl explained well and explained what these two proposed laws are doing. But here he did not mention that these laws do not offend Croatian defenders, do not call the fake disableds in front of TV cameras, does not diminish the president of the state who himself bowed down when informed that Darko Beštek, Nojko Marinović, General Čuk and the other 5 people who were called false disabled. And President Mesic succumbed to the lies and delusions of your Minister Pancic who clearly, unequivocally read it in front of TV cameras, and later President Mesic apologized to Nojko Marinovic, but did not. It was your job, your nicknames frequent and daily confiscation of the rights of thousands and some dead Croatian defender and their parents you took... /Intruder: This is a reminder./ [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68995	I don't think this was a replica of the one he was talking about, because it was headed this way to the left right now. The other thing is, the truth can be told better. So I don't think we can accept that kind of speech, use the words, "you're lying" or anything like that. It's not appropriate, no matter who it's about. And that's why, Mr. Djakic, if that happens again, then we'll have to do something else. It's not right, and I think you should understand that the truth that's justified can be more appropriate, respecting colleagues and not using such an extreme dictionary. I'm begging you. Let's not go any further.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68996	Mr. President, I ask you to give me a reminder of these words. I'm staying with them, and I'd be honored to get this notice.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68997	I don't give a warning about it. Here's what you said before you took your word for it without getting it. That's why you got the warning. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I hope this afternoon's vacation will quiet down a little bit like this and after lunch at 3:00, or at 3:00, we'll continue the session. And the first is in debate Mr. Tomislav Culjak, then Velimir Dance and so on. Thank you very much. It's 1:00 P.M. Ladies and gentlemen, before I continue the session for the minutes, I am obliged to apologize to Mrs Zdenko Babić Petricevic, Mark Širc, Peri Kovacevic, Kai Bucan, Mr Tomislav Čuljka, Ivan Bagarić, Andrija Hebrang and Josip Djakić for not allowing them to correct the incorrect allegations in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Obviously I was wrong because the development of events later confirmed that I shouldn't have asked you to, although you could have insisted on it because we don't have adequate answers on the other side. So I apologize to everyone I asked and denied actually a word for correcting incorrect allegations. For the record in the House, ma'am, I apologize to my colleagues for allowing them to give up and for asking them to give up, and for you again, personally, personally. Please, from now on we will stick to the Rules of Procedure and we will not altruistically pray for correctness, but we will allow everyone to get what they have because it is obvious that Mr Kovacevic and I have apologized to you as well. Let's move on. It's Mr. Representative Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u68999	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here's by listening to the debate in the clubs and the debates that took place and which were very positive I thought I'd give up the debate, but here's what I want to say after the debate of my colleague, Ingrid Anticevic. Of course, without opening the controversy, because she didn't actually have any objections to the law herself, but pure politicisation on her part, but of course we've already learned that. I believe that the adoption of the Law on the Foundation of the Defense of the Homeland War and members of their families, as well as the Fund for the Scholarship of Croatian Defences from the Homeland War and Children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War fully fulfils the expectations and needs of the defenders. The foundation of the foundation and the fund will improve the material and social security of Croatian defenders and members of their families. In particular, this applies to those defenders who cannot be subject to the provisions of the Law on the Rights of Defence and of members of their families. It is mainly about defenders with multi-member families where no one is employed or in families with members who are seriously ill, and their standard of living is much lower. What is extremely important for both me and everyone in this assembly should be that the adoption of the law has been supported by all the defense associations and that the law is both unanimously supported by the War Veterans Committee. I was convinced that he would also be unanimously accepted by all MPs during the vote of this law, but after the debate we heard here, which was completely unnecessary from counterpart Anticevic, I am not sure that he will be voted unanimously. But here's a chance that when there's a vote on that law, we all support that law. This law is in the interest of all Croatian defenders and I hope they will receive undivided support without any politicisation in this Croatian House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69000	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Velimir Pleša's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69001	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families provides for a certain level of material and social security which, unfortunately, is not always enough to address individual, specific problems in which, despite all the prescribed defence rights that this law solves, a part of the defence population that is a lower standard of living is found. And that is why I am convinced that these proposed laws, in particular the Law on the Foundation of the Homeland War defenders and members of their families, are one of the laws that gives us certain assurances that this part of the defence population will also be found in these funds provided by this law and within this foundation that part of their legal certainty and the resolution of the specific problems that they face in their lives. The incomes that could be addressed in solving the material problems of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, that is, all that can contribute to their social security are those that are part of the rules that must be resolved by some other law, such as by adopting this law, and not only by the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. However, I would like to say something else, which is that I am looking at the money that, in this way, this law as well as the Law on the Fund for the scholarship of children and defenders from the Homeland War, provides this law with the means that, in some way, are the initial assets that would come from these sources to address these problems. But in any case, it is necessary to raise funds from other sources attributed to one and other laws, which are attributed from the sources of donations and other sources that are prescribed by law, because if they were left with only real funds prescribed to get 60% of one third of the net from investments intended for development and social and humanitarian measures to improve the status is directed into the trust, and 40% of the same third of the fund, I think that would be very, very small and insufficient if they were kept on these means only because I tried, there were already speeches about it to calculate precisely when it comes to the fund and those at this point 16 million 865 thousand 541 kuna, and if these funds were actually used by the number of users 4 and a half thousand it turns out to you monthly 312 kuna per individual user. If the funds were not provided in another way that I am convinced that they would want to provide, then it would not be enough and I do not think that in this way no one would be satisfied with such a law that has primarily one humane purpose to solve all those problems that I initially tried to say that, unfortunately, with the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders, there are still Croatian defenders, their children and families who cannot solve all the problems they face in everyday life. I will, of course, support this Law and I believe that the adoption of both laws means the Law on the Fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, as well as the Law on the Foundation of Defence from the Homeland War and members of their families, another step towards solving all the problems that the defence population has faced and unfortunately still faces in these years, now 11 years after the end of the war operations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69002	Thank you very much. It is Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69003	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. The final proposal of the Law on the National War Foundation and members of their families as well as the Final Proposal of the Law on the Fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders from the Homelandskg war are actually laws which we can freely call and which can, in our name, bear and save children of Croatia or better help children of Croatia. In doing so, I think that Croatian defenders are children and their children children of Croatia. The mission of one and the other laws is to support the most vulnerable groups of Croatian defenders, victims of the Homeland War and their children as well as support in everyday life needs, support in their regular education and professional orientation, support in employment and self-employment. Therefore, the Fund and the Fund are established with a view to achieving social and educational impacts. Recently we also had a good law from the Croatian government in this House, the Law on adult education. It is in some ways compatible entirely with this Law because it actually offers education and adults and those who try to reach them. These laws are the ones that need more than others to be a show of goodwill and unity between the Government and the Croatian Parliament, authorities and opposition, and regardless of some dissonant individual tones as we have heard this morning uncontested unanimity about these important issues, and when it comes to the administration, i.e. the administrative structure of the funds and the Foundation, then it should be open to me to the most prominent except for these members who are listed here, the most prominent members of this society, scientists, businessmen, entrepreneurs, artists, athletes or how we like to say it by the stars or even simpler said by these bodies and through these bodies we need to build new values and social prestige just as those who were participants in a commendable derby, here among us colleagues of Arapović or the music spectacle "white music against drugs". I believe that the challenge could be, for example, for one Bell Boban, Tony Kukoč, scientists of the type Matko Marusic, recently mentioned here about his book, to be an honorary member even if it is an honorary member of such a foundation, because when it comes to funding a trust and a fund in Article 14, it is stated that the funds of the Fund are being allocated from the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and other funds and are being mentioned as gifts. If we manage these resources effectively and in a way that is acceptable and in accordance with the law, then strengthening the economic power of the Croatian man will be an incentive to actually invest its resources, to participate in the means of those people who can, therefore, be their pleasure and honor to support one such fund, one such fund, so that they can actually be participants in handing out the most that they can do, and that is for the defence and independence of the Republic of Croatia, that is, the state in which they and their children live. Finally, it was too much to say except to show another satisfaction by passing these two important laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69004	Thank you very much. Ms. Representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69005	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, Honorable Madam Representatives and Representatives. The final proposal of the Law on the Fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War is a great contribution to solving the problem of the defence population. By this law, the Croatian Government solves a burning problem and fulfills its promise to work to protect the dignity of the Homeland War and to care for the defenders and their children as well as to care for children whose parents have pawned their lives for Croatia, which also supports the fact that only a month has passed since the debate on the bill today. During the adoption of the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund, representatives of the Associations of Homeland War defenders discussed the proposal for a working group with the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. The final draft law, which is before us for its content, has the provision of Article 29(2) of the law, which stipulates that a third of the net revenue will be allocated to development social and humanitarian measures to improve the status of Croatian defenders and members of their families. The Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families, in agreement with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, has decided to get 40% of the net from the aforementioned third to the Homeland War Foundation for the scholarship of Croatian defenders and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. This law establishes a fund with the purpose of exercising the right to scholarship during regular high school education, regular university and professional study and the right to compensation for part of the cost of tuition, following graduate studies at higher universities of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, children of the deadly victims of Croatian defenders, children of prisoners or missing Croatian defenders, Croatian wartime invalids and children of Croatian wartime disabled persons from the Homeland War, volunteers, children of volunteers from the Homeland War. I don't think there's anyone among us who doesn't support this intention of the law. There are even stronger reasons for the state to take care of the scholarship of children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War who are multiplely suspended in normal education. It will take a lot of effort and resources for such children to create conditions for such children to be involved in a knowledge society. I will vote in favour of this final bill and I think it is a major step in the Croatian social state to help those categories of our population that have suffered a great burden in the Homeland War. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69006	Thank you. Representative Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69007	Dear Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! Of course, two important ideas and two important proposals that take place for a large group of Croatian citizens should be supported. I will start with one data published yesterday in the newspaper and he says that during last year he graduated from higher and higher schools in Croatia 18 thousand diplomats, which is 0.4% of the population structure. If we take the information that came out of the 2001 census that we have in the population structure of Croatia only 7% higher and highly educated citizens, then this 0.4% far from contributes to what I think our goal is to significantly increase the share of highly educated in the population structure. We had a chance to talk to colleagues from the Swedish Parliament yesterday, where Sweden set its goal of having 50% of the population with a higher, higher and higher school by 2000. They unfortunately have not achieved that goal by 2006 but have reached 47% more and highly educated citizens of Sweden. Obviously, there is one major correlation between the structure and the degree of education of citizens and gross national income. Therefore, the higher the percentage of citizens who will go as far and further as possible in their education will obviously have an impact on the economic growth of the state. So every idea, and especially if it's based on a law that will allow us to have a certain amount of money directly for a scholarship, I think it's commendable for education. So here for the first time, we have one law that defines that a significant amount of funding will be allocated to the scholarship of students and students. However, I think this idea was nevertheless meant to shape the ministry into better legal proposals. I think nomotechnically and in substance very badly these two laws are written. It's almost identical texts or identical ideas, and it's even asking why both funds aren't called foundations, why the scholarship fund is called a fund and this is called a trust fund. It could have been called each other's trust and could have been almost identical texts. Unfortunately, indeed, someone in the ministry has made no effort to write two good texts of the law for such good two ideas. The texts of the law are really bad. For example, when we talk about the final proposal of the Law on the Fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders in Article 3, it is said that the founding rights on behalf of the Republic of Croatia are realised by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, while the same article in the foundation is said to be the founder of the Foundation of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, I see no reason why it was not written here that the founder of the Republic of Croatia Fund and then that the founding rights and obligations on behalf of the Republic of Croatia are realised by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Well, my colleagues! So we're talking here about the text of a law that's ahead of us and an idea that needs to be made possible to allow a large number of students to decide to go to high school and that a large number of students are enrolled so that they don't have a material impediment to not finish colleges, to motivate them to finish college. This is also why it is possible that this text of the law should also set out whether the basic criterion for granting scholarships will be a social criterion or will be a criterion of excellence and in which the correlation between these two criteria will affect the granting of scholarships. And that's why these are two texts, two bad text laws for such a good idea. And how bad the text of the law tells you in Article 6 where it says that the President of the Management Board of the Fund is in charge of the defence ministers and then it is said that the Government of the Republic of Croatia can resolve the President of the Fund because it does not come to meetings. So why is he not coming to the meetings to resolve him and the position of minister? If the law defines that the minister is in charge of defenders in the position of the chairman of the Management Board. It is said that someone did not bother to read the entire law and write it as a whole. Or in Article 7, you have paragraph 6 says that the board of directors adopts a rule on the procedure for granting a scholarship to the part of the tuition fees of postgraduate studies. You don't have the law to pass a rule on the scholarship procedure for high school. I suppose that sentence was supposed to say that, according to the rules on the procedure of granting a scholarship for secondary schools, higher and higher, vocational schools and postgraduate studies, not only for postgraduate studies. But we can't have laws like this in another reading on, here on our benches. Furthermore, I would suggest that it be considered before the vote. I don't see any reason why we're starting high school. I think part of our students have a problem with elementary school as well. It is free and it is mandatory for, mandatory as opposed to high school but I don't think there would be any reason not to install here, so this law applies to elementary school as well. So primary school, secondary, higher and higher, professional studies, postgraduate and doctoral studies. Let's not, let's not, don't answer me now that the primary school will be provided with material resources from the foundation. The Foundation is indeed for improving the material position of Croatian defenders but I see no reason why the elementary school would not be in...... Do you have a kid in primary school? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I don't know, then my kid's looking for some money for that school, you know. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] From the textbook on. It's also free and high school. The same way is free high school, right? It's exactly the same. So I suggest, I've also suggested a few amendments that should correct this, this lewdness in writing the law. Similarly, I think that Article 7 should say that the rules on scholarship are being adopted, and then the continuation of all that should be there and thus the need to have an article 21 at all, because I see no reason for the Minister of Education to bring standards and criteria for granting scholarships if we have the board of directors of that fund. As far as the foundation is concerned, I think there are a few things that should be done in law. This is primarily to be called a public competition by the trustee. I think it is a very important duty for the director of the Croatian Defence Foundation to appoint him a board of directors at a constitutive session. I think it is necessary to install in article 10 that the trustee be appointed as the basis of a public tender. Furthermore, Article 16 should be amended to submit the report to the Government, and I would ask and it would be good for the Assembly to receive a report once a year on the work of the trust and on the work of the fund. Unfortunately, these laws are not designed even for the government to receive a report on the work of the foundation but should only be given to the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War, which, based on its decision, transfers some of its profits from the fund to this, to the foundation and to the scholarship fund. But he does not control how it is financially done, but we as representatives of the founders should therefore, during the year, have the right to be informed about how these two funds work. And I certainly think that this Foundation Act lacks a provision on public work that is incorporated into the Fund Act, so the work of the Foundation must be fully public and information must be made available to citizens and the public. Here I am indeed going to support these two laws especially because I think the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund will encourage young people to go as far as possible in education so that they graduate from higher and higher schools and improve the education structure of Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69008	Thank you. We have one replica of Mr. Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69009	Dear Mr. President, I don't know where my colleague used the data according to official data 7.87% is in Croatia people who have completed high and higher school, not 7% as you said and 15.76% is persons who don't have a finished primary school at all. But here, I haven't heard from you as much as it does the fact that you're a little confused around here. You've mixed up the trust and trust fund. Namely, if you had read the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers of the Homeland War, Article 54 would have spoken differently. Because Article 54 provides for this right to scholarship. And Article 55 said it would be established for these intentions of the fund. And the foundation comes from the Fund Act from, the Croatian defender and this second part for those humanitarian and other things related to profits. If you'd read that, we wouldn't have been confused. So it's either the one who wrote you a speech or yourself who didn't read the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families or the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund. So second time means you read it yourself or the one who writes to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69010	The answer... Here you go. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69011	My colleague Kovacevic doesn't write me my speeches. You, you'd do well to listen to what I say sometimes, wouldn't you? I didn't say it wasn't called exactly. I said it would be better if it was called, I would, so listen to what I'm saying is that it's called a foundation. Thus, the Law on Croatian Defences could also say that it is not called the Charitables Fund but a foundation because it is essentially the Foundations under the Foundations Act. You need to see, you need to base everything on the law. The trickery of these proposals is that you have no legal basis. I don't even know how this went with the Legislative Committee. Because if the Legislative Committee had looked at it then he would have said that it had to be based on some laws, so probably on the Foundation Act, and I won't do the rest. So it's about the essence. The Law on Croatian Defences and the Scholarship Fund could be amended, or it could be organised as a trust and be called a fund. It's not about not reading, but it's very different. Just as you didn't understand the data about the number, the structure of the population. I wasn't comparing 7 to 7.80, I was comparing 7 to 47. And there's no connection to that 0.8.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69012	Let's move on. It is Mrs Zdenka Babic-Petricevic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69013	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, I will briefly refer to two proposed laws or the Fund and Foundation Act. The history of a nation is not what it deserves, nor is the fate of a man as individuals deserve. The Croatian people did not deserve aggression on the Republic of Croatia from 1991 to 1995, or in '98. For years, neither those children who have lost their fathers, or parents, deserve such a destiny. In the history or life of a man, something can be bought, something cannot be bought. Parental love can never be bought, but there is someone who has entrusted us representatives in the Croatian Parliament, Croatian Government regardless of party membership and the Croatian state to take care of those and their children, their families who gave their lives to the Altar homeland. And this is one way, and I'm happy to accept these two proposals and trusts and funds. And I'm not gonna argue in the end. The predecessors have shown you, Mr. Secretary of State, something that is questionable and doubtful in the hope that the foundation of their regulations or statutes will also draw what has been questionable for us, and these are criteria, and they will delight me in a few years from now that what we want will happen, that children of Croatian defenders should not be at the expense of our indifference, but of our wealth.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69014	Thank you. Does the secretary of state want it? Yeah. State Secretary Mr. Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69015	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I would thank you in the end for this debate on these two significant laws for the defense population. The amendments that have arrived, of course, will also be considered, if necessary, if there is a real need to put them into the law. But I only wanted to say two things because through this debate, there was a lot of talk about how questionable these funds are enough to implement one law and another. However, here we should count on the fact that the Croatian Defence Fund and the Croatian Defence Fund have not yet been transferred to all shares of companies that, through the privatisation process, should be transferred to the Croatian Defence Fund so that the value of the Fund will be significantly higher, and thus the profit of the Fund will be greater. So, in the perspective, you can count on more resources than they are at this point, and at this point they're quite enough that both the fund and the foundation start to work. And the other thing is, it's not true there won't be any information about work and trust and trust. It's a legal obligation. The draft law shows that the Management Boards should submit a report to the Government of the Republic of Croatia on business and trusts and funds by 30 April. So thank you very much again for the debate. We will consider these amendments and I hope and I believe that both laws will be adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69016	Thank you very much. I hereby conclude the debate and inform that the chairman of the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction, Dragutin Pukleš, called for tomorrow at 9 a.m. on Friday at Josip Jelačić's hall for a meeting of the Committee, and Mrs Nevenka Majdanić, chairman of the Committee on Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs, informs that the scheduled session is being postponed until 9 a.m. on 30 June.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69017	Final bill of law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families. The amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Mršić. Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister, Family and Intergenerational Solidarity Jadranka Kosor. The amendment, there are several amendments to Zvonimir Mrsic. Amendment 1 to Article 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69018	Mr. President, the government does not accept this amendment. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Act on Foundations and Foundations is laid down that the Statute of the Foundation must contain provisions on the procedure for the establishment and resolution of trust authorities and the procedure for the appointment of the Directors of the Foundation and its alternate will also be regulated by the Statute of the Foundation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69019	There is no representative of Mršić. We have to vote. Come on, come on, come on, come on, We can vote. The result? 27 votes in favor. Three abstentions. 66 against. It wasn't adopted. Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69020	Mr. President, the government does not accept this amendment. The explanation is the same as with the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69021	The vote. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 27 for. Three abstentions. 64 against. No proposed amendment was adopted. Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69022	Mr. President, we would like to accept this amendment, but we suggest that since Agent Mršić has proposed that this be article 13a for a better nomotechnical arrangement for the amendments to read: "The work of the Foundation is public. It is mandatory for the public, means of public communication and, upon request, to provide information on the performance of its activities" of the installation as paragraphs 6 and 7 of Article 2 of this Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69023	All right, it's nomotechnics. That's it, the amendment has been accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69024	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69025	It becomes an integral part of the Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69026	So the content of the amendment...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69027	Nomtechnically classified only A classy one in this part. [[Intruder: Yes.]] Okay. Thank you very much. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 95 votes for and 2 abstentions, the proposed law together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69104	We're going to the agenda point 17. Proposal for a Arms Act, first reading of P.Z.E. No. 522; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the Committee on Gender Equality. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Ivica Buconjic, state secretary at the interior ministry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69105	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here you are facing the debate of a law that has recently been talked about a lot, especially this topic that regulates the issue of holding, carrying and using firearms has been updated in cases where severe violations and weapons abuse have occurred, which unfortunately has been several cases of multiple murders in Croatia lately. So, the reason for this proposal for the Weapons Act is, above all, an attempt to introduce more order into holding, carrying and using firearms, but also the harmonisation of legislation that regulates the issue of arms with European directives. I will try only briefly to list the most important changes that are foreseen by this Bill on Weapons in relation to the situation so far. The decision to be, to pass a new law and not to amend the laws was made because since 1993, since the adoption of the first Arms Act, several changes have been made, so it was very difficult to follow the legal provisions that regulate this important issue in view of the number of changes, so we felt that it was best to go into the adoption of the new law. So, the most important changes that are foreseen by the proposal for this law are the introduction of a four-category weapons classification, and so far there has been no such classification. This classification was carried out by the European Directive on the control of the supply and holding of weapons of 18. Six. In 1991, and by it, weapons are divided like I said in four categories. Category A and B of point 7 is a forbidden weapon. Category B of points 1 to 6 of Category C and category D of points 1 to 5 shall be authorised for weapons for which prior approval is required. Category D of points 2 to 4 shall be allowed for weapons to be declared to the competent authority, and weapons of category D of points 6 to 9 shall be permitted for which no approval of the competent authority is required. So this proposal introduces weapons classification in view of its characteristics, so that a category of weapons is introduced that cannot be realised at all. A category of weapons whose holding and carrying is permitted with prior authorisation shall be introduced. One category shall then be allowed, only with the notification of the competent authority and category D, to arms for which no approval of the competent authority is required. The application obligation was also introduced for the first time. This is the weapon that, given its characteristics, cannot serve for more serious crimes, but it has been an emergency that as many weapons as possible we can get through the records so that, in the event of abuse, we can find a possible perpetrator of the crime by means of a weapon. Then what was also one of the reasons and motives for amending the law, namely the adoption of this new law, is that the conditions for the supply of weapons were tightened, precisely because of those ugly things and serious crimes that have taken place in the last few years, especially where the victims were women and children. So the conditions for the supply of weapons have been tightened. Namely, he cannot obtain the weapons of a person who has been punished for the offences and offences of the Family Protection Act, since very often the weapon was most severely misused by both the code and the domestic abusers. Also, general conditions introduce the obligation to verify knowledge handled by weapons and to know the rules for all gun holders. So far, it has been up to now that only those who seek permission to hold and carry arms have to go through this training, while under this law, all individuals and individuals who would ask permission to hold and not to carry weapons would have to be trained. One of the important newspapers is that the validity of a medical examination is reduced from 10 to 5 years old. So a person who has a license to hold or carry a weapon should go for a medical examination every five years, not like 10. We consider this equally justified that we want to shorten the period within which the health control of people holding arms will be carried out, because we believe and this is the practice that has shown that during too long periods, a change in health status can occur which affects the ability of responsible carrying arms. Arms are removed to hold weapons as a memory, as it has been so far, and these weapons can be permanently disabled. And one of the major news is also testing, marking and checking the technical correctness of the weapon. Namely, most of the weapons registered in Croatia are marked with a stamp, it has been checked, but we also have one piece of weapon that has neither been marked nor checked its technical correctness. This new practice provided for in the law would have to mark all weapons with a stamp, would have to carry out its technical correctness test and its examination. We believe that this would make a significant contribution to security, primarily by the users themselves, or by the owner of the weapons. But to introduce much more discipline among the people who hold firearms at home. It shall also allow for the disenfranchisement of registered weapons to authorised persons with the approval of the MUP to carry out the activities of repair and repair of weapons. So far, no such possibility has existed. It also introduces a weapons booklet to which all technical data on weapons will be entered, which we feel is equally important in order to ensure that gun owners have to act responsibly, seriously, knowingly, that they must maintain it properly and that in any case, it is justified as a new obligation by the owner. The issue of carrying and transporting weapons following the entry of the Republic of Croatia into full membership of the European Union has been regulated by the delay of these articles, which has been postponed until the entry into the European Union. However, the possibility of entry and export, i.e. transit through the Republic of Croatia, is envisaged in accordance with European practice. It is also one of the great newspapers that introduces voluntary surrenders of forbidden and authorised weapons according to a different model. In fact, so far there have been several legalisations of weapons, but it has not been such a possibility for some time to return either legal or illegal weapons. We believe that all weapons owners, regardless of how they acquired it, should be able to return the weapons, because it is the interest of the Republic of Croatia to return as many illegal, unregistered weapons as possible. If they are not prevented, or imposed sanctions for persons who are illegally holding weapons, we believe that there could be a significant return to a larger number of weapons that are now being held without the necessary approval, or documentation. It also provides for an additional six-month period from the date of entry into force of this arms legalisation law. So if people possess weapons that they can get permission to hold and carry, they can do that legalisation within six months of the day of entry into force of this law. Here, these were, in short, the most important news to me that was foreseen by this proposal of the Arms Act, and once again I repeat, we had two goals. One goal was to comply with the European Union directives, and the other was to try to bring order into this area, given the too many abuses of firearms, where women, i.e. families, are the most common victims, there are other cases of abuse. But no matter who the victim was, every time a weapon is misused into question comes the lives of most innocent people. This is why we propose that this law be adopted in a regular procedure so that even moreover, through the debate in the first and second readings, one or more solutions that would contribute to a better regulation of this extremely significant topic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69106	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? They do. On behalf of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, President Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69107	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security at the 72nd session held on 26 June 2006 discussed the proposal for a Law on Weapons and Committee members are familiar with the reasons and interests for which the adoption of the law in question is proposed. The proposer points out that the problem of illegal possession of the production, trade and trafficking of weapons in the Republic of Croatia is still current, therefore a series of measures are laid down by this Act to prevent and combat illegal production, procurement and possession and all other abuses in connection with weapons and explosive substances more effectively. The Committee supported the position of representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and pointed out in particular the need for stricter sanctioning illegal weapons possession. The Committee assesses that this legislative proposal represents an adjustment to European legislation on arms and that it better and more effectively regulates the supply, possession and control of weapons, and thus starts the security of citizens. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously decided to submit a conclusion to the Croatian Parliament: the proposal for a Arms Act is adopted in the text as proposed by the legislator of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69108	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Committee on Gender Equality, Madam President Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69109	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Gender Equality discussed the proposal of the Weapons Act in its first reading as an interested body. In his opening statement, he pointed out that this proposal for a law is in line with the regulations of the European Union, and the adoption of it would certainly contribute to greater security and protection of citizens of the Republic of Croatia, bearing in mind that since '92. For many years, he changed the Arms Act, and all these changes tried to ensure better quality control of illegal weapons. In a comprehensive debate, the members and members of the Committee supported the adoption of this Law, which follows the path of countering the increasing violence in society, especially in the family. The following opinions, comments and proposals were presented in the debate. The adoption of this law will not fully address the issue of illegal weapons possession, and it also concerns the fact that about 90% of the crimes committed have been committed by illegal weapons. With regard to Article 10(2) of point 5, I would ask only my colleagues a little more quietly. Thank you. For the purposes of Article 10(2) of point 5, it is necessary in a clear and unequivocal manner to specify what the wording of a disturbed family relationship means, who makes an assessment of it, and in order to make discretionary decision impossible or at least reduce it to as little measure as possible. Article 10(2) of point 7 prohibiting the granting of authorisation for the supply of arms to a person who has objected to a conscience for the regulation of the military period raises the question as to why such a person could not, for example, be a member of a hunting society or engage in recreational shooting and possess the legal weapon used for that purpose, if he did not refer to the conscience as a reason. A positive assessment of the solution to this Bill, which will mark the weapons and check the technical accuracy of the weapons as such solution will contribute to faster detection of the perpetrators of criminal offences. It pointed out the need to repeat the previously known actions of the MUP on voluntary handover of weapons in order to enable, within that period of 6 months provided for in this Act for the voluntary handover of weapons, and certainly before the launch of the investigation of criminal offences in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Act, those who illegally possess it to return the weapons without punishment. It is pointed to the need for a clear democratic and flexible legal arrangement of this matter because the Law on prescribed restrictions has often led to the opposite effect as well as the necessity of the cooperation of the competent authorities of which it is necessary to deliver an act when applying and to issue authorisation for the supply of arms in order to break the practice so far for citizens to carry out administrative work instead of civil servants. The opinion was also expressed that criminal provisions should increase the penalty rate for both natural and legal persons. The members and members of the Committee have decided after the debate to propose to the Croatian Parliament that the proposal for the Weapons Act be adopted in the first reading, and all opinions, objections and proposals shall be submitted to the applicant in order to prepare the final proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69110	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Happy Ferenchuck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69111	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's what I have to say at first, and I also have to express my satisfaction that the government has been ahead of us. We have also prepared a proposal to amend and supplement the Arms Act, but here's the government rarely fulfilled one of its promises and I congratulate and thank you for this proposal that you have referred to in the parliamentary procedure, and then we will not even bring our proposal into debate. The HNS Club may support the proposed legislative text in the first reading after reading the legislative proposal and the discussions already held on the committees in charge, since it is in one part consistent with the provisions which we have proposed in our proposal to amend and supplement the Law, but now I will not talk about those parts that match here. In principle, we welcome... to bring the whole area in line with the standards that apply to most Western countries, i.e. to better quality issues that are important for the personal safety of each of us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We also support every effort that contributes to general security in the country, better regulates provisions that bring greater control, obtaining weapons permits and tightening penalties for offenders. But despite the fact that we believe that the new Bill on Weapons is better equipped with certain issues, we must point out that our support for the legal text is in no way unconditional, i.e. we believe that certain essential segments of the law should be further regulated in particular in that section that speaks of penalties for offenders, especially for illegal weapons possession. According to statistics in the Republic of Croatia, about 370,000 pieces of weapons have been registered, but unfortunately, this weapon has as much in illegal possession as it is a catastrophic piece of information, and therefore we have to hold the greatest attention there. Also, according to some indicators, the number of murders committed by illegal weapons is even higher than the murders that were obtained legally because weapons can be obtained at a very low price very easily. Unfortunately, all this data presented speaks enough about the seriousness of the problem and the deterioration of the security situation as a whole. When we add to that and... We must all ask ourselves what we must do to address these problems. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this bill of law, they tighten... in medical examinations of persons who legally possess weapons which is good, but Mr. Secretary of State and you and your Ministry of Defense and I think we have to say here right now, I have to say that the officers of police and these others haven't been in the exams for a long time, and they had to be. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, they too must be subject to the obligation to attend medical examinations that they too possess weapons and use them. Therefore, please do something in those ministries to do so. Furthermore, we believe that an even greater tightening of penalties for offenders must be proposed, so that such harsh penalties can help address the problems encountered in improving the country's security situation. It is the impression that the legislator introduces greater restrictions on those who legally possess weapons, and forgets that the biggest problem is, in fact, the illegal possession of weapons or the black market, and that is where the bill is scheduled, and in this area, we need to fix it in a second reading. We've all witnessed recent shootings in these nightclubs. Bullets grumble around surrounding buildings, and offenders are being punished for disrupting public order and peace or for 4,000 thousand kunas for illegal weapons possession. It can't be. We therefore propose to the legislator that, until the second reading of the Arms Act, the possibility of further tightening the penalties for illegal holding, carrying or supplying weapons, or abolishing fines for persons who are illegally owned and carrying arms, and that an exclusively prison sentence be imposed for them. Also, more severe should be sanctioned by legal persons involved in the affairs of weapons arrangements, but also by their... if he's working on a weapon that's illegally obtained in prison. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Only severe penalties can prevent the spread of such illegal activities and affect the repression of these undesirable phenomena. No honest citizen fears prison for illegal weapons possession. That's what we agree on. Therefore, I see no reason why they would not make such a law, or proposal for a law with severe penalties for these people. We also expect the Proposer to correct and nomo-technically edit the text of the law, i.e. equal professional terms and terminology within this text of yours, and therefore we call on the Proposer to seriously consider our proposals, to adopt our proposals on tightening penalties, and then, in the second reading, we could give support to the amendment and supplement of the Arms Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69112	Thank you. On behalf of the HSP Club, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69113	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Prime Minister. The first thing I have to say on behalf of the Croatian Party Club is that for a long time in the media in the public and from the presentation of the secretary of state, a false perception is visible that the restrictive Law on Arms will solve everything that the Croatian public has to say, and so is the secretary of state in its opening section. But unfortunately, that's not true, because over 95% of our record of the crimes committed by the use of weapons were committed by the persons who illegally owned that weapon. So there's the answer. It is not the key to introducing new restrictions on those 202 570 people in Croatia who have legal weapons neatly, whether they have a license to hold, or hold and carry arms, and this should be made loud and clear. For a long time, false perception is created, an incorrect perception that a restrictive arms law will reduce the number of crimes committed by the use of weapons, because the truth is quite different. So over 95% of the crimes committed in the last 10 years in Croatia have been committed by persons who owned this weapon illegally, and now I have to make a second major remark within that action, "Goodbye to weapons!" And now we know that this action has been going on for a long time. And now what happened in court proceedings, a new paradox. So that person who owned an illegal weapon and committed a crime instead of in such situations and in the future the fact that he illegally owned a weapon was a difficult circumstance she could not have been. Why? Because lawyers cleverly used this institution of abjects that kept extending and extending, and dear gentlemen, we're not going to solve anything. In fact, that way we're not going to solve anything because we're just putting additional restrictions on these 202 570 people who own a total of 371 378 pieces of firearms. It is important to tell the Croatian public that this law does not respond to criminal acts by using weapons because most of these weapons that have been committed are the owners of persons who have committed crimes, so it was illegal. And what is created by this law. A false perception is being created and new imposes are being imposed on persons who are meaning to behave in accordance with Croatian regulations, and so it is only evident that only the benefits of this will surely be linked to the state and there is also criminally in the opening part of the amount of funding on the basis of this marking and these other technical checks introduced in the bill. That's about $11 million a year for you to get, or 2 million for the state budget's revenue is going to be plus 2 million. So a total of 13 million. I haven't included these medical examinations yet. In fact, it will be difficult to justify the formulation that weapons and ammunition can be taken away from citizens when police are made likely that someone could commit or commit a crime or some kind of offence. In fact, many defenders have called us and they believe that it is also a deal with Croatian defenders to take away their weapons, and most of them are in this group 202,000 who possess neatly and legally. Furthermore, strengthening the criteria for holding and carrying arms on one side, and the historical tradition of the Croatian people holds and carries arms will result in an increase in the number of citizens who will hold arms without being registered and registered. Because if the project isn't designed, there's a opposite effect. The proposed solutions to the mandatory health review every fifth year of Croatian citizens who have the right to hold and carry arms are just another additional form of financial burden, because the reduction of this deadline from 10 to 5 years is not only absurd but also ridiculous because the disease does not occur every fifth year. The disease occurs beyond and independently of the prescribed deadlines, and such an unreasonable formulation can only be justified by the fact that certain lobbies within the medical circles have provided for themselves a permanent and secure source of income. Because in all laws there is always the possibility that someone who owns and holds a weapon can call for an extraordinary medical examination related to that part, and that there is also a situation where every person follows his medical records from birth to all facts would not happen and likely failures. I can't say that there are no such failures that someone's got permission either to hold or hold and carry without meeting these criteria. And I say, it is a sad fact that, in the light of the law, it states how many crimes committed on January 15, 92, say, by Croatian archers, Croatian hunters, all of these, which is less than 5% of all those who always have registered weapons. Therefore, I don't really know what the intention of the legislator is. I can agree on behalf of the club in this part that some things need to be brought into line with the legal gains of the European Union but we will not support this bill because it does not solve what is most important and this is a decisive fight against illegal weapons possession. This law doesn't make it happen, it creates a false idea, a false image. However, again, when this time limit is reintroduced that the fact that they commit a criminal offence by illegal possession, using such weapons will not be a difficult circumstance but can only be a violation and the only real answer to the legal possession of weapons is the introduction of drastic penalties for the holders of illegal weapons. This is the only real solution, not cheating or creating a false perception of how a restrictive act will solve it. Now, look, I can only read various situations that were in the media where there were always words about the crime being committed, that the perpetrator had a weapon, so illegally had a weapon, and let's say the case of one in Osijek that you knew well when he shot his ex-wife and her new husband and found the exact situation that he owned an illegal weapon, he had a gun called the Red Flag, a thing clear, and then we have a statement from the Deputy Prime Minister on that part that says, "We're working on a new law, not on changing and supplementing the existing one. It will certainly be restrictive in terms of obtaining a license for short arms." And that has nothing to do with each other. This is about the man who committed the crime, he's got an illegal weapon, not a man with a legal weapon. Therefore, let us not distort reality, let us not the truth, this law will not achieve anything, you will only introduce new burdens on 202 thousand 750 Croatian citizens, Croatian defenders, hunters and all others who comply with Croatian rules and who do not commit criminal acts but are introducing a new hack to raise funds in the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69114	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, Madam Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69115	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! At first, on behalf of the SDP Club, I would like to say that we will support this bill in our first reading. We consider it welcome on one side, a certain order will be introduced into this area. We support the fundamental marking of each piece of weaponry, technical examinations, the determination of the correctness, the regularity of weapons and, in the end, that is one harmonisation, as you State Secretarys have said and with a positive practice of the European Union. On behalf of the club, however, I would also like to express my doubts, or beliefs, as my colleagues before me said on behalf of other clubs that this bill, I think it is still clear that this will not solve the issue of holding, carrying, using illegal weapons, or illegally holding weapons. Between 90% and 95% of all the crimes in which weapons are used were committed precisely with illegal weapons, and I think it will, in fact, continue and after the adoption of this law, and hopefully certain improvements actually remain one big problem as well as in what way to solve it. It's about how much, in the light of this law, we're talking about how many pieces of weapons are registered. 371,000 378 pieces of firearms, estimates of illegal weapons, of course, are much higher. In one part of this law may even bring some way of reducing this legal weapon because it may be a question, perhaps one part of the citizens holding a legal weapon because of these charges that they all have to pay to decide that we eventually hope to return that weapon and not to hold it back illegally, so in that sense we support this law, we believe that this law should go to another reading and that it should be adopted. First of all, when it comes to illegal weapons, we consider that as far as the provisions of this law punishing individuals or legal persons are concerned, the craftsmen are too small. They're all going according to misdeeds, and as a colleague from the HNS said, they're calculating and conflicting cowboyically, so to speak in those nightclubs. After that, we had opportunities to read about paying the fines of two, three thousand or even less and nothing. I ask you to pay attention and try to adopt until the second reading in these parts of the law that speak of fines or criminal provisions. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the For example, nowhere in Article 95 provides that, in addition to these fines or prison sentences for up to 30 days, illegal carrying, possession and use of weapons, it is said here that the safeguarding measure of confiscation and, say, we propose on behalf of the club that it stands and that it can no longer seek and obtain a license for the legal holding of weapons. In Article 97, which speaks of tradesman infringements or in Article 98, which speaks of violations of legal persons, we argue that in the last sentence of the offences referred to in paragraph 1 of this article, with a fine not to be imposed but to impose a safeguard measure prohibiting the operation of traffic, repairing and processing of weapons or the conduct of civil firearms, because, for example, in Article 98, a legal person is determined to obtain and hold arms or ammunition whose holding or supply of this law is prohibited will pay a fine of 20 to 100 thousand kuna, I suppose without a problem, because it is likely to be close to that 20,000 and someone remembers, says he will not give a safeguard measure of prohibition. Therefore, we are in favour of tightening the criminal provisions. Now allow a few sentences related to concrete also more concrete articles. First, Article 1 of the basic provisions. And I would ask Mr. Secretary of State to explain to us the provision referred to in paragraph 3 which states that the provisions of this law do not apply to the supply, handling, collection, processing, transport of weapons, examination of markings and so on for the purposes of armed forces, police, as well as other state bodies and legal persons of the Republic of Croatia specified by a special regulation. Does this apply, does this mean that these provisions of the law do not apply to persons who work in the armed forces, in the police and so on. What about, what about the part where they're not in the service? What about them when they leave, when they, say, retire and beg for clarification about it. We are particularly warning as a club on Article 10 and on several points in this article. And we believe that this article should be very clear, that is, in the part where the law speaks of rules to be adopted, these rules should be explicitly clear. First of all, point 1 has a legitimate reason for the supply of weapons. That justifiable reason can be widely interpreted by me and by us at the club. Point 5. That there are no other circumstances that indicate that weapons could be misused and, in particular, excessive alcohol consumption, drug consumption or other stunning means, disturbed family relations, disciplinary violations of hunting rules or sports shooting, etc. In particular, here I warn of this part of the disturbed family relationship because Article 14 still states that a police officer would give his opinion in some ways. We believe that this point should also succumb to the determination through the rulebook. We suggest that it be in the part where part of the regulation is proposed by the Minister of Health and Social Care. So, then, let's talk about whether or not there are disturbed family relations somewhere, and leave out those points that talk about family violence before that to collect data through a social care center. Because otherwise we say this will remain definitely a discretionary assessment of police officers. When we talk about the objection of conscience, I only remind myself on behalf of the Club that in 1998, the Constitutional Court made one decision that applied to the period within which conscience can be given when it comes to military service and then the Constitutional Court ruled that the objection could be given at any time, at a time when, at a time when military service is served. Until then, there was a commitment within 3 months. An analogy can be said that the objection to conscience can also be stopped at some point. They would therefore pray that this part of the objection to conscience may also be taken into account in some way. And finally related to this surrender or call for the handover of illegal weapons. We, on behalf of the Club here, suggest that maybe it is envisaged, does not mean that it must be in this law, but we call on the Ministry of Government to try one good way to show the citizens through one marketing approach, through one action, I will remind that it was the action "Goodbye to the weapons" with any shortcomings that have proved somewhere I think it's a lot in some way to say so animated to the public and to warn the public about the problem that exists. Let it be called something different, but let it be possible for citizens to report themselves to have illegal weapons that they want to hand it over, so that the police come for it so that in that sense we can propagate, propagate, or that we all promote such an action together, and if it should take longer. We also warn on behalf of the Club on illogicality for us, and I think the Committee on Law also has objections to this, which is that these articles relating to the adoption of regulations by ministers, primarily the Minister of the Interior or the Minister of Health. I'm asking that he writes health care and welfare here because it's his ministry that he's going to pass certain regulations. I warn that one part of these regulations applies to a period of 6 months and one part of the Regulation refers to a period of one year from the date of application of this law. I'm just warning that this could possibly lead to confusion and delusion, so maybe it's unnecessary to waste time with citizens who, I don't know, after the minister delivers, I don't know, within six months, a part of the rule that talks about content, appearances, prices of authorisation for holding, carrying guns, gun regulation, how to keep records, and so on. After these six months, the citizen comes or reports that under this new law his weapon, and then he is told "but you know he can't yet because you can't hit the stamp at the same time because the rulebook will be passed, there's still a year." Please, here he is on behalf of the Club, asking you to comply with these provisions of the law. We don't think and we don't see any reason for all the rules not to be in the same, mandatory within the same time limit to be passed. I repeat, in the end, on behalf of the SDP Club, we will support the adoption of this law but once again we express our doubts that this law does not essentially address the issue of holding, carrying, using weapons that citizens possess illegally. And that in that part, the police, or not only the police, but it seems to me that the whole government should find a way to and how most effectively solve this very illegal weapon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69116	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSLS Club, Mr. Representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69117	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I thought my colleague Jarnjak was ahead of me, and that's how these applications were made. You see, I must admit that I have long doubted that as a member of the Croatian Social Liberal Party talking about this topic, because I am convinced that the pacifist in my dream is a society without weapons. But I am also aware that this dream is actually a pure illusion and that everything and that we will cannot act to ignore our reality, which is even more than cruel. And as it always always does in life no accident comes alone that the amount of weapons that appeared in our society after the Homeland War is actually something that has become a real problem. And for about 15 years now, we've been facing how to solve this problem in the most effective way possible. What always in such situations is tragic is that there are major accidents, tragedies, and then we react. Ever since it turned out that even in private, police don't store weapons the way the regulations say so, so somewhere in 2001 or 2002 in Osijek, the weapons warehouse blew up, then that one again. I was mayor, a colleague of Shima Luchin was Minister of the Interior. But as you well know, local self-government has no authority over the activities of the Ministry of the Interior, that is, the police administration of the city of Osijek and so on. And it's a good thing that's true. 'Cause God forbid these guys who wear pacifists like me could really play and then create even bigger problems. It's so good for these sheriffs to choose the ministry and then decide on these methods of police, and therefore take some responsibility. What seems to me to be something that is a little bit so schizophrenic in our society, that we have a growing number of people serving a civil military deadline, is an objection to conscience, and that on the same side, in fact, there is no one at all, then you expect that society will actually become a pitomies and that societies will somehow prove to be peaceful and that the story we loved in the former Yugoslavia tells us that we do not belong to that warrior mentality and that some successes or events in life are not solved by song and shooting. Now that after these 15 years it's come to pass that we're not as beautiful and wise and as tolerant as we'd like to think of ourselves. And it is true that the legislator cannot be dealt with only by law. Yes, there is indeed a need he says and let a wider social action to express myself this way with a rather unpopular term. 'Cause again, I'm afraid there's really no such thing as a network, so that someone who's voiced their objection to their conscience and that for a while, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, at the very least. Either I don't know that it's making some incident at Pasha, or I don't know how all these very powerful places that unfortunately become part of our reality exist and where what happens then is the most banal, the most trivial conflicts are solved. It used to be solved by fists, and today, unfortunately, it's handled with weapons. And then in that, and then certainly we as a club will uphold the law. But what some colleagues and colleagues said before me, it seems to me that things would still focus on that segment that obviously is more dominant, and this is the possession of this illegal weapon. Obviously, this is legal to record, that it is possible to catalogue, that it is possible to establish one decent civil control that will not enter into the authorised, or legally guaranteed privacy of any person. But apparently, there remains a problem with this illegal weapon, or this weapon, which, for various reasons, is difficult or in no way going back to where it belongs, which is either to destroy or to go where it belongs. Like when we talk about the drug problem, so do we when we talk about the problem of weapons. Obviously, we do have, we're dealing with ice santoma, we see only the tip of the iceberg, but what's actually, what's underneath we don't find the right way to get rid of. Having a weapon is what I say in every way you need to control it. I'm even inclined to suspend this liberalism of mine and to really do anything that poses a real threat, a danger to society, to the community, to their individuals that must really be severely punished. And especially these penalties that are almost not only symbolic but also act stimulating that they actually led to this that you don't have days when you don't read that something happened. And then again, you have that case, I don't know Petrine, or the Osijek case of that innocent boy who really got hurt just because he was driving around on his bike. And yet the most tragic thing was that this suicide was recorded as a man with health problems, which in no way actually solved that problem that his weapon when it was evident that he possessed it properly. And it seems to me that this good, or this bill of law that I'm saying is done in accordance with the European Community's demands, but not only of the European Communities, but in fact of this reality, to be a good incentive and then, to deal with this, it seems to me to be a more serious phenomenon, and that is this huge amount of weapon that, which car is in circulation. And normally every weapon, they say in every good novel if, or in any good movie, if a rifle or a revolver shows up at the beginning that he must finally fire, then we need to know all these guns, guns that, the guns that exist in those private arsenals, they will eventually perform that function, which is to shoot and kill. Here, I'm saying nothing, I'm aware that my dream of a society without weapons won't come true. But what I would really like to appeal in the name of the club is that we do not have the palitative actions of the type "Good-bye weapons" and that those penalties are not at the symbolic level, but that it is really necessary for the state not only to act preventively but it has a lot of right to protect the other members of the community that can and that Croatia should be what our obligation should be, too, and that Croatia is defined as one sure society where you can really walk freely, you can go outside and you know that nothing will happen to you, and I say that if you read our black chronicle then it is still for the shade, not for the shade but it is really too dark and it really shows that we are really in the right sense of words become stakeholders and say usually to Western or Western European or American society is that is where this liberalisation is with weapons, and especially in our context of this war and after these weapons are used uncontrol, and it creates really unnecessary problems in society, and there are not really, and there are not really the penalties, and there are no more, and there are no more, and there are the penalties, and there are no more, and there are no more sanctions, and there are no more sanctions, and there are no more sanctions, and there are not really, and there are no more sanctions, and there really, and there are no more. They don't hesitate to spend it, but we'll vote for this bill. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69118	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69119	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. The Croatian Democratic Community will support this Law and thinks it is welcome to the Law and I think there are many, many good things in this law, good solutions that I welcome and that I must say that they are well complex. We must go from the very beginning and explain some things to ourselves that the Arms Act was passed in '92. And by then, the law on law-taking from the former state had the Law on the Arms of the former state until '92. A year. '92. We decided that the time had come for us to make our own Law which would be an appropriate time and space in which both the state of Croatia and the country in which we were then found and we had to write such a law. This Law has been changed eight times and it is good, very good that the new Law is now written. It is a new time, these are new conditions and should be written accordingly and these terms written by the new Law. The aim of the Law of '92. The one we set up was how to get as many lines around maintenance, about holding guns, and especially about the production of weapons that have fewer problems today, and there, almost then, a little, a little bit, in every other place, was produced by weapons, so if you want a 120 millimeter grenade, a mortar, so it was normal to find a man at home at 120 millimetres, and we're at one in '92. The years we found, near here, near Zagreb, in the garage, two of us will be with the little ones. Why am I saying that? So let's figure out how long it's been since then, 14 years, and how much progress has been made when we criticise the existing state with which I agree that it needs to be criticised, that it needs to be improved anyway. I'll just say one action we did in '93. Introduced in the MUP, it's a "peace and Good" action, and I agree with Mrs. Sobol, which means constantly maintaining one action and really through the constant warning, inviting people to holiday this great Catholic Christmas, New Year's Eve not to use firearms. Well, I must say, on the eve of this New Year's Eve, it was nice to watch fireworks with very, very rare use of firearms. '92. Years, '91. The year, '93. In those years, the fireworks were gone, but they were bursting from hoodies to anti-aircraft cannons. Yeah, that was it. January 15, '92. The years when Croatia was recognized, I don't know if anyone had the opportunity to watch that fireworks that was firearms, it was terrible, it was a terrible understanding of people's enthusiasm and joy for what happened, but also for the dangers of the rest of the citizens, and also for those who shot and when we look at it, we see how much progress has been made in the consciousness of man, and the fundamental thing is, when we talk about the Law of Arms Consciousness of Man. Clearly, someone needs to say it over and over again, with someone more severe punishment, but in any case a major advance has been made in Croatia, and even in numbers and statistics, we have data here since '98. There were 293 murders and attempted murder, but from that with the firearm 112. In 2005, there were 228 murders and attempted murder, of which 63 were firearms, 50% less. '98-2005. For seven years, it's a major breakthrough, but every life is worth making amends and writing a new law to save that life. I think it's also good that this law goes, especially when it goes in two readings and it's good that you can make remarks on it. I especially warn that the remarks that came from the Croatian Hunting Union, the shooting associations and clubs should be examined and that these are exactly the places where people will meet the need to deal with, hold and use weapons, to be places. And in all that, when we talk about how people educate to try, then direct them right into hunting societies, shooting societies, sports shooting clubs. There's a possibility that you can shoot unlimitedly but under professional surveillance at a secure location and safely with the right weapon. I must say, this law introduces a valuable part of praise, which is an examination of the technical regularity of weapons and the acquisition of stamps. Everything has a lifeline, including a weapon. Everything. After all, the military is writing down billions of dollars in the world, billions and billions of dollars in a year of weapons that have run out of time, ammunition, weapons, equipment. That's what it takes to have one of those controls. Shortening the importance of medical examination from ten to five, please make a suggestion to see. You should see. It's not a guarantee of full success either, but there's been some pressure to reduce the number of registered weapons, let alone the number of unregistered weapons. Every weapon is a latent threat, and registered and unregistered, illegal and legal weapon. Guns are always dangerous. The only advantage is that what's legally easier is to find him and you know who he's with and the perpetrators are easier to find. But when it comes to detecting activity, then I must tell you that when it comes to attempted murder and murder between 87% and 93%, the perpetrators were found and brought to justice. Mandatory exams for those who hold, have a license to hold and those who have permission to carry arms. So far, it's only for those who have the right to carry guns. It's the same difference. It doesn't matter what he has a right to wear in a public place. He's got to pass the exam and he's got him at home, he's even more dangerous than just keeping him at home. The good law foresees a permanent possibility of voluntary handing over weapons, and especially that, no more carrying guns to a police station or anywhere than calling on a police officer to come home. Why? Because some people found illegal weapons, he came to court and his lawyer was able to prove that he was going to take the weapons to the police station that day and the court released him. Now he won't be able to tell if he didn't call the police then he can't say he did anything. So, this is important for the process to be conducted and I agree that especially for illegal weapons, weapons held at home especially not under surveillance, not professional supervision that it is extremely dangerous and that it should simply be sought out how repressive measures but also by measures to encourage people to feel the need to get rid of these weapons. We have one thing to say here when it comes to this illegal weapon that in 90 and 91 in Croatia was a lot of households that sold and a part of the property to obtain weapons, which were ready to defend their country. It is a fact, but it does not justify them today that these weapons hold unregistered especially weapons that cannot be registered, automatic weapons because such weapons are always a danger not to those who have them but to those who can come to him to commit serious crimes and great evil. And so it's just a recommendation that these people just put it back. I could tell you a lot more about that weapon, about that law. I won't say anything more than HDZ will support that law in the first reading. We suggest that we all engage actively to improve it in another reading. As many weapons as we have in 91st and during the Homeland War, it took so long to get him back, put him under surveillance, and we don't need to keep him at home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69120	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mrs. Vesna Skarre-Ozbolt's turn, which she doesn't have. Then, Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, who also does not have one. They're losing the right to discuss this point. Then it's Mrs. Gordana Sobol. Here you go. Is it? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. Thank you. Then, Mr. Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69121	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State! Since this law goes into first reading and this law shows the tendency and intention of the Croatian government and the MUP to contribute even more to the safety of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia to control weapons that are held legally but also aims to achieve the control of illegal weapons which unfortunately in the Republic of Croatia has too much. We know that such a weapon actually seems to be the most criminal act, and it certainly is necessary to do everything possible to move such a weapon, an illegal weapon, to a maximum extent, and to prevent it from being used for crimes. I believe it's a good idea to introduce this type of weapon from A to C which classifies weapons and ammunition that are forbidden to carry and hold and other weapons are allowed. In this category of weapons, the change is that gas weapons are introduced and reported. We know that gas weapons can also be dangerous, so I think it's good to register gas weapons. The conditions for the supply of weapons have also been tightened, and this in particular applies to those registered as family abusers. I think that's good, and I think that's how those tragedies that we're all witnessing are gonna be avoided, and I think that's also the contribution to having less tragedy in families. With weapons, of course, we all know we have to be careful. That's why it's good to introduce exams for those who have a license to hold arms. Caution can only be exercised by one who knows how to deal with weapons properly, and it is certain that some people who have a license to hold do not know how to use it or how to treat it should not be used. It's good, I'm sure it's good in this law to introduce a technical examination for weapons. It may require certain costs, but on the other hand, it certainly allows all those holding weapons to have the right weapons and not to happen, not to happen, due to technically incorrect weapons. I also welcome the introduction of a record of shots fired from each weapon, which actually requires the creation of a database that will certainly contribute to the rapid detection of the perpetrators of those crimes in which the firearms were used. As for the reduction of the time limit for medical examination from 10 to 5 years, it can lead to greater control of the ability of all persons who possess weapons but of course should be assessed and the effect that will be caused in humans means the cost that people will have with a more frequent, more frequent medical examination. What I think is the same here as the president, our representative of the HDZ Club Mr. Jarnjak has also expressed his thoughts on the suggestions that we should include the proposals of the Hunting Union for, on some issues among other issues, the question of how to treat people who have a license for hunting weapons? So after the exam, they're not active hunters. They have a license to hold and use hunting weapons, but of course there's no control, I don't think there's enough control since they're not members of hunting associations and hunting alliances, and they don't use weapons in that way. So maybe it would be good to introduce the same as holding a hunting weapon as one, one model. Or that everyone has to, everyone who gets a hunting weapon must be members of a hunting organization so that I believe it would achieve greater control of the hunting weapon. I also welcome this further possibility of legalising and reporting and returning, the possibility of returning illegal weapons, especially those weapons that are classified by this categorization as weapons that cannot be held or authorised. I think it's clear to everyone that such a weapon, the possession of such a weapon, allows some people who have such a weapon to be in need, perhaps even to sell those weapons financially, and then, later, some crimes are committed, and I think it's even more important that the return of weapons of illegal weapons is reduced by the possibility of tragic cases due to reckless handling and particularly tragic cases of child injury. We're witnessing that these tragedies are happening and that the weapon that's being held illegal if those weapons get their hands on the kids, then there's these tragedies that no one would ever wish for. It is good that this law to go in the first reading, I think, and this debate shows that there are different proposals than the one that should increase the penalties for the holding and possession of illegal weapons, so here are these remarks made by the hunting alliances and the shooting alliances, the shooting and hunting associations, and I think that by the final adoption of this law in the second reading we will have a much better, better review and I think that this law will actually bring the Republic of Croatia more security of all citizens when it is of course in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69122	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Marijan Mlinarić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69123	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. I am pleased that most of the secretary of state and others who have spoken so far speak positively about this law and its intensities. It is made in the best of intentions and has a whole series of newspapers that improve the situation so far. BUT I am sorry that there are fellow MPs who say that no, he contributes nothing, that he is merely a burden and burden to those who legally possess weapons without any improvement in the situation of illegal holding and carrying arms. We need to know that there are people, pacifists who hate guns, and by their conscience they even refuse to join the army and so on, who do not bear weapons. There are people who like guns and even like to deal with them. They're entering police, military services, hunters and so forth. There are gun lovers who are willing to give the entire fortune to collect valuable weapons and we want this law to introduce order amongst these people who want to deal with weapons, who love weapons. But that third group of people, which is a bunch of people who belong to a criminal mile, are willing to use that weapon to kill them. That third group of people, unfortunately, is not good at shooting with a registered weapon, because it's easy to trace. And unfortunately, neither the most rigorous laws in many countries since the cut off of the hand nor the death penalty have eradicated crime, nor the means to which crime is served. It means including weapons. Of course I agree with those who have just said that discovery, actions to detect illegal weapons, and the tightening of penalties for illegal weapons carriers can lead to some better results. However, this law right now applies to that group of citizens, which my predecessors have said well, we are the country that came out of the war, which, where people were willing to give and part of the family property to buy certain weapons, to defend their country, in which regardless of all the actions so far and "Goodbye to weapons." and "Peace and good."", to whom it has been collected I must say a huge amount of weapons, a huge amount of weapons still has too many backward weapons from the war that do not serve at this time anything other than the danger in the family, which is a danger that some or children or those who are not ready and who do not know how to handle the weapon use that weapon and make themselves or family unhappy. That the state wants to introduce order in holding and carrying weapons speak and a large number of amendments and additions to the Arms Act that was passed we said in 2000, '92, amended in '93, '94, '95, '97, '99, 2001 and 2002. After so many amendments, it is certainly to welcome the adoption of a new whole law that should have answered a whole series of these problems that I said in the introduction, and also that should have responded to our international obligations and conventions that we have signed from the Europeans to the United Nations Conventions that fight against transnational organised crime, against the smuggling of firearms, its parts and ammunition. And this is exactly the law we've arranged according to those directives and conventions and that law. So that's how we divided the weapons like said into four groups. It was only allowed and forbidden before, in so far, and by respecting this very convention and directive, we have four groups of weapons. So forbidden, then the weapon for which prior approval is required. A third group shall be allowed the weapons to be declared to the competent authority. And the fourth group of permitted weapons is that you do not need the approval of a competent body, such as an air rifle and. ... Yeah, the hoodies special. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mandatory gas weapons have been introduced. Because we also know that firearms are being reproduced, because we know that they can also cause injuries and death. I'd like to take a special look at this strict, condition for the supply of weapons where it's been introduced unless so far as it has been, if anyone's been convicted, etc. needed for some violent, some crime, etc. The law on the protection of domestic violence is now important. We are witnessing relatively great domestic violence. But fortunately, fortunately, here's what statistics have proven to be firearms in the last 5 or 10 years, yet 50% has been reduced as the cause of the murder of one of the family members. This does not mean, however, that the rules adopted by the Minister of Health and the Minister of the Interior need not specify the exact conditions under which one can receive medical confirmation that he is capable of carrying weapons. And that a police officer must collect, which will make the final decision on this, collect all the data, especially from the social service. Because domestic bullyes usually register socially first, first they report to the police when first, third time, fifth time women and children are beaten, etc. It's always called the police, so people like that are already on police records. And beyond that, social services are alarmed and there are records of such people. It is also important to shorten the period of validity of the doctor's authorisation from 10 to 5 years. Because unfortunately, both alcoholics and drug addicts and alcohol addicts can become more than five years from now. So a man who was healthy when he got his license in five years could significantly change his relationship to addictions. And also change your behavior. Well, obviously beyond that, he won't be able to get permission, a doctor's certificate that he can get a license to hold and carry a weapon. Then it is also important to examine and mark this. Even so, it has been a law so far, but the problem is to determine this condition stems from the fact that there are no organisations in the Republic of Croatia, institutions that would be authorised to try and mark firearms. This is now given to an institution that is authorized to do so, and we believe that this very marking and testing of weapons is being investigated by their technical correctness because this is the first reason to examine technical correctness, because with a bad weapon, or an invalid weapon, it can be caused more frequently by an accident, and the second is to run a bullet tracking register. Therefore, if any crime is committed with that weapon, it can be found and thus identified and easier to detect the crime. Here is a whole series of these improvements I believe that this Law is good, that, with these comments, a much better effect can be achieved through the next reading and that is why I will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69124	... It's time to sign up at 16 and 53. [[Specially enabled.]] We have one replica, Mrs. Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69125	Thank you. Well, actually, here's the thing, I answered the line of my colleague, Mlinarić, because I'd like to do it that way and I'd like to make it clear again. By agreeing with you in everything this Law makes an improvement, I said on behalf of the club that as such we understand it and he will, and yet it seems to me today we all agreed to introduce one, I will not say complete, but additional order to say so in this record, but primarily when it comes to legal weapons. So, with people who actually are rightly related to that weapon. When it comes to domestic violence, unfortunately like any other violence, therefore supporting what is being brought here, therefore those provisions, but we must be aware that the crimes involved in cases of domestic violence are also used again when weapons are used in most cases by illegal weapons. In fact, it's not exactly my problem, but our biggest problem, and that part, so the issue of holding, using, carrying, using illegal weapons, and in domestic violence unfortunately, this doesn't solve it. When we talk about who estimates whether they've been disturbed by other family relations with the person who requested permission to carry a weapon, I'm definitely trying to get rid of this part of Article 14 that says a police officer is going to do so. No, let the regulations determine that the commission which decides whether to obtain a gun permit will request from the competent police administration and from the competent social care centre a report on whether there was something in some period that indicates disturbed family relations, and then we will definitely avoid any possible manipulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69126	Thank you. Mr. Mlinaric's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69127	So we agree, I also said that the Minister of Health and Social Welfare and the Minister of the Interior will have to give very detailed rules on how to determine and how adequate will be collected, usually asking for permission to carry and hold weapons in the police department where we belong by the place of residence, and the police already in their files exist, have information on whether the police are called because of disturbed relations in the family, and also as another instance is a social institution that usually reacts after that when these disturbed relationships in the family are escalating so that it won't be a problem. The problem is certainly illegal weapons, it is certainly a problem, but it is, carrying illegal weapons is equal to criminal activity. Just like we're fighting crime, we're fighting illegals. It's secret and it's just, I say to frequent interventions and also by trying to legalize as many weapons as possible in this way as planned. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69128	Thank you. More Mrs. Alenka Kossha Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69129	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. So probably my debate will go in the same direction that my predecessors had discussed, with perhaps some additions that refer to better imagery in domestic violence. In the Republic of Croatia, 371,000 pieces of firearms were registered with 202,000 people. How many unregistered or illegal weapons there are can only be guessed. In view of this fact and the increasingly frequent occurrence of armed attacks, of which a significant number is an integral part of family violence, and of which a significant number as a consequence has been killed or seriously injured victims of the adoption of such a law, in which certain measures should certainly be applied, it was necessary. The Law on Weapons in the Republic of Croatia already exists and has been amended several times to achieve greater control over illegal weapons in the possession of citizens in such a way that almost every year it has been possible to register weapons without establishing origins, so-called. legalization allowed you to hand over forbidden firearms. Given the fact that there was a war conflict in these areas that always brings with it and a great fluctuation of weapons, such a policy could be justified. However, I feel that it can no longer be tolerated. Legalizing existing illegal weapons and thus not examining their origins is irresponsible and immoral. In the present circumstances, such a feeling could be equated with the forgiveness of crimes that may have been committed with such a new weapon. However, criminals are thus facilitated by the process of solving incriminating weapons. Wherever they throw such a weapon, there is always the possibility of finding it after a certain time, it is under investigation that it has been used in a crime scene always, unless it is handed over to the police themselves because it does not question such origin, terribly ironic. I say such a thing could be justified while there was reasonable doubt that the vast majority of unregistered weapons came from war and were not used for illegal purposes. Today, on the other hand, we need to reject such doubts and face reality. In Croatia, illegal weapons, although not only illegally used today, are mostly used for illegal purposes, and this should be put to an end once. The basic characteristics of this Law that should be immediately highlighted, commended and firmly stood behind them are that citizens against whom a misdemeanor for domestic violence is being conducted or who are already convicted will not be able to obtain permission to own weapons. Such a permit will neither be granted to those who serve a military term or men who have objected to conscience or to citizens for whom a procedure for killing and torturing lives has been initiated. Thus, the new Arms Act clearly states that the obstacle to obtaining a permit is any crime that contains elements of violence within it. So there is a political will to tighten criteria to reduce the number of accidents, especially those related to domestic violence. This should prevent tragedies like those that occurred three years ago in Osijek when a stray bullet in broad daylight killed a boy. The worst part is maybe that boy was a random passerby and he and his family in the worst way saw how dangerous the weapon was in the hands of some hothead. The bill also regulates that authorisation to hold arms will not be possible for those who enjoy alcohol more often and overtime, consume intoxicating drugs and other stunning means, as well as for citizens who have disturbed family relations. Everyone who gets permission will have to check their health skills every five years and not every ten years. What is recommended is a way of identifying disturbed family relationships. So, no, the law's fine, we'll just see how it's going to be implemented in practice. In fact, we are all aware that domestic violence has much more than it is reported and unfortunately there are our hands tied. However, there are a huge number of reports of domestic violence that have simply not been processed, at least not until their tragic end. The most common line that goes through statements and interviews with abused women certainly if they were so lucky that the survivors always said that they couldn't do anything until they did something concrete. So I'd like to remind you of a specific triple homicide in Petrinja. The cruel killings of three women once again showed the non-application of preventive legal measures by police and the issuing of a licence for carrying and tolerating the possession of weapons, mentally ill persons and reported domestic abusers necessarily led to tragedies and horrors that rocked Croatian society. The black chronicles of our newspapers and data from NGOs that help victims of domestic violence say that unfortunately this is not a lonely case. There is still no systematic response from the police in these cases, although it has been going on for years. Moreover, Mr Mehun's MP's statement at the time that police have no right to interfere in cases of domestic violence until it escalates is unacceptable. And it is not only a lack of understanding of the problem of violence in Croatian society but it can be seen as an open invitation to violence and murderers to move on with their crimes. However, domestic violence is in no way and cannot be a private matter but only a matter of public interest because it is a violation of human rights and police have an obligation to protect working groups and apply measures against potential offenders and murderers. In this place, we must also warn of those who are ill defenders of PTSD, many of whom possess weapons legally or not. It doesn't matter right now. The only thing that matters is that the executive power is going to implement this law so that no more psychically ill person will own a weapon. I also believe that it is important to prosecute or prosecute doctors who would dare to issue forged medical documentation to gun owners. The maximum penalty of 5 thousand kuna or 30 days in prison does not seem nearly enough to me since the doctor’s intentional or unintended error is generally possible only after the tragedy occurs and since five years between the examinations are still quite a long period of time that the doctor can ultimately use in his defense. This law should show that we will implement a zero tolerance policy against armed violence and in articles that prescribe criminal provisions this can be very easily shown. It is also a commendable initiative to mark each piece of weapons with a stamp on it. This will create a unique weapons register throughout Croatia. In addition, the first bullet from the legal weapon will be fired in the presence of the police and will later be able to learn from the weapons from which a criminal offence was committed, based on it. However, it should be remembered, however, that criminals' licenses and armed papers are not too necessary. They get everything they need and how much they need including weapons that ordinary citizens can't own automatic weapons, weapons silencers, bombs, rocket launchers, explosives and the like. The fact is, in this way, the state cannot and will not prevent criminals from robbing and killing and killing except, of course, it may reduce the percentage of the murders by legal weapons, but I guess our goal is to reduce the killings, let alone any weapon. It's also a fact that nine out of ten murder cases were committed with illegal weapons and that the percentage of illegal weapons abuse was less than 3%. So more than 97% of the weapons in the legal property are carefully guarded and handled with care. It should also be said that it is wrong to represent the view that it absolutely prohibits the possession of weapons for a similar reason which is mentioned above because it goes against human rights to self-defense and because of the negative experiences of those countries that have completely banned the possession of weapons to their citizens. Criminals won't be a problem again, but they'll certainly be less of a problem, if anything psychologically robs someone, knowing that almost certainly he doesn't have any weapons to defend himself. One of the few countries in the world that has completely banned the possession of weapons to its citizens is the UK. Is that why crime caused something to shrink in the UK? Did they stop robbing and killing with firearms? No, they're not. However, all forms of crime have increased enormously because criminals feel safer when they know that honest citizens are disarmed and they are armed. What most needs to be done is the education of citizens on weapons, on their safekeeping, on their safe use and, above all, on the consequences of its unprofessional, irresponsible use and preparation. A new investigation into weapons that reveal that parents are wrong when they think children don't know where they keep firearms. In this study conducted on a 201-parent sample, 39% of children knew the exact location at which parents held firearms and 22% used firearms. In fact, children are naturally very curious and often find things in the house that their parents keep hidden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69130	Thank you very much. We have one replica of Mr. Representative Marijan Mlinarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69131	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Chichin-Shain disagrees with the article of this law, which approves of the permanent surrender of illegal weapons, means no punishment. I think we only have two options. Either punish and seek illegal weapons in every house or consent to citizens who, for any reason at the time of the war, or thus provide weapons and now they no longer need to hand it over without punishment. That's, we've been thinking a long time about this proposal and we thought, we thought that it was better, that it was a better option to hand over the weapons without punishment and without question about the origin of that weapon because it stimulates all those good citizens who, whose weapons are not needed and in this way we've collected a lot of weapons with these actions and we think it should be permanent. A criminal won't hand him over to that, because he needs him for other purposes. But to those who don't need guns if they're not questioned, if they're not punished for voluntary surrender, then we'll have success. If we punish them, they'll keep him in the house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69132	Thank you. Mrs. Chichin-Shain's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69133	My colleague, I think of course the debate on this is borderline. The time immediately after the war, this approach was, in fact, justified. So at two, three times, weapons were collected, you collected weapons of impunity. We must at some point say holding an illegal weapon is not right. So we have to go somewhere and at some point we're gonna have to draw a line and say holding an unregistered weapon is illegal. Therefore, it should not be punished because it will then become permanent. I think in 20 years we'll discuss the same thing whether to let it go or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69134	Thank you. State Secretary Mr. Ivica Buconjic. It's final. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69135	Thank you very much. I must say that I have been pleased to follow the debate because, indeed, from the debate of all MPs, we have been given the impression that we are all unique about the fact that this issue should be tried with the law to solve as much quality as possible and simply try and this legislative way to reduce the number of criminal acts particularly of tragic crimes as was a recent murder in Nazor, as was the recent murder in Petrinja, in Glina. And perhaps there is one difference between parliamentary deputies over how this goal is achieved? Do more drastic sanctions or penalties, do they prevent, do they perhaps increase the responsibility of the police? But I think that the debate on this law will take place both in this first reading and in the second reading, but there will be a debate between the two readings to carry out a broader social debate on how to find the best and most effective ways to fight the use of weapons that later commits terrible crimes. I think that here are the two questions and the key, the crucial and the answer to them will surely lead if we find a good quality answer to a reduction in the number of crimes. It's primarily a question of how to find and confiscate illegal weapons? And the second question is, how do you simply prevent violent or violent persons from holding and possessing weapons? As far as this illegal weapon is concerned, we think it might be a good idea to try this very solution to give them the opportunity to return the weapon without any time limit and without punishment. We're going to see if he's going to give these results, but we think he might want to name a part of the individuals who aren't violent, who aren't prone to weapons abuse, but maybe they didn't bring him back to this particular one, this one possibility of getting him back without sanctioning that he might return it. And as for this other question, and this is what Mrs Sobol has asked, and what have some other MPs asked the question of holding and carrying weapons from persons who are either violently or prone to alcohol, drugs or other associational behaviors as to how this problem is solved? I have to say that police practice is clear and visible that it's not that much of a problem with checking these people out, when they're giving the license the first time. Most often there is a problem with people who first got a license to carry, holding weapons, but later during the time they held that weapon, certain associative behaviours appeared with them, and there are a lot of problems with detecting and finding these people. When we first check the person who applied for permission to keep and carry weapons here in the law is numbered not to be convicted, it must not be meant that the person registered cannot get the weapon. However, very often in practice, a person who receives weapons develops certain associative behaviours, certain forms of disease, addictions that lead to weapons abuse, and later serious crimes. What may have missed the same MPs here, which is also very important for us to point out that Article 12, paragraph 6, also introduces the doctor’s responsibility to inform the Ministry of the Interior if a person authorised to hold and carry arms has certain health changes affecting his similarity to holding and carrying. We had the case of that triple murder in Clay that this man who committed that terrible crime a few months before that crime had received a neat medical certificate from a doctor even in a psychiatric facility that he was capable of carrying and holding weapons. We believe that this is exactly the kind of solution that we will also make doctors responsible for simply reporting to the MAP any change in health status among people who have a license to hold and carry weapons, yet gradually begin to reduce the number of people who are potential perpetrators of the most severe crimes with the most tragic consequences. In any case, thank you to everyone who participated in the debate and simply here, if I may ask you and encourage you to report to me personally or through various forms of round tables, through public debate, through some individual steps, it may still point to the possibility that you consider that you could fix this law in these two segments and I can see that we agreed on these other things mostly. And I think that through this time between two readings and another reading, we will probably still be able to fix this law, find better ways and methods to ensure better security of citizens who want to live peacefully and safely than those who want to use weapons in one illegal way to commit the most serious crimes that unfortunately have been done in Croatia lately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69136	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69137	The proposal of the Arms Act, first reading. I'm voting on the next conclusion. The proposal of the Arms Act is hereby adopted. All objections and proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 83 votes for, 1 abstention, 5 against was accepted, the conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69138	We're going to 18. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and the European Police Office, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 513. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. On the agenda, we've identified the urgency of the procedure. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with the article... The emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? Yeah. President of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69139	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security at the 72nd session held on 26 June 2006 discussed the proposal for the law in question. The members of the Committee are familiar with the reasons and interests proposed to adopt the law in question by emergency procedure. The proposer also points out that this agreement regulates the issue of international organised crime, terrorism, trafficking in human beings, and smuggling of illegal immigrants, illicit drug trafficking and other serious forms of international crime. The Committee supported the position of representatives of the Government and proposed to the Parliament the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of an operational and strategic co-operation agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Police Office in the text as proposed by the legislator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69140	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. No one answered for the hearing. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69141	Final proposal of the Act confirming the Agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and the European Police Office. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 84 for 2 abstentions. The proposed draft law has been adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69142	And we're going to 19. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on the Prohibition of Use in the War of Suffocious, Toxic or Similar Gases and bacteriological Warring Methods, with Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 517 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We've established the agenda according to an emergency procedure. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the Rules of Procedure... First and second reading. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the report at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? Yeah. Mr. Ivan Jarnjak, Chairman of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69143	Dear Mr Vice-President, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security at the 72nd session held on 26 June 2006 discussed the draft of the law in question. And after the members of the Committee are informed of the reasons and interests that suggest the adoption of the law in question under emergency procedure, the Committee unanimously supported and proposed to the Parliament the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on the Prohibition of Use in the War of Suffocious, Toxic or Similar Gases and bacteriological Warring Methods in the text as proposed by the legislator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69144	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Vesna Scare Ozbolt. She's gone. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69145	The final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Protocol prohibiting use in the war of stifled, toxic or similar gases and bacteriological methods of warfare. I am voting on the final draft of the law. We can vote. The result? Consistent with 88 votes, the proposed law was passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69146	20. Proposal for a Law confirming the accession of the Republic of Macedonia to the Central European Free Trade Treaty, with the Final Proposal for the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 520 Proposer is the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. By establishing the agenda, we have determined the urgency of the procedure. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. You received the report at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? No, I don't. Does the Committee’s rapporteur want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Mr Bozidar Pankretic called for a debate outside the HSS club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69147	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. Well, here I am not going to be long since no one answered for a word about this contract. But I think it's necessary to say a few sentences about this contract. I don't know if you might have looked at it wasn't even a little material, it's pretty thick. There's a lot of stuff in there, especially if you open up some pages, then you'll come for example. up to certain protocols and certain conditions to be conditional upon the addition of the Protocol here. If you take a closer look at this whole contract, then you will certainly be drawn to the question of the exchange of agricultural concessions between the Republic of Croatia and Macedonia. And I must honestly say, by reading here all the articles of this whole contract, I must say that this contract that was made, especially as regards the 48th Protocol in this part, has been done relatively well, and I think that the negotiators of the Republic of Croatia have done the maximum possible in relation to that if conditions are imposed in relation to certain concessions. So for example, when you look a little bit more closely at these certain things, here I'm going to concentrate on one segment, that's for example. import of wine, grapes from the Republic of Macedonia. It is a very clear quota of about 50 tonnes, which certainly cannot have a more significant impact on the production of wine and winemaking in the Republic of Croatia. But I will use this opportunity to make it very clear that there is a contract here, meaning CEFTA's contract concluded with the Republic of Macedonia and which clearly defines certain facts. However, we are all witnessing certain stories that all of these things we have defined with the Republic of Macedonia in this treaty, but also with other countries, especially with countries in the former Yugoslavia, and I will say this in particular to Serbia, Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina in some future CEFTA talks in a different way. I think here in this contract is an indication of everything that our aspirations are related to CEFTA, related to free trade. If we see that all other contracts in the future will be like this contract made, then every country that wants to enter the CEFTA, which wants to enter into free trade with the Republic of Croatia, applies everything that the Republic of Macedonia has applied in this part of it, then neither do we have any concerns about any, any Western Balkans or any association that is predicted for us in the future. If it's not going to be predicted this way and it's not going to be detailed as it was done in this protocol, then I'm afraid we're going to have terrible consequences. Here, I am supporting this and reporting very briefly in this part only appeal to any future agreements that we are making, especially agreements that will refer to a future CEFTA, under quotes, we need to be guided by clear principles. The Agreement and Stabilisation Treaty with Europe, association with the WTO, and then we can discuss CEFTA with conditions that must be clearly defined. If we avoid these conditions, I'm afraid we'll have a lot of problems, and then maybe some inconspicuous commercial consequences in which we speak in the long run, and that's unfortunately called a shoulder-down when we talk about the enormous imports of agricultural and food products and all the consequences of things like this sometimes, unfortunately, for which no one has reported from the MPs today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69148	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69149	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. At first, I would like to say that the HDZ Club will support the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Macedonia to the Central European Free Trade Treaty because we consider it a further step in strengthening and Croatian positions in the region, as well as stabilising the situation in the area of Southeast Europe. The main reasons why countries enter the CEFTA and seek membership are that they participate in improving and improving overall trade relations with Member States, improving trade activities, increasing productivity, achieving financial stability on the principles of the market economy and liberalising trade. In short, there are conditions for raising living standards and ensuring better employment opportunities. The Republic of Croatia also became a full member of CEFTA on 1 March 2003 for the same reasons, and the additional entry into CEFTA represents and was then a useful preparation for Croatia's entry and membership into the European Union because CEFTA mechanisms are known and in line with EU and global trade organisation rules. As part of the CEFTA, therefore, the countries are preparing for co-operation and action within the Union's common market. The principle of the existence of a market economy and the ability of market factors to cope with competitive pressures and market legality is the basis on which Croatia must build its trade relations with current and future members of the European Union. By entering CEFTA, Croatia has also politically improved its international position towards other integrations, primarily towards the European Union, and the economic significance has been to open access to Croatian products on the CEFTA market, it has made it possible to increase investment and co-operation in the fields of energy and infrastructure, tourism and other areas. Developing such a regional component of its foreign policy, Croatia has also supported the European aspirations of Southeast European countries as well as Macedonia, and since the official handover of Macedonia's full membership application to CEFTA, which was accepted in Sofia in June 2004, Croatia has provided support for Macedonia and its negotiations for full membership in CEFTA. As far as bilateral relations are concerned, Croatia is continuing a successful political dialogue at all levels already established, and in the next period the emphasis is precisely on intensifying economic co-operation and this contract is a framework in which this co-operation can be further improved. What does Croatia get with this contract? This Treaty regulates import duties on industrial products, concessions, agricultural products, defines the concept of the product of origin and the way of administrative cooperation. This contract comes from the principle of reciprocity and openness in the trade in horns, it provides general exceptions, security exemptions, state monopolies, rules of competition for companies, state aid, public procurement, denping and the like. The contract is a significant step towards strengthening economic ties and increasing trade and it simply removes barriers to free flow of goods, services and capital. This contract is an integral part of the Central European Free Trade Treaty and constitutes an additional component for expanding and increasing free trade space, provides a space for smooth economic co-operation that our economies simply need to make better use of. Here is an example of this in 2005 exports to Bulgaria increased 38%, to Romania by 17%, while the increase in exports to Macedonia was 11%. The recent entry of Bulgaria and Romania into the European Union has raised the issue of CEFTA upgrades and modifications to what Mr Pankretic was talking about and its expansion on the Southeast European country. Croatia has also taken the initiative and we believe that this is useful for our national interests and for the interests of the entire area of Southeast Europe because in this way Croatia assumes responsibility for the stability of Southeast Europe and ensures the position of a key state which, by its political, economic and other achievements, becomes actually a model for other countries of the region. The idea of expanding the CEFTA has been given unanimous support both in Southeast Europe and the European Union, and the first round of negotiations on amending and supplementing the accession of the Central European Free Trade Treaty is being held in Brussels these days. It expressed its willingness to end the negotiations by the end of September of this year and to sign an amending and supplementing agreement with CEFTA by the end of 2006. Finally, I would just like to say that the new extended CEFTA and the removal of barriers will help resuscitate trade and will also contribute to faster economic growth both in Croatia and in other countries of the region, and I think there are no doubt reasons to support this law, i.e. the proposal for this law. The HDZ Club will do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69150	Thank you very much. There's no closing word. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69151	Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Macedonia to the Central European Free Trade Treaty. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 83 for and 6 abstentions passed the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69152	Switching to — 13. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Croatian National Bank, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 521 The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you received the proposal by mail. In the adoption of this Act... which refers to the first reading of the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Mr. Ante Zigman, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69153	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Here is the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian National Bank. So, in April 2001, the last time the Law on the Croatian National Bank was changed was when the Parliament gave full and much greater independence to the financial and second and independence of the Croatian National Bank, of course, in order to achieve the objective clearly, which is primarily price stability and of course support for the economic growth of the Republic of Croatia. According to the 2001 Act, the Croatian National Bank is fully independent and independent in achieving its objective and therefore such independence represents a standard in all market economies, since it thus prevents the abuse of monetary policy for other purposes, which, of course, leads to loss for the whole society in the long term, is primarily meant by economic instability, i.e. inflation. It is independently viewed through the institutional, functional, personal and financial independence that the Croatian National Bank has in those four pillars. So institutional independence, that means that Croatian National Bank decisions cannot be influenced by other institutions. Functional independence refers to a clear objective and independence by selecting measures and instruments of monetary policy. Personal independence therefore guarantees protection of Croatian National Bank officials from pressure and excludes conflict of interest and precisely defines the choice and resolution of governors and council members. Finally, financial independence means that income and expenditure determines the nature of monetary policy. The amendments and additions to this Act on the Croatian National Bank relate first and foremost to the harmonisation of the legal system governing the formation and tasks of the Croatian National Bank at the time of Croatia's accession to the European Union, as at that time the Croatian National Bank will become a member of the European System of Central Banks. The Croatian National Bank has therefore become part of the system in which all 25 members of the European Union's central banks are now located since the date of accession without prejudice to its clear objective, which is therefore primarily price stability and support for the general economic policy. The amendments above also relate to the regulation of the legal framework allowing the introduction of the euro as monetary units of the Republic of Croatia under which the Croatian National Bank is obliged from the day of the introduction of the euro to carry out its tasks relating to matters relating to the establishment and implementation of monetary and foreign exchange policy, the management of international reserves, the issue of banknotes and almost money as well as the regulation, improvement and supervision of the payment system in accordance with the rules and uniform policy of the European System of Central Banks and their Statutes. These changes do not mean, of course, the exclusion of the Croatian National Bank in the implementation of its tasks but thus enable the active participation of the Croatian National Bank in the achievement of monetary and foreign policy at the level of the entire system of the central banks of the European Union, and of course the issue of banknotes and coins in accordance with the decisions of the European Central Bank. The Croatian National Bank retains full independence in part of its tasks relating to the approval and supervision of banks and the regulation of their business in the Republic of Croatia. Amendments and additions to the Law on the Croatian National Bank relate to achieving full independence, therefore, which represent practice as I mentioned earlier by an institutional, functional, personal and financial nature which represents the practice of all modern market economy countries and does not allow for the influence of other bodies and institutions. Institutional and functional independence is evident in the fact that the tasks of the Croatian National Bank are explicit by law and for the implementation of the same Croatian National Bank is always and only responsible for the Croatian Assembly. Financial independence is evident by the fact that the CNB has its potential losses to cover from its own funds reserves in the current law, so in case there was a loss to the Croatian National Bank, this was therefore settled through the state budget. In these amendments, therefore, full financial responsibility would be at the central bank. The amendments to the laws also propose complete personal independence and professionalisation of the administration, so the management of the Croatian National Bank, so the National Bank Council, which may be the biggest change. Therefore, in accordance with the Protocol of the Statutes of the European System of Central Banks, the Governor, five vice governors and three members who must perform their duties in full time and must not perform any other function, so that the Governor, the Vice-Governor and the other three members are appointed by the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Committee for Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs with the opinion of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Of course, such an arrangement has avoided influence, any external influence, therefore, on the achievement of the total tasks of the Croatian National Bank in the duration of the term of office, which takes six years for members of the council or for the management of the central bank. Here, so much for the proposer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69154	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is on behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69155	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable representatives of the Croatian Government of the Proposer of this bill! I think this bill is absurd. I cannot be impressed, or I must say my impression that the debate on this bill is not important for me to enter the European Union, according to the Proposer and the law does not signify me with P.Z.E. I agree with that. So it doesn't matter when Croatia enters the European Union, not even how it enters the European Union. It is important that citizens of the Republic of Croatia will live when they enter the European Union. Therefore, in any law, and in particular in laws touching the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia in any capacity, national interest must be defined. This is the legitimate right of each member of the European Union or of each member of the United Nations. That is why I must say that the Government does not seem to have a strategy to improve the competitiveness of the Republic of Croatia until it enters the European Union. The next question is when will the Republic of Croatia enter the European Union and become a member of the European Monetary Union. There's no consensus or we can guess. We can wish. This law has two parts and formal and real. It is one that speaks of the current needs to change the law because of the election or re-election of governors and jokes of the governor of the National Bank Council and that need can be understood. And the second part of the law that is set out here has the need to distract us from the first part, because it will not apply for five or maybe seven years. And if colleagues and colleagues were to be applied, someone should tell me today and this law calls for what is the European Union's economic policy. And here it is described that the Croatian National Bank must implement the policy, economic policy of the European Union. Let's get back to our current situation. The Croatian National Bank has three tasks under the current law and governors and all representatives of even the government and legislators of laws relating to the Croatian National Bank stress only one to ensure price stability. Is the purpose of the Republic of Croatia's economy just price stability? Of course not. The point of all of us here is to work and try to ensure that the quality of life of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and everything, the task of all institutions in the country is just that. That's all it is. Such a task is in, under 2nd and Croatian National Bank. It therefore supports the economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to ensure that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia live as best as possible. And the third task is bank control. Are we in the Croatian Parliament, yesterday we tried to analyze what was happening in the Republic of Croatia with the banking sector as a whole on the Croatian National Bank Governor's report. Let us not speak since 1991 but since 1993 when the Stabilisation Programme is adopted and when what is claimed and what are the results of this banking policy and banking sector as a whole in the Republic of Croatia? So the Croatian National Bank itself has not lost a year of its claims, in a report official to this Parliament that this state, these citizens, in the conversion and privatisation of Croatian banks, has lost only a simple account by resuscitating these banks and selling them in a Croatian way almost two billion kunas. My colleagues and colleagues in last 2005 made a profit of nearly 4 and a half billion kuna. And we, we agree that now I am going back to the law of the Croatian Parliament frees up the responsibilities of the Croatian National Bank and says to her: choose to arrange your statute as you wish, we will not give you consent. Is and is not yet Croatia in the European Union. There are still tasks that the Croatian National Bank must work to support the economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and to raise the economic and any other competitive capacity of the Republic of Croatia until the entry into the European Union. And we now accept it as crucial whether we enter the European Union next year or 5 years from now? We do not need any control over the Statute of the Croatian National Bank. The promoter tells us you can give an opinion, and you don't have to give an opinion. She doesn't even know if they could ask me for an opinion or not? And what would that mean if they gave it to them? So we have no right to do so under the current Constitution. But there is no need because tomorrow we are not in the European Monetary Union or members of the European Union. That this is the intention of us to deal with the 8th and 9th chapters, so the loss of monetary sovereignty in order to past Articles 6 and 8 so that the failure to agree on the Statute is neither clear nor clear to me now. It is predicted that the Croatian Parliament appoints the Vice-Governors but you know how? In a way that two working bodies, I respect the Committee on Selection and Designation because the Rules of Procedure have appointed this body as a designated body. And with the opinion of the Finance Committee or whatever it is already called, which is not intended for the Rules of Procedure, but that is less important. However, when elected by the governor, he is named vice governors, members of the Council, and he has no influence on that. He has no right to propose. And it is necessary to lead such an important institution, especially until it enters the European Union. For this reason, I propose that, before the adoption of this law, an analysis be carried out which is necessary in the banking sector of the Republic of Croatia in the coming period before the entry into the European Union, but also to analyse once again the effects of the privatisation of Croatian banks and what is the participation of these Croatian banks in privatisation in general in the Republic of Croatia? Without that, we won't be able to draw the line. I'm afraid we won't even be able to get out of this vicious circle. Let's talk hypothetically now. If we were to join the European Union tomorrow and the day after tomorrow the European Monetary Union should we need a central national bank? I would. Of course you would. We will not give up the instruments achieved by monetary policy, regardless of whether it will be run in the European System of Central Banks or the European Central Bank, Croatia will have its interests in monetary policy. Who will represent these interests of the Republic of Croatia in these banks? This law doesn't say anything about it. But Bianca transfers the National Bank's powers to the European Bank system and the European Central Bank. Are we going to control your payment system? Or are we going to transfer that to the European central, central bank? Maybe even formally pass it on and I wouldn't be surprised at it. But our national central bank will certainly be responsible for the direct control of this system. And when that happens in the Croatian Parliament for our policy and our policy in general in the monetary system and according to the European Union, our central national institution will answer to us. That is why I think there is no reason, and even if it is necessary to legislate before the European Union in the process of screening or accession that we in the Parliament and even before them do not open a debate on our interests both now and after the accession of the European Union. It is not possible that the Republic of Croatia has no or no interest in the next few years to speed up its development through monetary policy with greater risks, because we do not have the right to wait. That is why I think that this law must really come to the Croatian Parliament before adoption with all the analyses proposed. And I am surprised that we are now heading towards the Croatian National Bank to give her an absolute lady from the Parliament a separate role when we are not yet in the European Union. Let us restore the obligation to confirm the statute in the Croatian Parliament, not to touch independence in the creation of monetary policy, but we ask that the Croatian National Central Bank supports its measures to develop and economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, no matter what option it is from. It's a national interest and we have to insist on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69156	Thank you. On behalf of the club HSP, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69157	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Prime Minister. Well, the only thing that's well related to the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian National Bank is the fact that we managed to take down the urgency of this procedure, means that at the request of my club, and so do the other clubs, I think the HSS and the SDP join. That's the only positive thing about it. Because the Croatian Party of Rights, in accordance with its political responsibility and political protection of Croatian national interests, cannot support this bill even in its first reading. And I say that for a number of reasons. I'll try to tell you the most important reasons. It is indisputable that the entire text of the final bill, i.e. the law, is now made in the Croatian National Bank itself, while the Ministry of Finance played a role here as a postman. So it appeared at the Government and we received such text of the law in the Croatian Parliament. In fact, it's visible from all of this, because listening to the governor's report yesterday on business for 205 years, he filed there one whole exposé on his entire mandate, that is the fundamental purpose and... It was the Croatian National Bank, their mandate stands out, how to secure a second mandate and a newspaper that will primarily be in their interest and that would protect them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's good, which means we managed to take off that urgency procedure. The entire starting point of the proposed amendments to the Law on the Croatian National Bank consists of full identification and in identifying the role and functions of the entire Croatian National Bank as the central bank with its own objectives, interests of the managers of the Croatian National Bank who are now using all available media and their journalists for the so far unseen lobbying to remain in the current functions of the Croatian National Bank and to which they were brought by the former government in 2000. The proposal for amending the law focuses exclusively on solutions which, indefinitely, wish to immobilise a high level of authority for the Governor and Vice Governor of the Croatian National Bank. While, at the same time as the tasks of the Croatian National Bank, all the essential provisions which assume the carrying of personal responsibilities in fulfilling its role as the central bank in the country's overall economic policy, which is characteristic of all the central banks in the world, have been incorporated into regulation in their business and objectives. That's not for us, of course. The proposal for amendments to the CNB Act was literally made to the extent of the private interests of several influential people in the Croatian National Bank, as well as centres of power in the Republic of Croatia and abroad that brought them to their current functions, while at the same time even the Croatian Parliament is denied any right of insight into the business of the Croatian National Bank. Nor does anyone else in Croatia have any insight into the legality of the business of management of the Croatian National Bank, which is a unique case in the world. We are free to assume that this is also the best way to hide the professional and professional incompetence of a particular part of the current leadership, which is best witnessed by the results of the work for the six-year term from mid-2000 to 2006. During that period of 6 years, CNB achieved the same poor results, as well as manifested by a number of illegal actions and criminal behaviour, especially by individual vice-governments and individual individuals. Therefore, according to official data, business losses for this period of 6 years are achieved according to audited data. The mandate amounted to $1.31 billion or something, or cca 150m euros, which is the highest negative financial result of all Croatian state institutions. The losses are also made in the business of the Croatian foreign reserves, which are entrusted to the management of the Croatian National Bank. The collapse of Rijeka Bank with a loss of cca 87m euros, of which the Croatian National Bank sought to fence, although it is the only one who cares about orderly business under the law. He has the authority to monitor and control banks. Giving illegal consent to fictitious sales and false privatisation of the largest bank, Zagreb, which through manipulation of the Croatian public through its media and fraud of shareholders of the Croatian National Bank during the night became a private bank from the state bank. Even though to this day no one or anyone in Croatia or abroad has ever paid a single kuna or euro to the Croatian state in the state budget, which has done more serious crimes. The CNB gave permission, a solution to fictitious privatisation and a fake sale of Zagreb Bank, Zagreb, which is now market-rated for some 2.5 billion euros. And that is the amount de facto the Republic of Croatia lost by that transaction or by fictitious privatisation. Inaccurate formation of so-called the founding capital of the Croatian National Bank as an institution of €2.5 billion out of nothing since no one in or outside the Republic of Croatia has paid any capital in the CNB but are so-called Accounting chemistry, voluntary decision of the management of the Croatian National Bank, so-called exchange rate differences without any legal basis declared by capital. There's a huge gap, and there's a huge gap in bank surveillance and control. Since the control service of the Croatian National Bank is unable to act preventively. 33 banks and savings banks failed to prevent difficulties in business in any case. As a result of the poor organisation of the national service, only a small part of the banking system’s activity as well as the lack of quality controllers, or bank inspectors, can be monitored. Bad conduct of the country's credit-monetary policy which is exclusively in the function of importing interesting lobbys and de facto encourages permanent... Republic of Croatia abroad. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The current leadership of the CNBs, which seemed to me as well as the objective, was constantly declaring itself to be a high foreign debt of the Republic of Croatia, although all the measures it has taken and brought to the end of the debt not only did foreign debt slow down but foreign debt uncontrollably and is constantly growing, making the Republic of Croatia one of the most indebted countries of the so-called so-called "indebted". transit countries. Measures by the Croatian National Bank in the area of stopping... the debt was and are now delayed, wrong and as such counterproductive, and it is logical not to give the expected result. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For the sake of the country's high responsibilities, which exceeds 90% of the GDP, the Republic of Croatia is in the position of economic lagging, growing poverty and with an increasingly poor survival perspective even in the context of the country's entry into the European Union. The change in credit-monetary policy would also give the CNB as a central bank and the Croatian economy much more chances than risks since such a situation is unsustainable for a long period of time. The CNB as an institution has no reputation for solving any problems present in the country's economic life but has only established it, built a mechanism for imposing its own attitudes as an axiom, especially with regard to resolving the country's fiscal problems, which all in Croatia should follow unnecessarily. In the current proposal for the CNB Act, provision has been put in place that the only objective of the CNB is to achieve and maintain price stability while e.g. economic growth and development, unemployment, fostering economic... and maintenance of liquidity in payments abroad are completely out of the interest of the Croatian National Bank, i.e. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Croatian National Bank so regulatoryly becomes an institution that is its own purpose, which is not the case with central banks especially transit countries to which the Republic of Croatia belongs. If the CNB, for example. is no longer responsible for maintaining liquidity in payments to abroad, is it not opportune to ask the question of the purpose of keeping and managing the foreign reserves of the Republic of Croatia by the Croatian National Bank, which are, for example, the Croatian National Bank? through the applicable Law on... business defined to serve exactly to maintain liquidity in payments to abroad. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Holding and managing the foreign reserves of the Republic of Croatia, the management of the CNB does not, of course, want to give up, because the revenues on placements now account for more than 90% of the total income achieved by the Croatian National Bank as institutions such as the Croatian National Bank. ... to maintain liquidity in payments abroad, and for which these same foreign reserves only serve, means a very interesting case. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Similarly, the question is raised why the CNB as the central bank, which is the only one responsible for the functioning of the Croatian banking system, has never proposed laws on the privatisation of banks, thus allowing the open way to de facto uncontrollable privatisation of the same, i.e. something's turned into nothing, and what's the consequence... There are almost no more banks of our own, and we have heard from our colleagues Lek about the annual profits and incomes of banks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As the main reason for that position in the CNB Act, it is also stated... the normal post-it which is precisely proposed by the NH legislative provisions of the Republic of Croatia, the legislation draws closer to regulatory solutions that are in force within the European Union and cannot, of course, be against it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since it is a matter of easy confidential inaccuracy and knowingly deluding representatives of the Croatian Parliament as well as the general public, it is easy to see the applicable laws on central banks, e.g. Germany, Switzerland, Slovenia, the Czech Republic, Hungary etc. that this is not the case with them, though what we stand for. Since the text of the proposal of the CNB Act is in many of its provisions below the professional criteria of the banking profession. In that spirit, there is no definition of who, for example, is there. may be the governor or vice governor of the CNB, with what professional competences, working experience and with what bank biography the person concerned must have. At the same time, the CNB through the Banks Act accurately prescribes who may be the managing person or member of the management of a commercial bank, but here we do not, when they prescribe then it must be. Who and whose consent is appointed after carrying out the expertise of the previous professional experience and presented programmes of the Bank's work during the next period. As a diet, we are free to mention here that this happened in the appointment of the current leadership of the Croatian National Bank in mid-2000, that for certain vice-governments people were chosen without any relevant experience and professional banking skills, actually bankers in mature years. So far, poor experience with the management of the CNB staff, especially vice governors and their unquestionable responsibility for numerous scandals and illegal actions in the banking system, which the Republic of Croatia through various resolutions and additions to banks cost $13.7 billion, requires extreme caution and great responsibility in selecting governors and vice governors. The proposal of the CNB Act ignores this as well as the numerous other provisions that are present in the laws of central banks in the world. The proposed provisions also marginalise the role of the advice of the Croatian National Bank, which, by law, is responsible for the management of the CNB, because the central bank's advice should be done and the majority of the central banks should be, as is the case in the regulation of the central banks of developed countries, representatives of the groups, for example. Industry, consumers, professional associations, trade unions, and somehow they are proposed to be a wave of nine employees of the Croatian National Bank, with the exception of 3 members from the university community and all proposed by the governor. This is an additional centralisation of the power of the CNB leadership without any control, because the CNB under such a bill for its work does not correspond literally to anyone in the Croatian state, since only powers, not responsibilities, are defined for the people of the CNB, and we serve them only as voting machines in the Croatian Parliament, we cannot ask them what they do, how they do, where they lead to Croatia, where they owe it, but we just have to raise our hands. We are against it, I say we do not support even in first reading this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69158	Thank you. On behalf of the HSU Club, Mr. Representative Dragutin Pukleš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69159	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed head of the ministry, the esteemed fellow MPs. The monetary system is significant if not a decisive factor in the overall system of sovereignty of a single country. However, modern states that rest on integration gradually integrate economic and political functions leading to limited sovereignty or transfer of sovereignty. This applies in particular to the European Union, which has taken up a significant part of the sovereignty of individual members of the European Union through the establishment of the European Monetary Union and the euro currency. Countries entering the European Union are gradually leaving monetary sovereignty or transferring it to the Union. That process runs in two stages. The first stage is the accession to the Union and the second accession to the European Monetary Union, by accepting the euro as a single currency. Croatia must cross that path in the next seven to eight years, but it is not obliged to speed up the process, which means that until the entry into the European Monetary Union can be served with its own currency and have complete monetary sovereignty. The proposal to change the structure of the Croatian National Bank did not reflect the above-mentioned possibilities by suggesting that the loss of monetary sovereignty is in fact an acceleration of the path towards the Union. That's obviously not true. Therefore, many proposals are contained in the redesign unnecessary and are even more difficult to counterproductive. The reason is the need for Croatia to achieve structural reforms before entering the European Union and to reduce the foreign debt which represents the same path towards nominal and then real convergence. In the proposal for the reshuffle of the Croatian National Bank there are decisions that completely change the Council of the Croatian National Bank which are an explanation as a technical procedure but are essentially a threat of serious intrusion into the monetary sovereignty of the state. Thus, it is firstly proposed that the Council of the Croatian National Bank be composed of six members of the CNB including the governor and that three remaining members be appointed by the Assembly. The three members would become members of the Croatian National Bank, so its employees. The membership structure established under the proposal would mean abolishing the sovereignty of the state on a monetary basis since all members of the council would become employees of the Croatian National Bank. In this way, the council would no longer be a political expert body but also a professional college of the Croatian National Bank, a political sovereignty whose council holder would thus be sentenced. Along with said members of the council, the proposal sets out beyond and above the Croatian Constitution, as their shift can only be announced by the Union and not by the Croatian State. Also for their legal formalization... As already said, Croatia is facing deep structural reforms. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also common in our political and professional practice, and reforms are interpreted as reforming the rule of law and civil society, but it is essentially much more serious reforms in the material system and material structure. This relates to the problems of restoring production, the issue of unemployment, the status of the pensioners and the external responsibility of the country. All this without the monetary sovereignty of this reform will not be possible. Therefore, the loss of that sovereignty poses an extremely high risk to policymakers and the country's future strategy. Taking into account all these facts we talked about, the Croatian Party of Retirement cannot support such a bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69160	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative of the Arthrial Shima. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69161	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Here are a few thoughts, given that this is the first reading and that we still have enough time to get in line with the adoption of this extremely important law. It should be noted in the introduction that the existing law adopted in 2001 was then passed under these conditions in such a way as to define the tasks of the Croatian National Bank and the minimum responsibility for the tasks it carries out. Here's what it's like in that time I'd like to do it again because there's a few but I only point out those crucial ones. The main goal is we've already heard and most confirm that also stabilising prices. Not just, there's a course, there's a whole series of others. But also perhaps the third area of regulation of Croatia's external trade relations through payment traffic, and I am particularly apostrophe of bank control. Now I'm asking the question and the dilemma right now since here here today is being debated in such a way, and just confirming the first thought that the goals have been well established, but it's a very bad responsibility for who was responsible in the CNB and in the Croatian society at all, and especially in the CNB because they were responsible, responsible and responsible for the control of banks, who was responsible for the failure of such a series of banks. No one. Therefore, responsibility did not result. This model that we have had in a large way and this model that comes from both general liberalisation and freedom of national central banks stems from Anglo-Saxon law. This right was launched by the Americans, by the English and others, and changed significantly by them, in such a way as to determine the much greater responsibility of national banks for the national economy or economy in this part of the economy as a whole and through all these other elements. But they also found responsibility for the actions or consequences that such policies could produce. And we have found a surrogate before and in part and now, to which rights and in particular to point out that we have established these freedoms may even have to be complemented with this responsibility in the economy but also with consequences and responsibility for all the goals that we set for such monetary authority. The monetary authority is only one of a series of authorities within the society responsible for the situation in that society and which, of course, must have certain cooperation. She's reporting to the Parliament. However, what results? We saw, here we were three years old. Not only these three years, but until now, sixteen years ago, so we've seen what results in such responsibility through that report coming to these benches. The lessons learned by such experience must then set certain doubts, so tonight I repeat, given that it is the first reading. I will try only a few of these doubts to point out that we have accepted the SAA in the meantime and in the meantime we have become a candidate for entry into the European Union. So, something... Well, that's good, so let's go ahead and try to figure out a different situation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I also point out some of my positive and negative experiences because I've been there for three years or three years and a member of that, such advice as he was so far, so I can kind of compromise what's going on. In the case of basic functions, the question of the statutes. There are lawyers more likely to answer that question, but it seems to me that the CNB Act should regulate everything but not all the details within it but all the conditions of business of the CNB. However, with the statutes and internal acts without ambition that we are getting involved in this area, there is still a question of whether there is space, and as far as I know there is a certain space that even in a different way regulate relations within the CNB, that in fact then they fully realize autonomy in which this House cannot have certain control over these operations. So it seems to me that it is still questionable whether the statutes completely shut down or possibly leave it to this House statute to confirm. Because the statute is a fundamental act, the law is passed, but if we can't even know what the statutes contain and from it come all the other acts, then it's just questionable. Here's a detail just inside that. For example, members of the council of course have their regular salary other than outsiders plus I think about 7 thousand kuna fees for membership in the council. Now, after the adoption, eventually... This bill will probably be renamed Rules of Procedure and I don't know which internal acts are renamed to pay, so it will probably respect the rights but not enough and obligations, a member of the Council has a higher salary than the prime minister. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I ask the question indirectly is it okay in a society like this, and it's only responsible for monetary policy segments? And the prime minister is responsible for the country's overall economic policy... Which will be. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it is now a question that we should resolve until the next reading, and even if I were to have the right to speak on behalf of the Club, and if I could personally, here, allow a digression to even advocate that the Statute remains under the control of the Parliament because of the basic act. Secondly, the question of these details, courses, payment traffic and the rest are all technical details that can be arranged in one way or another because there is no universal solution that we can overwrite from someone, so we'll figure it out. Of course, most of this and the overall monetary autonomy of the HDZ Club is in favour and we will fight until the end to keep monetary autonomy fully in place to join the European Union. Since the entry into the European Union, of course, we must accept the rules of the central bank and then fight for the greatest of our interests to protect the economy. And from then on, when it enters the monetary union, then it will have to be accepted and part of the monetary policy. And that's what it's all about. Until then, we've got plenty of time to talk. Now very short on advice because time flies. Current advice says he's a surrogate of some earlier solutions. I can't confirm or deny. They say that this, not a similar model that we have today in the advice of the CNB, there seems to be only one country in Europe. If that's true, then that's why there's no need to argue about it, that it can be changed. Now it's a question of how to change and how to ask that so that it can act autonomously? The envisaged model predicts that the governor plus five vice governors and plus three members, so after the doubt, here was my question on the board, does that mean these three are on the outside? No, I don't. They are all 9 now from that solution and must be in a working relationship, full-time. This implies that business is not done by its companies and comes monthly, once the advice is met monthly, and that the watch, then the two hours there, be a member of that Council and thus does not contribute to the maximum and solutions and problems it has there, and even less responsibility for the solutions it finds and which can contribute there. Therefore, on the choice of governors and the possibility or variant is left, the solution is not really a variant for the governor to choose a deputy, so that means he would not be chosen by this House or by anyone but by the governor to choose and appoint his deputy from the ranks of those who would take the advice. Here are the nine people this House should choose and confirm. We think it's okay and yes, whether it's going to be 9, 7, 11 but that this model could be implemented to be satisfying on condition I repeat again with those dilemmas of the previous that we had that we should further explain and especially strengthen responsibility because that responsibility has not been sufficiently arranged and defined so far. In the case of other provisions relating to current and operational operations, these are these reports that come to the CNB here. We already know the mechanism. Earlier someone said why the Committee on Finance and I ask you, but now the appointment of governors also gives an opinion because it is now a valid solution. Is it okay or isn't it a different story? So this solution was probably followed by this solution, and this solution then that the appointment of an extended team goes that same way, by procedure. But anyway, this House, not someone else, no matter what proposal you're making earlier. Within that solution, which the CNB issues, which is proposed to be final and which is generally meant by those rights, controls, bank controls and controls that they have the right to control so that they can issue solutions that they don't then drag litigation for years that would result in an actual blockage of the CNB. I guess that's how it's supposed to stay that way. Now this second block of topics which, and another thought about this first part, I would end up with, absolutely, standing up for full independence, independence and all that is said by the CNB, but in any case, that the degree and responsibility for such action should be increased, and then, of course, that inner structure that will result in both the effect and the action and the report and the responsibility of this House so that it can re-acting the work of the CNB. But to act in a way that corrects it, not to regulate or determine it in advance or daily, even more pre-emptively, that it may potentially work on it. As far as external relations are concerned, absolutely, that in no way does it occur to us to give up autonomy, monetary autonomy until the entry into these two provisions of entry that chapter 8 and 9 seems to me that would only take effect when the entry into the European Union or later into the Monetary Union occurs that, possibly now, I am redecorating what I am probably doing since we have become a candidate country, and in this case, we would not be costing us in advance of giving up monetary autonomy or independence in that part. I therefore believe that at this point, greater attention should be paid to relations and responsibilities within the society for the common economic situation within the country. And that is why we suggest that this proposal go to first reading and the prime minister supported it without saying a word. It's leaving, here it is now, and I'm done with this official exposure. We support it in the first reading, so we'll see it in the second. We hope that out of all these suggestions and the idea that the more proposer will also install something inside of it and one thought about the current doubts because they are set up on the Committee today, this is actually an addition beyond this. He says, "Okay, but wait for the mandate to end on July 12th, and what about it now?" So I guess lawyers or someone else will find some kind of normal solution. So we accepted another reading. Well, I guess we won't be so crazy that we're going to allow in these conditions, in this situation where the appreciation pressure is enormous, terrifying, when it happens within the system right now, especially during these summer months extremely significant tasks functions that will not be allowed to happen for one hour and not 24 hours any solution will be without a solution, which, of course, can't affect, because the application of a possible new law will be regulated in a new way under new conditions. I suppose it can have no consequence, nor can it happen that monetary government ceases to function in any way. So here, in a way, by removing such dilemmas, I doubt that this bill should be devoted to and finding an optimal solution that I hope is a consensus when it's only a technical question that neither of us or any of the parties or individuals would give in to monetary autonomy, independence to anyone until we have to do so when we accept rights and obligations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69162	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69163	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Representative of the Government. So here's a few sentences. First, I will say that it is good to see myself almost by consensus that everyone agreed that it would not be good and that the prime minister had accepted that this law was going according to an urgent procedure and that the principle that it was the first reading was generally accepted. I have to say, it's going to be a lot easier for me to say as I find the last representative in front of the club, because almost as carefully as I've listened to all the club representatives, I'm done with some important differences. Well, here's the latest presentation of the HDZ Club's representatives confirmed what the predecessors said before. I think it may be extremely important here at first to highlight what we want, what we want and what we could read from what was the CNB report. I wouldn't go into any more detailed analysis. As far as monetary financial sovereignty is concerned, the assessments that have been made I would say that there may have been some political arrangements on certain matters. However, we wanted to or did not want to acknowledge the preservation of monetary and financial sovereignty is one of the most important national issues, and reminding myself of the past and long ago, since the Croatian wallet is long ago not in the Croatian pocket, we are all aware of that, since I would not repeat those discussions that were held here regarding the CNB report and everything that happened to us in the privatisation of the banking system. We're where we are today. Unfortunately, in one extremely difficult situation. And I wouldn't mind if some indicators related to certain things about the CNB and its reports went one way, so I'd advocate why not complete autonomy why not the question of the statutes, why not members of the Council and all of it accepted where it was spoken here, perhaps and pointed out that we are going to the European Union, that there is a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. But I think that we all think seriously enough here and that if we don't have banks already, that if there won't be any now, let me say some normal influence on the Croatian National Bank through this most legislative institution that is the Croatian Parliament. So I'm honestly wondering if maybe you'll finish up all the stuff about this whole thing going the wrong way. So again, I'm asking myself and you here the question of sovereignty, the one that matters to Croatia, the one that might be important to think a little bit about whether it's all lost to Croatian banks, whether some of the processes regarding certain banks should still go back, whether perhaps some banks, such as Croatia, should still be directed in a certain direction, whether these individual influences should prevail with us, whether our thinking that we don't have agrobanks is exactly what Croatian agriculture needs, here, I'm just pushing it as a thought. Or we'll say okay, all of this doesn't matter to us. We don't have inflation, things are going in the right direction. We're in charge so much that we can't possibly be in charge anymore. It all works out, but I'm afraid of least Croatian citizens. So anyway, I think the first download is what I think is positive to evaluate with this bill is that it's not an emergency procedure, which is the first reading, which we all discuss together. And I believe, given the exposure of all the club representatives, I think it's very clear to the promoter what he has to do. Croatia must maintain its monetary sovereignty. Well, I would also have to say the most direct impact on the future of my financial stability in every respect. The question of the statutes is not just a formal question. I think my colleagues pointed out that before me. The statute defines many things very clearly. And without confirming the statutes in this House, I think they would have made a wrong move. We can discuss the members of the Council whether these were the best solutions or whether they should be fixed. But to cut short the whole story about this I think it is important to leave that if the influence of this highest legislative body in the Republic of Croatia on the CNB and then the orientations in which direction should go. Without any clarity, I'd say total politics, so not to mention here now... and many other things that will have a significantly different impact on the overall economic policy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The stories of accelerated economic development, of accelerated economic growth, the stories of production will unfortunately remain only stories. And I believe we're all responsible enough not to stay for one minute, let alone 24 hours without the governor of the CNB, and I think we're all carrying that responsibility together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69164	Thank you very much. There's an individual debate with Mrs. Vesna Scare Ozbolt, who doesn't have the right to debate. And finally, Mr. Ante Zigman, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here I would like to thank only in the end for the constructive proposals and the debate by the representatives. In any case, the government will consider all the proposals that MPs have made today during this debate. I wouldn't be going into a detailed discussion about it right now, I don't think there's any need. So, the government will take them into account and until the second reading will discuss them and in a certain way give its proposal which I hope will be to the satisfaction of all MPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69166	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate and terminating today's session. Tomorrow at 9:30 we begin with the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Property and Other Real Rights, the Law on Forests... The board has not discussed this road, as well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. I'll see you in the morning at 9:30. Have a good one. SESSION Interrupted at 18.37 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-29-0.u69167	The following is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian National Bank. I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian National Bank is adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 68 votes in favour, 8 abstentions and 27 against the proposed conclusion. .../Start not recorded for technical reasons./... 23. Final draft law amending and supplementing the law on ownership and other real rights, second reading of P.Z. No. 390; The Proposer of the Law is the Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Justice, the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, local and regional self-government. State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice Snjezana Bagic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
