ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67717	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, since the Household Activity Act has had a total of 10 amendments and additions to two consolidated texts since 96, it has decided to pass a whole new law although many solutions remain the same. In addition, due to the need to amend certain provisions of the adoption of the new Law on Hostage, it is also provided for a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2006 in accordance with the agreed Plan for the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement for 2006 and the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia for the accession of the European Union for... A year. [[You don't understand.]] Also with a plan for short- and long-term measures to curb the grey economy, the National Consumer Protection Programme for 2005 and 2006, the National Programme for Youth Action and the Croatian Tourism Development Strategy by 2010. Inconsistency with the acquis of the European Union concerns remaining obstacles to the freedom to provide cross-border services. According to the current law, the catering services of citizens in the household can be provided exclusively by Croatian citizens, and the draft proposal deletes this restriction. Moreover, measures to combat the grey economy and protect consumers primarily relate to the regulation of higher amounts of fines for infringements concerning the illegal pursuit of activities, i.e. the provision of services and thus to greater powers for economic inspectors. For the purposes of putting into legal frameworks so far uninvolved, and the present way of carrying out the activity, it is proposed that the catering activity under some additional conditions can also be carried out by the Croatian... Federation, Croatian Mountain Federation and its members, hunting associations and institutions for theatre activity. [[You don't understand.]] The organisation of a resort, except for children's resorts, is proposed to fully commercialise so as not to be unfair competition to the caterers. Working hours of catering facilities are proposed to be regulated by law. The regulation of working hours has led exclusively to decisions of representative bodies of local self-government units, i.e. their chieftainships for individual catering facilities, in view of the different approaches to the needs of tourism, and to frequent complaints about the allowed working time of certain types of facilities, especially those working at night. The business of double objects, a combination of two types of objects, one night bar, night club, disco bar, disco club, totaled about 500 in the whole country, enabled the abuse of allowed working time to disregard prescribed minimum conditions for carrying out activities as well as conditions and protection against noise. The protection of minors through the prohibition of the use of alcohol has not yielded the expected results due to the difficult determination of infringements in the inspection or judicial procedure. It is therefore proposed that supervision should cover the ban on alcohol consumption for minors, with authorities and police officers who are already present on the ground on a daily basis and can be seen more easily... Infractions. [[You don't understand.]] In the households of citizens about 45% of the accommodation facilities available to Croatian tourism is too high a percentage for the quality of the tourist offer Croatia is seeking. In addition, it is estimated that around 20% of the capacities in households are rented on black, i.e. foreign citizens on black rent their holiday homes. Therefore, it is proposed to reduce the limit of 10 rooms, or up to 20 beds that can be rented by citizens, to 7 rooms, or 14 beds, or in a camp with 10 accommodation units, or 30 persons in total, to 7 accommodation units, or 25 persons in total. Examples of similar restrictions in the environment, Germany up to 10 rooms, Italy up to 4 to, 4 rooms no more than 6 beds and for no more than 6 guests. Austria's restriction depends on the provinces, in general 7 to 10 rooms. In the Republic of Croatia, renters have 7 rooms on average. Since the provision of services in rural households has greater restrictions as regards the services that can be provided, it is not a large number of accommodation facilities because rural households primarily provide food and drink services, no reduction of accommodation capacity is foreseen for the rural household. The following consequences are expected following the adoption of this law. The harmonisation of the law with the legal acquis of the European Union, the ease of application and understanding of the law, the reduction of black, or grey economy and work on black, the increase of the state budget and the increase of tourism communities' revenues due to better payment of residence tax, protection of competition, easier business of the caterer, further development of tourism for young people, as a rule the equal arrangement of working time of catering facilities in the whole country, the inability to have a catering facility that works at night as a day as other species, more effective control of bans and service... alcohol by minors, better consumer protection, changes in the structure of accommodation facilities and greater professionalisation of activities, greater respect for legal provisions and greater employment. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67718	Thank you. The committees? Legislative? European integration? Tourism? For tourism, committee president respected representative Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67719	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. At the 33rd session held on 6 June 2006, the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a law on catering activities submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 17 May 2006. The Committee on Tourism has held a debate on the Proposal for a Law on Attending Activity on the basis of its competence under Article 69 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In preparation for the debate on the proposed legislation in question, the Committee collected comments and proposals from the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, Croatian Chamber of Commerce and Professional Associations in the field of catering which it had arranged and as a special material called References and Proposals to the Proposal for a Law on Attending Activities addressed to the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament, which was delivered to all members of the Committee. Representatives of the mentioned chambers and professional associations also participated in the Committee's session. The introductory presentation on the reasons for which the new Household Act is proposed with detailed explanations of individual solutions was submitted by Mr Zdenko Mičić, State Secretary for Tourism. In his opening statement, Ante Markov, president of the Committee, advocated the root changes in Croatian tourism legislation, and in order to create conditions for the rapid development of tourism, and in particular its main activities to simplify the administrative process in the opening of new facilities, as well as to raise the level of quality of tourism services and avoid illegal business. In his presentation, he stressed the importance and potential for the consequences of the proposed new solutions, especially those relating to the liberalisation of entities that can provide catering services, different associations, alliances, institutions and the like. Reduce the number of rooms and beds that citizens can rent in the household as well as accommodation units in campsites, as well as how to determine and prescribe the working time of certain types of catering facilities. In a broad, high-quality and professional discussion, committee members supported the adoption of the bill and presented a whole series of proposals, opinions and views in relation to the content and text of the proposal. In particular, the following issues have been raised in the debate. In order to include in the entities providing catering services, Article 3, health institutions, hospitals and special hospitals should also be included. In order to significantly reduce the existing powers of local self-government units in determining the working time of catering facilities, since the working time of these facilities is a representative body, units of local self-government may extend or shorten the prescribed working time by 2 hours. If it were not clear and the proposed law should be closer to determining what is considered under the location of the area of the settlement, under the term "location of the area of the settlement". In order to enable one of the conditions for issuing a decision on the provision of catering activities if it is carried out in the building or part of the building to be a valid building and use permit. In order to exclude the provision referred to in Article 9(1), point (8) which obliges the delivery of normatives to the competent office, as in some cases these norms may also be a business secret. In order for the transitional and final provisions of the proposed law to set appropriate deadlines for harmonisation, and harsh and high penalties can be assessed as acceptable. In principle, the Committee on Tourism supported the comments and proposals made in the Proposal for a Law on Food Activity referred to by professional associations in the field of hospitality, and agreed that the proposed legal solutions and submitted observations would be discussed with the applicant and before the final draft of the law was established. On the basis of the debate, the Committee on Tourism unanimously decided to propose the following conclusions to the Croatian Parliament. The proposal for a Household Activity Act and any objections and proposals made in the debate shall be adopted to the Proposer for the purpose of preparing the final draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67720	Thank you. Local and regional self-government? I'm opening a debate. The club of HDZ MPs, respected representative Mirjana Brnadić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67721	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will support the proposal for a law on catering activity in the first reading. The adoption of a new Household Activity Act is foreseen by a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2006. In addition, the plan of short- and long-term measures to combat the grey economy as well as the national consumer protection programme for the period 2005/2006. for years, measures are provided for to implement the necessary amendments to the applicable Household Activity Act. The Croatian Tourism Development Strategy by 2010 also envisions the adoption of a new Law on Hosting Activity. In addition to these individual legal solutions, they had to be amended for the purpose of putting into the legal frameworks so far not covered, and the present methods of carrying out catering activities, i.e. by abandoning those that no longer correspond to the development of Croatian tourism. What is expected in Croatian tourism by this Proposal for a Law on Attending Activity? So it's expected to reduce the grey economy and work to black. We have also heard from our secretary of state, better tax and residence fees, the development of tourism for young people, the equal arrangement of working time of catering facilities in the whole country, the determination of rules of exceptions, the inability to operate as a restaurant at night, better consumer protection, changing the structure of accommodation facilities and professionalising activities, and a number of other improvements in terms of eased application and understanding of the law. In this proposal of the law, it is allowed that the catering activities of the Croatian National Ferian Hostel Association can be provided as part of an international association, the Croatian Mountain Association and its members, the Hunting Association, theatres in accordance with their specificities and needs, which covers part of the activities that are not now carried out by professional hosts and therefore illegally provide catering services. At the HDZ Club, we assess the good solution that existing resorts are commercialised and that children's vacations are allowed to be organised by legal and physical persons, not just hosts, in order to ensure summering and wintering of children and primarily lower-income children. We also keep a good solution to the provision of Article 8 which sets out working time for all groups of catering facilities, thereby avoiding current practice that leads to the imbalance of economic operators, given the different approaches of individual units of local self-government, or their heads. So we're going to get equal arrangements for working hours of catering facilities in the entire country, so rules and exceptions. The complaints about allowed working hours of certain types of objects that work all day and all night, where life in that part of the village at night is impossible. Where order was really to be made and we hold that such a legal solution will be achieved. The practice shows that economic inspectors in sanctioning non-reservation of working time under the applicable Act, and these provisions are unchanged, making oral decisions on the prohibition of the provision of catering services on the spot and then a written solution on the prohibition of work with a protective measure of the prohibition of work for 30 days from the date of the oral solution adopted. Such a measure, although many seem rather rigorous, has yielded effective results, forcing guests to respect their working hours, and providing such peace for citizens in the other part of the night. The punishment for a misdemeanor is not effective enough because it comes too long after the offence has been committed and is often a minimum penalty or reproof. The ban on the use of alcohol did not give minors the expectation of results due to the difficulty of determining whether or not the host had bought a adult drink for the minor. It is therefore good that Article 12 prohibits the use, i.e. allowing the consumption of alcoholic beverages in a catering facility to persons under the age of 18. So, the staff of the catering facility estimates that the person is underage, and the same if it's not some ID to the staff to prove it. We also welcome the provision that catering facilities for accommodation, not other catering facilities, are obliged to provide guests with the consequences of the accident. The absence of this obligation calls into question the declared protection of consumers, and the Travel Act obliges travel organisers to use catering facilities in which service users are secured from the consequences of an accident. We believe it was necessary to introduce changes in the area of renting rooms, apartments and holiday homes as catering activities of citizens. Namely, the data show that 45% of the accommodation facilities available to Croatian tourism in the households are citizens who consider experts to be too high a percentage that can endanger the quality of the tourist offer that the Republic of Croatia is seeking. Such a way of providing services in citizens' households is difficult to monitor in the light of a number of objective circumstances. There is a small percentage of registered guests, and thus poor tax revenue. The reduction in the number of rooms, i.e. the number of beds that citizens can rent, we hold that they will raise professionalism, which is necessary for further development of tourism as one of the main economic branches and drivers of the overall economic development of the Republic of Croatia. So the proposed changes will reduce the grey economy and work on black. We heard that there are similar restrictions in Germany, Austria, and in Italy citizens can rent up to 4 rooms with no more than 6 beds. Of course, the transition to professional activity needs to be monitored in certain incentives, and this already seems to be by lending small and medium-sized enterprises through the success incentive programme. I would now like to make comments and suggestions that the HDZ Club has on the Proposal for a Household Activity Act. In accordance with Article 9(1), point (8) which states that the host is obliged to deliver the normatives to the competent office. We believe that it is not necessary to verify the normative but only to deliver knowledge, and that is because every host of quality and quantity is the best guarantee for the guest to be satisfied, and the competition in hospitality is strong, especially on the Adriatic. Article 9(5) suggests that a representative body may determine the areas where services are provided to tourists. We suggest that the representative body determines, not that it can determine the areas in which services are provided to tourists. In Article 26 paragraph 1 of the third indent, we propose that the decision on meeting the conditions for the operation of the catering facility cease to apply with the date indicated in the logout, rather than with the date of submission of the check-out to the competent office. In Article 30(3), we hold that the Health Conditions Regulation can be adopted with the consent of the Minister of Health, not by the competent minister of hospitality. In Article 32, it is necessary to define how members of the household are proved. In Article 43, we hold that only the oral solution should order the removal of tents, campsites and other camping equipment if they are placed outside the campsites and areas designated for camping and immediately charge the penalty on the spot, and if the campers do not have the cash for the fine to carry out the drying of equipment in the value of the fine. Why would you make such a suggestion? For the simple reason that such campers are held very briefly at a specific location, one to two days so you have no place to hand them a written solution, and will deliberately leave the location to avoid delivery of the solution. And why the term of office? If it's against the so-called. It's almost impossible to punish the offender if he's a stranger, and you're home to incredible methods to avoid the hand of justice. This is a violation process that loses complete meaning, and the problem of wild camping remains and creates a very ugly picture, pollutes the environment, and may also be a danger due to possible fires. And let me get this straight. The HDZ Club estimates that the proposed amendments to the Household Activity Act, with all proposals and remarks, will contribute to the creation of conditions for faster development of tourism, especially hospitality as its basic activities, and we will vote that the bill goes to another reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67722	Thank you. IDS representative club, respected representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67723	Dear President, Secretary of State, gentlemen of the ministry, respected colleagues and colleagues. The IDS Club considers this Law to be another one in a series of those who depose local self-government units. I have to say that in recent years tourism has begun to happen to us primarily because of our beauty, and we are trying to destroy it in some way. Others recognize us for beauty, and we try to keep our tourist offer only on beaches, sun and sea. Under the form of harmonising our legislation with European Union legislation, these amendments to the law are going. This Household Activity Act shows an eclectic example of centralization, not only of money but also of authority, because it is really important that our Government deals with working hours of catering facilities. It is certain that cities and municipalities, under quotes, are not "capable" to make decisions that cafes will be working for up to how many hours. From Mark’s square there is still a better view of the coffee shop on the sea or in the river port, so that from Mark’s square it can still be made better. Another important thing is that in our opinion our own Constitution is being violated and the right to work. Why am I saying that? This Law says that those restaurant facilities that work during the day cannot work at night, so in such a way the whole shift is lifted, which means that a good portion of the employees will be out of work because there is no room for opening new cafes or new clubs in tourist resorts. We need to do everything possible to bring the existing into operation, to keep everyone working for 24 hours. Of course, we must take care of noise protection. So it's important that the objects are arranged and worked, not to bother anyone, not to close them. It seems to us that we want to be as much of a tourist country as possible, and it started two years ago with 00 proms, and it continued with the closure of poor old women who sold cheese on the tourist road and had no idea of a location permit. We're also getting the law ready not to work on Sundays. Well, according to all of this, unemployment could be said not to be a problem in the Republic of Croatia, but that the picture is quite different from the number of over 300 thousand unemployed, and we are all aware that the only reduction in unemployment is only happening during the season and therefore I appeal that we are not working against ourselves. Through this Law, even more rigorous penalties have to be passed to fill the state budget, and that is how we in the Primorje-Goran County and Istria County have witnessed that, for years in June, all the inspectors are shining on the sea and there are almost more of them than tourists. Because here we see in the law that the amount of fines for violations prescribed by law cannot respond to their purpose and it is necessary to increase them both as regards both the lower and the upper limits. Questions that are important for our tourism are not even touched by this law, which are issues of ZAMP, issues of paying TV subscription in empty hotel rooms.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67724	Well, gentlemen! Here you go, buddy!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67725	So, questions about paying TV subscriptions in empty hotel rooms or empty apartments. Foreign exchange law so that all shops and locals can receive foreign exchanges. These are issues and real problems just like our hotels that are not yet privatised, beach problems, tourist land problems, agricultural land problems and tourism functions. It's best if tourists get to the border, stay the money and come home. Then we wouldn't have trouble with the noise or anything. I hope that the Proposer will adopt observations until the second reading and that we will have a much better quality law in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67726	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67727	Your Honor, Mr. President, I am correcting the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague who said when in June the inspectors of the Adriatic have more than a tourist. Namely, the State Inspectorate has no more than 450 economic inspectors in charge of this, so this would be truly devastating for Croatian tourism. And I'm asking Markov to react here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67728	Dear representative Mirjana Brnadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67729	Thank you very much. A respected colleague said that local self-government was cut off and that there was no possibility of influence on working hours. However, you should have read that Article 8 sets out in paragraphs 2 and 3 that local self-government can extend working hours and may also shorten working hours. And there was still a lot of incorrect data and mixed pears and apples but time does not allow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67730	Thank you. For SDP's club, respected representative Zdenko Antešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67731	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! In front of us is the Household Activity Act. The catering activity is one of the most important activities in society, and therefore special attention should be paid to it. At the very beginning, the concept of catering activity is defined, and the entities that can carry out catering activities, facilities and workplaces, working hours, minimum working conditions, conditions, catering services for households and rural households, and supervision of the application of laws and criminal and protective measures. So it can be said that the proposed legal text wanted to fully look at this area. It is further speculated with the positive effects of the adoption of this law. Fifteen of them have been numbered from compliance with the acquis of the European Union to a reduction in the grey-black economy and an increase in revenues in the state budget, to a greater possibility of controlling the consumption of alcohol of minors, greater respect for legality and higher employment. If that were the case, I would, on my own behalf and on behalf of the SDP Club, unreservedly support the law without any debate. However, that is not the case, so I will make concrete remarks and doubts on behalf of the club, which are imposed by careful law-reading. First, Article 6 of the Law refers to the facilities in which the catering activity is carried out. Thus, the catering activity is carried out in a facility designed, arranged and equipped for the provision of catering services which may be in the building, further business space in which another activity, kiosk, container, etc. is carried out. And now I would like to highlight this, on a floating facility, a train car and a water facility where passenger transport is carried out and then a tent in... etc. which I don't find particularly important. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Further catering facilities are classified into groups of hotels, campsites, restaurants, bars, catering facilities, simple service facilities. Clubs are still being mentioned. The Croatian sea is a large number of ships carrying out catering activities, and I am quite inappropriate not to mention the fact in any word further in the law. This may be the idea of undermining the concept of the club, as stated in Article 7 of the Law, although I believe that in Croatia as a maritime country the catering activity on ships certainly deserves more attention. Secondly, Article 8 provides for the working hours of individual catering facilities which I consider to be very dubious and immersion in the competences of the local self-government unit. The relationship between the central government and the government to the units of local self-government illustrates and an absurd explanation of the reasons for the adoption of this article. Well, I'll read it. "Organising the working time of catering facilities to the decisions of representative bodies of local self-government units or their headships for individual catering facilities has led to imbalances of economic operators given the different approaches to tourism and frequent complaints of allowed working hours of certain types of facilities, especially those working at night." Now, look. Well, I guess it's clear that in Croatia they don't have all the places and they can't have the same access to tourism. So you don't think tourism should be equally referred to as Dubrovnik, Poreč, not to mention Rab, Rijeka, Sisak, Daruvar, Ravna Gora, Bednja or any other typical agricultural municipality. I am in the view that units of local self-government can look much earlier at the needs of working hours of catering facilities than the central authorities and fully respect their specificities. However, the law gives authority to representative bodies, i.e. city and municipal councils that they can first extend their working hours to restaurants and bars for up to two hours. Furthermore, that they can determine a different working time when maintaining public events. I can prescribe working hours, working hours for benches, stands, kiosks and other simple services facilities. Fourthly, they determine the so-called. zone of constant work for restaurants and bars outside the inhabited areas. Furthermore, they may prohibit the consumption of alcoholic beverages in catering facilities during a certain period during the day of so-called ‘during’. sober period. Furthermore, representative bodies determine the location of stands, kiosks, tents, wheelchairs and other simple devices. Then they prescribe their external forms. Will they be blue, green, yellow and so forth? Next, he can prescribe room for naturists. And in the future, they will likely be able to determine so-called handsome zones, which we have also met in the media. I believe that this will cause confusion on the ground and that simply all issues related to working hours of catering facilities should be left to local self-government units because they know best all the specificities of their areas, and effective controls should be carried out in action. Thirdly, in the process of establishing the conditions for carrying out catering activities, there is no mention of the condition that the facility in which the catering activity is carried out must be built under the Construction Act or that it must be authorised to use it. What it means in practice, and in practice it also exists that in an illegally built facility if it meets technical and sanitary conditions it can be authorised to work. We believe that such a solution is not good and that this issue must be fully cleared up by the second reading. Fourthly, household catering services reduce the number of rooms from 7 to 4 and also the number of accommodation units in camps from 10 to 7. It's an interesting explanation for this kind of approach, so I'll read it. (a) from the explanation: data indicate that about 45% of the accommodation facilities available to Croatian tourism is in the household of citizens, which is estimated by too high a percentage for the quality of the tourist offer that Croatia is seeking. Raising professionalism is necessary for further development of tourism as one of the main economic activities and drivers of the overall economic development of the Republic of Croatia. Also, such a way of providing services is more difficult to monitor by inspection services, and it is estimated that about 20% enters the gray or black zone, such as, as regards guest registration, payment of tax obligations, payment of the residence tax. And foreign citizens are black renting their holiday homes because the only legal way for them so far is for them to carry out their activity as caterers. Therefore, the legal reduction of the current restrictions on the number of rooms, beds, accommodation units for household residents also seems necessary for the subsequent direction of Croatian tourism. I have to admit, this argument doesn't make any sense to me. So on the one hand, we have a limited capacity of home work from 10 to 7 rooms, and on the other, full liberalisation of rentals, but in the direction that the parties fully equalise themselves with Croatian citizens and that as foreign citizens they can legally deal with renting their cottages and apartments in Croatia, and also without premonitioning a useful permit for their facilities that I used to talk about. I think that this issue needs to be clarified once again, or I stress that it is clear to everyone, so this means liberalising the rental of foreign citizens in Croatia to their apartments and houses. Let's just think of the island of Vir. We believe at the Club that this issue should also be considered again until the second reading. Fifth. In the section of supervision in Article 39, it is unclear how police officers will exercise supervision of the ban on the use of underage people with alcoholic beverages. Is that gonna be an alcohol test, is that gonna be a look? Is that going to be another way? Finally, it is completely inappropriate for the legal gain of the Republic of Croatia to close the catering facility by means of an oral solution on the spot. If it's not a lapus, then it needs to be changed because such a solution is completely inappropriate. And to conclude, the law itself has good intentions to regulate relations in the catering activity. However, there are many more open issues in the proposed text, which I hope will find better and more meaningful solutions by the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67732	Thank you. National Minority Representatives' Club. Dear representative Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67733	Dear President, the esteemed secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The National Minority Club supports the adoption of a new Law on Indicative Activity, for surely 10 amendments and additions have contributed to the fact that even the competent administrative and inspection authorities are no longer able to do so in its interpretation, and that the rare application is different from the county to the county. Often, one is allowed, the other banned, and so on, depending on the reaction of the inspectors themselves. We can also agree that catering activity is important in the tourist offer. The tourist offer certainly affects tourism as an important branch of economic development in the Republic of Croatia. It is also necessary to bring the Household Activity Act into line with the acquis of the European Union, which means to provide accommodation and nutrition services to all those who meet the conditions for this regardless of nationality. To combat the gray economy and illegally carry out activities in the provision of catering services. But didn't we go too far? Are we rich enough to ban the use of polyvalent homes? Houses of culture, local homes, minority homes for catering purposes in certain settlements that have nothing more than that home that built themselves, equipped. It serves cultural events, political gatherings, weddings, and lipsticks and everything that follows life in such an environment. There is then an organized diet, drink, often accommodation, but this law prohibits it. No matter what the equipment is. The question of the nearest catering facility for a wedding that can be far away and tens of kilometers away will not be imposed on our Slavonac, Prigorec and Zagorec. Especially at the time of the 0.0 promiscation Act but also because he wants to offer his tower, his roast, his brandy often guarded from the birth of a child to the wedding in the rented space if he can't in his home. There's talk of catering facilities that can be club types. They need to be defined by this law, not waiting for it to be determined by the minister by sublegal acts as well as the services that can be provided in them. In the case of catering services in the rural household, it is also good to prescribe the number of services up to the maximum level of accommodation, pensions or themselves, to define the minimum conditions for species in relation to the arrangements and equipment of the facility, etc. minimum conditions, but make sure that this is enforceable, can easily be controlled, that the procedure does not last for months, i.e. demand more consent once for the conditions, second time for the start of work but that the really invested funds can start returning as soon as possible. Since these are often complementary activities, especially when it comes to agro tourism in rural households, it must indeed be transparent in advertising, offers with the aim of meeting tourists' consumption but can also be controlled in order to really avoid the gray market. The inspections must work quickly, but discreetly. They must have the opportunity to enter any object suspected of dealing under allegations. Court approval must be the same without a lot of noise and it must be seen in our legislation. We open the question of providing food services as well as accommodation in areas whose owners are minorities in the occasion of minority events and generally during working from the cultural autonomy section. Minority associations often have facilities where there are no other catering facilities or they are too few types of cafes, restaurants, so providing services, accommodation and food for members of national minorities is necessary to resolve them in this way and let us not push them into illegal zones, but as well as mountaineering and hunting associations allow them to provide this service for their members and members of minority associations. In addition to culture, folklore, music, song, is being practiced by the national gastronomy of the people of which is a member of the national minority. This can't provide a single catering facility. Fellow Members and colleagues, representatives of the Club of National Minorities ask that this segment be regulated by this law within the framework of the catering activity indeed the same as it is solved for hunting associations, mountaineering alliances and their members and members in their business premises and other premises for the meaning of members of minorities and minority associations. In order to enable the maintenance of minority cultural events and manifestations without which cultural autonomy loses its meaning, while maintaining minority manifestations and a view outside its own space requires much more funding for which state budgets, nor the budgets of local self-government units have the resources. Until the second reading, we hope that the Proposer will find a quality solution to the business spaces and premises of national minorities, which is certainly a condition that minorities can vote for this law, but also to solve this little problem Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67734	Thank you. The club of HSP MPs, the respected representative of Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67735	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, Mr. Secretary of State and gentlemen of the Ministry of Tourism. It is good that the Croatian state wants to better regulate the catering activity and we welcome the intention to better regulate certain questionable provisions in the existing law. However, there remains a whole series of provisions in this proposal to be specified or completed. I'll just list some. As this first reading remains time to settle it in the final draft of the law, and if not, of course, then we will put our amendments on it. However, our club calls on the Ministry to maintain as best as possible ties with the House of Restaurants in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and to listen to their remarks on this bill, because these remarks in our court are not malicious, but are simply a reflection of the practice of implementing the existing law and can affect the quality of this law. Article 3 discusses who can do the catering work at all. Be careful, it is added here and it is good that these are catering educational institutions, as well as student and student homes with the rest. So that's still good. National, fairy and hostel alliances and mountaineering alliances, hunting associations and institutions carrying out theatre activities and public institutions managed by national parks were also introduced. But let's just say no fire departments were introduced or sports clubs were introduced. It would be good for those institutions to be included in this paragraph of Article 3(3) of the Law in order to also apply the provisions of this Act. So we really want to include all those who provide catering services in this law. Furthermore, the provision of this law does not apply in Article 5 to preparing and serving meals, drinks, etc. which legal and natural persons organise for the purposes of their employees and members in their business premises and premises. We believe that the members should delete it, because it leads to doubt. A member of the association may be any citizen, so it is not clear which one will then be different. And even more interesting is the finding, or provision in Article 6 which states that the catering activity can be carried out in an object designed for this purpose and now be careful, which can be said in the tent, on the bench, on the wheelchairs and similar devices. I'd like you to define the concept on the bench, because it's very broad and undefined. Is that a bench in the park or, say, what or on some rocks, like, etc. Then it's the normative question. Food and drink norms for a meal. Look, this doesn't need to be confirmed by the competent office in our court. It's a guest thing on its own. So, you're normative for a certain meal. He brings it on his own. It serves as a provision for his kitchen staff to know if they'll make the meal, and the State Inspectorate only serves it for control and we don't see what else it would have to be certified for in the competent office. So, of course, if the inspectorate comes into inspection and sees that he's normative one, and he's served the other, it's certainly punishable. But why would that normative have to be certified in the competent office if that's what the caterer is actually doing for himself? Article 18 is amended as follows: double registration of activities for night-working catering facilities, i.e. individual establishments from a group of bars. In this way, we fear that those who have worked in accordance with the solutions and in accordance with the law are being discriminated against. Those who have worked in accordance with the law must not be placed in the same rank as those who have worked and still work outside the law, so they think of night bars, and only because the law is not consistently implemented in certain local self-governments. We respect the intention of introducing the nightclubs in the night hours, we respect the intention and welcome the prevention of noise disturbances from bars that do not have satisfactory technical conditions for working at night. But I suggest that this proposal be complemented, because there are undoubtedly those who have invested considerable resources precisely on meeting technical requirements, so first of all, the change in the law makes it impossible for them to make planned profits and return funds. We propose that existing places with separate registration, therefore also as night bars, should be reviewed to meet the necessary technical conditions and modes of work, and if they do not interfere with the environment by their night work, they should be allowed to continue their business. So, first of all, really test noise and proper technical solutions. Furthermore, Articles 28 and 28 later discuss the provision of household services. In the case of rural households, therefore, we believe that at least 50% of the products offered would have to be indigenous, they must be the product of that household, because otherwise we are going to have a really strange situation in order to have double criteria. If it's a rural household, then there are some criteria, if it's a classic catering, then there are other criteria. Also, Article 32 did not define the concept that these are household members who help the citizen to provide catering services. And that should also be done in the final draft of the law. Then, in Article 33 as regards the provision of services, i.e. household service permits, we hold that this should not be linked exclusively to the ownership of the property, i.e. land, but also to co-ownership, i.e. with the right to use the property. The team is, of course, the biggest objections we've ever made are on the crime scene. So when you look at these penalties, some of them are truly appropriate, some are exaggerated, and some are truly mild. So, we think it's more important that the surveillance procedure imposes oral sentences on the closure of the facility for the first time committed infringements. And let's say for not keeping the prescribed hours. Look, it's a situation that happens regularly in the summer. You have a series of guests in there who don't make noise, who don't make a mess at the bar, which you don't have to drive out because they haven't finished eating yet. But the inspector comes in, it's past hours, and he's giving you a ticket to shut down the place. We think that in these situations it would be far more appropriate as a reminder of a fine for the first time, and if such cases are repeated then you can go to that highest sentence of closing down the place. The statement of oral solutions does not, in addition, comply with constitutional provisions on the guarantee of the right of appeal against individual legal acts. And like that, you need to wipe it off. What will a man complain about if it is an oral solution? Therefore, the full labour ban measure could apply to frequent, repeated, therefore infringements for up to 30 days or up to 60 days. We point out that if this provision were accepted, it means that it was proposed, that it could be easily abused and that it could lead to the survival of many catering facilities and of course all employees in them. At the same time, we note that infringements that are much more serious and dangerous are the health of employees or guests, the procedures which order the removal within a certain time limit, and only then ban the activity. So, if someone serves food that is on the verge of health care, they are given a removal within the time limit. Or if in the kitchen the condition is such that it threatens to fire, then it's a removal within the time limit. But if you break your hours, then it's a spot-on closure. So we hold that the criminal provisions here should indeed be brought into line with the seriousness of the offense. And then again in a way to first go to the sentence of one fine, and only then after a repeated violation of the closure of the facility. The terms of office are also more than a penalty for violations, and the collection of the fines in this law and the criminal penalties shall be subject to the penalties laid down by the Law on Infringements. We also think that it would be good for the deadline for the harmonisation of this law to be six months, not three months, so that entrepreneurs can adapt in time to new legal provisions. This law, of course, and everything here is only part of the problems our hosts face. I will remind the authority here of another problem which, in the previous session of the Parliament, has not been satisfactorily solved. It's a fee for ZAM, so it's for playing music in catering facilities. I would remind you that the Croatian Parliament discussed this on the HSP proposal in early 2002. That, unfortunately, that's when our proposal was rejected. That a half-legal proposal was adopted with half solutions at the end of 2003, which only partially adopted our demands that we then made on the proposal of the Chamber of Brethren and... the caterer therefore to carry out an arbitration on how much an individual caterer would be able to pay for the release of music in his own place, i.e. to apply the German model. Unfortunately, in the existing law, it was lagging behind and it would be good for the ministry to take more account of the problem as well. So it's not just about regulation of catering activities, it's about other elements that make it harder to work as a caterer, which is in the first row... We therefore support that the Household Act is made new in order to adapt better to market circumstances, but we believe that the ministry should indeed take more care of the comments made by the hosts themselves. [[You don't understand.]] Some of them I brought out here on behalf of our club in this brief presentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67736	Thank you. HNS MPs' club, respected representative Jaksa Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67737	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. You see how it greets me on this field, as they sing in their time of going out... When someone's an expert, an expert you know. And it would be good for those who wrote the law if they were experts in it. You know, I'm really an expert on this, but on the other side, consummate, consumer, and here a lot of things are regulated actually by the other side, so those who sell it, who do the catering, and when a man read it, let's say that without reading the law, so like when, here I'll read it to you. It says the consequences that will arise by passing laws. And now he says like this, the sequence of the above is expected... harmonising the law with the acquis of the European Union is very important to us. [[You don't understand.]] Easier application and understanding of the law. And that's what matters. Reduced black, gray economy and work on black. The increase in the state budget by increasing the tourism community's revenues due to better billing of residence tax. Well, I guess that's what we solved with that Paushal Act, not with this law, I didn't see too much of this law being solved. Protection of competition. Well, there's so much competition in this branch, I don't think I know who needs protection from competition here. Easier business of the caterer. I didn't really find it. Further development of tourism for young people. Well, that should make hostels, not here definitions of this legal one. A clear definition of the catering facility as an object in which catering services are provided. So please don't, and what else could be available there. As a rule, the equal arrangement of working hours of catering facilities in the area of the country by laying down rules... Now that's it. [[You don't understand.]] It is now, for example, in Jelsa on Hvar or in Hvar having the same conditions and working hours as in Ivan Zelina. Well, that's great, and I'm gonna stick around so I don't read this to you anymore. Working hours. So these laws centralise this problem and say that working hours in catering facilities will be determined by this law by category, with the possibility that local, therefore local self-government units will say that plus, minus two. So if this law is allowed until midnight, the local self-government that is a very conservative mayor or chief can cut it to 10 o'clock. And youth only comes out at 10 o'clock, and I certainly know today many who go is not until 10 o'clock you know. Let's say I'm one of those.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67738	In the morning?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67739	Tonight, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67740	And in the evening.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67741	In the evening, but if you eat easily, you know, if you eat an octopus salad or something, fish, it won't hurt you, don't worry. ... An octopus salad. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So I have to say it's something that's not good, I don't know which solution. It may be that the solution is to prescribe such laws from countries that have been established in tourism, which have large revenues in tourism, or those that were in the Mediterranean, of these continental ones. The other day I hear 28 billion euros from Austria from tourism. 28 billion. So I get dizzy in my head when I hear those numbers. Now, in us, we're going to make it clear that we're going to have very sharp criteria again that will be working time. In my time in the city's headship, I mean the city of Split, then I was complained about by those from Bačvica, with Bačvica complaining that they couldn't sleep because all the restaurants worked until midnight. And then I called them and I said, you know what... It's just that the prices of apartments in the Bačvica are going well. [[You don't understand.]] Sell these apartments and buy them at Zrnovnica. Either it's a different option, or it's another option to put the ramps at 10 o'clock on all entrances to the Bacica and there's no one coming in. They're different solutions. Now, what I want to tell you. Here's what I've said several times before as an example. 26, 27 years ago, I was in Palma de Majorca, which is twice the size of Split, and the whole city is in the function of tourism. At two o'clock a night, there's music on every peck, and in the morning at nine and a half you can't buy bread because nothing was opened before nine and a half. Now, are we going to retire clubs and settlements or are we going to have tourism? Because here he says in article 9, look at the saying, look what he says. This Regulation shall enter into force on No, well, I don't mind pensioners, but they can sleep at night. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yeah, yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I was going to say, here, look, he says, here he says, both groups and restaurants and bars that are located outside the populated areas. The settlements, therefore, can work from 0 to 24, but what is the criterion outside the populated areas. Is it maybe 10 meters from the first apartment or is it 100 meters or is it a thousand or is it 10,000 meters? ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But there isn't? What? Item six solved, right? But then it determines the representative body. So, Prime Minister Sanader determines the working time, and then the criteria of that 10, 100 meters or I don't know, the one that enforces the law determines the working time. And then this one, this distance from, as they say, determines local self-government. That's interesting. So, that, and why didn't you leave all the local self-government. Why didn't you leave that local self-government as it has so far determines working hours so you'll at least have a fight at the local level. This way you'll know who's to blame, this way you'll know who's to blame. It would be about working hours that are likely to break our heads because imagine now on Hvar, in the middle of the summer that no restaurant works at midnight. How is that possible? ... Of course. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And now I don't know how Carpe Diem's gonna work because this can't possibly work. He can't work at all because he's in a populated area. Yeah. Another question was about building, or using permits. If we went to implement this criterion in Croatia, then one half of the facilities for catering purposes would be closed. Because half of the catering facilities are in old city areas where you have no building permits or useful permits. And where the issue of stability is almost unproven. Almost unproven. So if we stick to those regulations that, even if we were to probably vote here, then we could automatically close half the facilities. That's about it. In addition to all this, we at the HNS will vote for first reading, so hopefully it'll be a little better in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67742	Thank you. Several MPs, however, dared to state incorrect allegations. Among them is the esteemed representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67743	Dear counterpart Marasovic mentioned pensioners' clubs in contaminating, I guess, part-time, which shows that counterpart Marasovic is not familiar with the activities that take place in retirement clubs. And that he obviously wasn't at their party where there's more liveliness at 2 a.m. than possible some time here in the Croatian Parliament. I recommend he attend one of those parties at the retirement club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67744	So, Jaksha, you should go there then. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67745	Dear Mr. President, I certainly appreciate this inspired exposure from practice, but I must admit that he made an important colleague, Marasovic, one mistake, that is, correcting it. He said Palma de Majorca is bigger than Split. It's not. It's not. There is no Split to Split in every way.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67746	And the esteemed representative Zdenko Antešić, the correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67747	Thank you very much. Representative Marasovic has been troubled by the issue of useful, i.e. building permits needed to obtain work permits, saying that there are none in the old town's cores, or building or using a permit. In fact, it is incorrect, this claim is incorrect because the old city cores were built before 1968, and we know for ourselves that the buildings that were built before 1968 did not require any permits in terms of building permits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67748	Thank you very much. For the club representative of the HSS, the respected representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67749	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I can't speak at such a scientific level as a colleague of Jaksha, but some little experience and learning was on the subject. So on behalf of the HSS Club, I'll try to justify the trust. You know, when it is said that the situation in Croatian hospitality is not the most brilliant, most would probably agree with it as a fact. But if it were said that this is not the reason, the main reason for the level of financial effects, or that this is not the reason for the small extra-pansion consumption that is always mentioned in us as some refund every year so that it can already be sung in the song. It is that the main reason for such a position of Croatian hospitality is the lack of speciality. Not having what's most important when you want to create a brand from something, when you want to create a name that sells is stronger than content itself. You know, there's a whole series of kitchens in the world today that make you go on a trip somewhere. There are a whole series of destinations, destinations that occur not because of the country you're coming to, but because of some other objectivity. When you come to Paris you have a few places where it makes it culinary specialities you come. The whole range of almost unattractive countries, including kitchen facilities, are in global proportions far ahead of Croatia, and Croatia has a far better perspective, the reality that it will be the one to mark this century of world tourism when it comes to catering, and important if not the most important part of catering is cooking, food, food. Therefore, to speak in substance about this Law, which you know how long, colleagues and colleagues, is waiting for? It's been a long time. This is one of the laws that almost hasn't changed. We transferred it from the former country, so we did a little bit of work in the decimals, but otherwise, the activity of hospitality and tourism is one of the activities that has not been legally solved at all. Namely, you have a whole series of segments that have appeared in Croatian tourism that do not fall under the Law on catering activities, neither tourist activities nor tourist activities. So life develops far faster than the legal framework. In fact, there is no legal framework and for this reason to say now, and that is one of the reasons why the Croatian government must always have the Ministry of Tourism. So that's one motive, that's one, it doesn't have to be one mathematical sequence of seeing that or not, it's just something you have to have. It's like coming to a party in Knin, then wearing a knin hat, and in Sibenik, it's a bottle cap, but it's a hot 8th month, but still everybody's got that hat on their head, because it represents something, it's a symbol. So, for five years, we've been waiting for this law, and it's a good thing we've welcomed it. The HSS Club welcomes the Household Act in the reading process and the HSS Club will support it in its first reading. We've changed about the current law about 24 articles, some meaning 64 24, let's say 30%. The part that we decided to change is good that we decided to change because this activity really needs different legal frameworks for its activities. There are two key facts in this bill. There is a liberalisation of the provision of catering services. This is the first fact that comes from nearly 5 articles. Namely, those entities that can provide catering services are now far wider, but we still need to expand them. For one example, health tourism in the Republic of Slovenia accounts for 24% of total tourism, and health tourism is now in the same expansion as nautical tourism was in 5.6 years ago. We haven't even defined it as a branch in activity yet. So the Health Tourism Act needs to be passed as soon as possible, but we need to get into those entities where catering services are provided to allow them to be health institutions, whether they are the type of specific centres, whether they are the type of certain departments in hospitals because they have to have that kind of character precisely because of the level of service. The places where these catering services can be provided are far wider so that you can now have club-type facilities which is also good. Of course, higher powers are given to the ministry, that the ministry solves certain doubts through sublegal acts, dilemmas, that it prescribes solutions of importance for development, that it determines sub-types etc. That approach is good and bad. It is bad because it can create legal uncertainty for those for whom it is brought through sublegal acts which are not under the authority of this Parliament. We must therefore, otherwise, install in which way sublaws are passed, and in order not to significantly challenge basic laws, and it often happens that the very basic laws under sublegal interventions have come into question. What's beneath us at the HSS Club is most doubtful and what should be considered, but not doubtful in the sense that we want to challenge that intensity is good. No, I don't. It's trying to find the right measure. We are indeed witnessing that the times of catering facilities in the Republic of Croatia as a result of the fact that it is completely liberal, i.e. representative bodies of the local self-government unit bring working hours in relation to and depending on the circumstances of the position they are in. Of course it's not the same working time for Baranja and Split, for islands, for big cities, everyone has their specifics and I think it's good. Deviation occurred when apparently the government estimated that some things should be put into a certain framework. Of course, this framework immediately causes a sense of reduction in the rights of those who have until then had full rights. We think that this can be arranged in a way that leaves local self-government a little more extended rights than it comes from this regulatory article here that says it's plus minus two hours. I think it can be because of the specificity itself because the intensity was next. Bars that work by day naturally by decision of local self-government have been given a deadline so that they can work at night, and then they are both daily and night objects. However, the minimum technical conditions must very clearly and prescribe what you must actually have if you want to work at night in terms of noise, in terms of place, in terms of all that it foresees. So the rough definition is these objects that work at night and these are objects that work during the day are little doubt about this systematic approach to the needs of tourists. You know, whether you will invest only in a facility that works exclusively at night, and perhaps that facility under certain conditions, under certain criteria will be an object that will work at night and day in the form of a double legal system, but an object, and the activity will take place on a daily basis, the other within the framework of the night job, and all provided that the minimum technical conditions provided for in this type of activity are met. It is also doubtful, again I say, is not a dubious intensity of the reduction in the number of beds and the reduction of the number of rooms for those households so-called. Homework as we used to call it for those people who just deal with just renting. In recent times, only renting the entire range of activities carried out within the framework of home work has been done. Why? Because it provides food services, drinks services, additional services, issue and create a small private hotel under the company of home service. Of course it's not good, it's not acceptable and it's good that the intensity goes to professionalize it. Well, it should be professionalized and for their own sake. Why? So they use the incentive to succeed, to use various credit lines, to be in the VAT system, because it suits them if they want to work. So, that's okay. But let us not again work on the other side of unnecessary illogicality. If someone has seven rooms instead of writing and has eight, nine rooms and only deals with renting, there is no other activity. Let us leave it at will whether it will stay within the paushals, meaning home work or open a craft, a company because it wants to improve business. Because what happens if they leave a proposal like this. He will simply have two rooms or one apartment on black, and will remain in the deck again, will not go to the turn because and should not force him to enter the craft if there is no upgrade he holds that requires legal personality either through the company or through the crafts. So let us consider this between the first and second readings. What is good and the board has launched such an initiative, all professional associations, all those who exist in the hospitality of the Croatian Association of Hotelers, from the Croatian restaurant association, from the Association of Hosts of the largest cities, from the Czechs that cover certain segments of the hospitality were all consulted, all were held at the committee meeting and talked to everyone. They made one proposal that they view the passing of a good law and agreed to try between the first and second readings precisely with them who are most interested in resolving doubts and dilemmas. And I think it actually has to be the only and the right path, just the ones that are most interested should make their contribution. But what I said at the beginning, the Government of the Republic of Croatia as the holder of this law must take care of the character, the general character of things. It must be kept in mind that Croatian hospitality simply needs to be repositioned, we need to put it on better quality foundations, we need to give it such impulses that it will become brand, we need to increase the efficiency of total hospitality and reduce administrative barriers. Because we can't stop excellence by bad organization of any administrative authority, local, state, anyone. This is, of course, inadmissible and therefore a huge issue arises as a problem and that is the use of permits. You know that 1.1.2007 is the zeroth day when everyone will have to have only on the basis of the applicable permits you will be able to have a work permit for any facility. I think Croatia, we have to admit, is not in a situation today, is not ready to say that 1.1.2007. we will be ready because we are not ready, because we cannot have it. But if we don't think on time about a certain moratorium or a certain different solution that the building permit meets at this point what should be useful then we will avoid that period of problems that will simply be loaded on the neck unnecessarily and then those who are excellent will have the same problems as those who work on black. Well, that's what I think they're warning both these associations and hotelers and all together, but I think we're all aware that we don't need it and that's why my appeal. I know it doesn't apply to the resolution ministry, so to speak, ours, that it's a question of another ministry, but I think there's a solution to that. Because, you know, if we were going here right now to raise a hand who has a useful license in this hall, it would be a little difficult to get a hand in the air because, especially in the environments that are scarce with the plans, with this regulation, it's very difficult to get to it and it's very difficult today, it's really hard today with the best will, the desire to get to a useful permit because it's not necessary for us and the procedure to stay the same, and we've asked to apply the highest standards. So I say one more time. In addition to these remarks that I believe are of quality, that professional associations have well placed them I think that between the first and second readings we have time to remove these things through remarks, that through a public debate that must be because we don't need to rush this law whether we're going to bring it in the ninth or tenth month, it doesn't matter. Its application goes from 1.12007 anyway, and the application of certain articles has been extended in four, three, five years anyway, so we have time. Let's make a quality law because it depends on it whether we achieve the reputation that Croatian hospitality should have and I think it must be achieved with the right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67750	Thank you. At 10.43, it was time to apply for an individual debate on this point. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67751	I'm correcting Mr. President's incorrect allegations that Mr. Markov's issue of working in catering facilities will be resolved at night if the municipalities and cities are given wider authority. This is incorrect because the problem is that many get categorization and do not meet the requirements. That's the biggest problem in this part. This is not solved by working hours, but is decided to implement the laws. And when you get that categorization, the inspector can't do anything about it because he doesn't have noise-rich test devices. There is the biggest problem for you, and that is why citizens are rebelling, and that is why it cannot be solved, but categorization must be precisely determined and prescribed and it must be possible to protect citizens from being exposed to noises, and there is the biggest problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67752	Thank you. Now we're going to an individual debate. Representative Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. She's gone. He's losing his word. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67753	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues! Perhaps just a few notes about this proposal for a law on catering activities that will go into two readings even though it has a P.Z.E. code. So, what's this about? I think the public should know about it so let them judge whether it's a good solution, whether it's a necessary solution, whether it's a solution we need, or simply a solution we have to accept. In public, this bill was presented by the Prime Minister himself, something from the resolution ministry, such as this bill, we finally introduce order and find one right measure between the needs of tourists to entertain but also citizens living in densely populated areas where individual tourist facilities are located. So, it's an old question that has always plagued the legislator but also how to find one right measure and how to please everyone. And indeed an ungrateful task and I think it's more or less good in this bill and it's done. A good part of the provisions normally because nothing begins or can begin especially with this Law and since we are a tourist country... So the good things are prescribed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Some of them are finished. And I personally have no major objections. But something that is kept secret from the public and I don't know why if good intentions are good intentions and if conscience is clean and what and why are they afraid of their own citizens? Why is there no real explanation of the applicant in respect of Article 33 which speaks of who will be entitled to the catering, catering or renting of rooms or apartments to a certain number of beds? Why is it hiding and why isn't it being told to the citizens that it will be possible for foreigners to do so? Why wasn't that explained to the citizens? Why are you afraid of citizens? Why is the promoter afraid that citizens will not accept it? In the introduction, the proposer also says that so far he has had problems with the fact that foreign citizens were black renting their holiday homes. And that the only legal way for them so far was for them to carry out this activity or to carry out this activity as caterers. However, no one prevents foreigners from being caterers, and this is how they do this part of the work. Now that our citizens are allowed not to have to open a craft for a small number of beds, which is quite acceptable and the reality is being traced because many of our citizens, especially in Dalmatia, saves them from hunger and it is only some guarantee that they will survive with small and minimal incomes either from retirement or from some activities or from small or irregular wages. And it's a good thing it's settled that way. But I'm asking a direct question here to the proposer. In what country can our non-reported citizen deal with any activity and then this? Thank you very much. I'm finishing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67754	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67755	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honored representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. It's really a colleague of Ingrid's to say that she stabbed her way into the right thing. She hooked up with the right thing. If this is added to Article 28 that speaks of citizen catering services, I stress this citizens in the household and the peasant economy. The concept of a citizen means a citizen. This is the only condition for opening this catering activity. But the notion of household means that someone is living in it. To live, to live. That it's his permanent place of residence. And, of course, residences. So there is no reason, and that is also the interest of the Republic of Croatia. And so you should protect yourself for at least these two types of catering activities. For at least these two types of catering activities. Of course, I do not advocate that hotels, hard facilities cannot be hosted by citizens outside the Republic of Croatia, therefore, and foreigners, but for these two categories it should be easy to determine only for citizens or local people living in these facilities. The point is, the diction is in the household. The diction is in the household. The diction is in the peasant household. So living, living and working is both. Even create that it could be sold in your own house. That's the point of it. I'm not a caterer, but that's an unequivocal logical and linguistic interpretation. And the condition to open is just to be a citizen. It's only a condition to open up is to be a citizen. So there's no reason for my assessment that the national interest which is not so declared here is not regulated in the way that it is allowed. That's allowed for that area. One more thing when I'm talking about this. The specifics seem to me to be Croatian hospitality and tourist offers can be preserved by this law if more criteria are established what is a household and what is a special peasant household? Especially the peasant household and what facilities can satisfy it? There is no such thing here, although the law is declared to be a alignment with the acquis of the European Union, and it is right here that national interests should be protected in this area. In this area. So we haven't minimum things prescribed that our specificity in catering will protect. When it comes to prescribing here, the proposer is talking about working time. I think fellow lawyers will understand that the term working time is a given term for 40 hours of working time in the Republic of Croatia. This is about the schedule of that working time or something. The beginning or completion of work in care facilities. So working hours is a notion, in a legal, legal standard, which means that 40 hours is a working time for a worker or a working time for objects, so it's said that it will work 40 hours, 50 hours, 60 hours or I don't know, and the schedule of that working time for both the worker and the objects is some other term that should be used here. And when it comes to the work of catering facilities, the daily schedule should then talk about the start and completion of work in these facilities. In Article 8, I have already said this on the Legislative Committee that something that is general is then allowed to change it. So Article 8 provides that the representative body determines the areas in which, in its area, municipalities, cities are determined in their area where they can be located, part of the city can be provided with catering services which are categorized here such as bars and restaurants. So it says 0 to 24 hours so the start of work is 0 over and over. And then it's said that it can change the headship. I have no idea what the legal act of the Headship will be if a general act for that area has already been adopted. Therefore, in preparation for the decision of the representative body, it was necessary to determine where such facilities could be. It is not for the whole of Croatia, nor for the whole country, but for the city. Therefore, why should we leave it to say that I will have an incorrect notion of a representative body's decision to discredit the headship but there are no conditions when it will be able to determine the headship. Is it noise, is it traffic, is it disturbing the neighbors or are those other reasons, or is it any kind of act that it is. Is that what you can make a complaint about, show a complaint to a coma? Whether it's an administrative act or not. So such an unregulated issue is a source of conflict, and could also be the source of bad pictures of the Croatian catering offer, a tourist offer. Because during the season, it is possible to remember that headship should be banned from working on such an object that is, for example, very attractive or very familiar. I don't know where to set the example now, either, but that's possible. This makes it possible. When it comes to transitional and final provisions, recategorisation is foreseen every three years. Therefore, the ministry is sending a field inspection to determine whether the facilities that received the permit and categorisation have maintained the level they had during the acquisition of that categorisation. But now that this law is passed, it is foreseen that valid solutions and valid categorisation are not valid. And it's kind of logical and it's a deadline, a respiro deadline until the objects have to comply with this proposed law. But there's something else. Re-applying to the ministry with the responsibility to regulate it in the administrative procedure requires both costs and administrative costs and the outcome of many consents, and the facility is already working on a valid solution. It would be appropriate for the ex sopho to go to the facility and it is said that it is time for it to be harmonised for a year, two years or more and that the inspection and the ministry under official duty will determine that it meets the requirements under this law. So, not that he runs the procedure for determining, new categorization, but that the ministry does so by its own initiative ex sofo. It is also the ministry's task for those facilities that are already working, which have a valid license. So it's my discussion, the discussion of the goal of making it possible to bring existing objects into line with this law as soon as possible, and in this way we do not question the continuity of work for certain objects, and you all know it is very important that they have continuity and quality, but also continuity of work. Therefore, I do not agree that the ex-legation shall be closed if it does not apply to the facility and shall invalidate the valid authorisation. It doesn't actually cancel out, it cancels out that moment. All in all, of course, I advocate the adoption of the Law on Hosting Activity, but that there is more concern, and it is about harmonising this act with the standards of the European Union that protects and promotes the specificity of Croatian tourism, as well as catering offers, and this can be very well seen in the household and as it is called in the rural household which, in my opinion, can be the specifics of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67756	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Krono Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67757	In this part, he pointed out because it was precisely specified in Article 38, which means peasant households, so in the sense of this law, a peasant holding or a family holding is listed in the register of a farmer of holdings in accordance with the regulations of the competent Ministry of Agriculture which provides catering services in accordance with the provisions of this law. So it's exactly what needs to be done and how to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67758	Replica. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67759	Dear Mr. President, I am pleased that Mr. Leco has just opened this issue of our inconsistency and where this has brought us all because we were not able to protect national interests in due time, primarily related to real estate and all other things that are now coming to full attention and especially in this example of Mr. Lek talking about peasant households. This has been a major problem in practice before, as everything and everything under cover of peasant households has been sold. And now we're taking an example, since not a good colleague, let's take an example of the Chinese, Lapland or the Hungarian who came to visit the peasant household. It can also be entered in paragraph 2 of point 5. It says service, taste of domestic products from its own production. So, his own production will be from China, because he has facilities in China, he's going to be from Hungary, he's going to be from Lapland, and then what kind of peasant household is that? What kind of peasant household is this? Are you even aware of what you're talking about and how incorrectly you've written the regulations? So it must be a Croatian peasant household, Croatian products, not household products, because Chinese is a product from China, Lapland from Lapland, right? Hungary from Hungary. So read it! I'm just simulating the provisions and saying that our indiscipline, inconsistency and then we say we're protecting the Croatian peasants. How do we protect him when we give the Hungarian peasant, the Hungarian Chinese, or this Russian peasant, to sell his products to us at his catering facility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67760	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67761	An old saying that good intentions can lead to hell. I didn't want to. Namely, my intensity was to be specified, so no agricultural activity, no peasant household, no land ownership unless the registered address could be. Yeah, yeah, I know. I know it must be in the register, but agriculture in Croatia can also be done by one who is not resident in the country. And as for my colleague Kovacevic, it was not my intention not to sell foreign products, it was my intention to protect the domestics.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67762	Second replica, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67763	Thank you very much. Well, dear colleague Leko, I said, I've opened up a good topic, but I'm not going to discuss this in my replica the way it was discussed here, but I would say that I personally think that we should, and that we have a foothold in the legislation of some European countries to regulate this sector regarding rural economies, especially to link it most directly with the Agriculture Act. Because what's going to happen to us here, what problems have we had so far? If we link Article 38(3) where we link it to Article 29 where certain conditions must be met for the provision of household catering services, then what happens to us will happen, and that is the same. That peasant households must meet certain conditions that must be met by the hosts, and that is impossible. We need to have specific conditions, they, I always agree must be strictly prescribed, we need to know what it is. And in that part, I would only suggest that not only the Minister of the Sea, the Regulations, the Minister of the Sea, the Tourism, etc.. but to include the Minister of Agriculture. I think they're like, for example. as is the case in Slovenia where it is complete in the Ministry of Agriculture very well solved, the specific conditions are, the conditions relating to hospitality and the caterers cannot be respected, because it is quite different. But I'm sure I have it under control. And I am convinced that this segment will certainly contribute to total Croatian tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67764	Replication response, distinguished representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67765	Allow me, Mr. President, to thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67766	This is very important support in this regard. Dear Representative Jagoda Martic. Here you go. She's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67767	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. And I agree with all those who have already found that a unique attempt should be made to solve problems, that is, all related to the catering activity. However, since the first reading is I will make a few personal remarks that may make sense after all. Speaking of working hours of catering facilities, it seems to me that praise can be a valuable attempt to make something unique in the state. But we must and constantly point out that the Croatian state is the region, that each end has its own specialities. And trying to uniform the state, I think it just doesn't make sense. We must say that we still have differences in the way of life and in everything else related to the south, meaning the coast and coast, bound to the northern part of the Republic of Croatia. It is absolutely certain to live differently, the dynamics of life in large cities and smaller settlements in Croatia are different. Trying to edit such a working time uniquely simply seems to me that it will not work. Perhaps it would be good for another reading to think about areas or regions to resolve that working time, how to resolve working hours in large cities, and in small areas. Because there's simply no need for long hours as predicted here. It is likely that a part of the caterer will ask his representative bodies to often and reduce their working hours. We also have to take the seasonal character for work hours. Surely there is no need in all coastal settlements to prescribe the time of work uniquely from then until then, even though we have the possibility of a reduction. There may even be needs or there will be wishes especially on islands in smaller environments that certain catering facilities do not work in certain days. And that there are specialities about it... It seems to me that in this way and in the small door maybe the government is trying to introduce it uniquely, because it will then be a precedent and we will arrange it to have a uniquely arranged working time for trade, which has already been unsuccessfully trying for some time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is therefore clear that a representative body may prohibit the use of alcoholic beverages to catering facilities during a specific period of time. It's obvious here that in the government he doesn't know what his tail is doing. We had a discussion the other day about preventing violence at sports facilities, and there, in my first reading, I suggested that the English, or British model prohibit alcohol being poured into objects or within a circle or certain objects around our stadiums. That's when the government's argument was given that there was simply no one to control it. So come on, please. Now with this proposal for an article, that is, the text of the law, I am asking the question, Mr. Secretary of State, and who will now be in control. Turns out, in the Household Activity Act, a representative body can impose it, so someone will control it, and where it's of interest to prevent violence, there's no one there. It would be interesting to hear then and explain once more to Minister Kirina today during the vote on the law which are arguments that cannot be done. After all, who's going to control, who needs to control drinking on one side around the facilities around the stadium, it's the police. And here, I'm sure you'd need a master's inspection. I would ask for an additional explanation related to Article 13 where it is said that the premises, or around catering facilities must not be less than 100 meters away, meaning certain facilities are catering that are in containers etc. I'm curious about the situation with the existing facilities that exist. What's going to happen? Will it now be necessary to simply ban the work of such objects, to coordinate? Because I just don't see why it's happening. In article 28, which spoke to the catering services of household citizens, all that has been said so far, I would still have to ask and I must ask. If paragraph 2 states that camping means that the owner has up to 7 accommodation units for 25 guests at the same time. So it seems to me if it is 7 accommodation units, the average Croatian family usually has 4 members it should be 28 members. Because this is how it turns out if it comes, even from abroad, guests come to us after all. If one family comes with four members, 7*4 is still 28, it seems a little unnatural, and I'd love to. No, but this says exactly 25 at the same time. So we still have some problems. It's about camping. I would ask for clarification in Article 27 concerning camping and 48, which also has financial and criminal measures related to explaining to me what happens, for example, to scouts who necessarily do not camp only in camps. They camp in the woods and everywhere. It may cause them to be found and punished. I think there's still something that needs to be changed and something done because if someone keeps strict law, and we should all stick to it, it'll come to... scouts or scout squads to be punished for that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As regards Article 38, the same thing is in paragraph 2 where it is said that in the rural household accommodation services... the apartment up to a maximum of 10 persons, i.e. for 20 guests at the same time because the guest is also treated as a young child, for example under 11 or 12 years who can be with parents, and we know that it is both in hotels and in accommodation units so that they are not charged or paid 50%, so that the caterer, i.e. the peasant household, can be punished for having children with parents because it will significantly increase the number. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's say each of these 10 rooms has one child with their parents, so there will be 10, 30 persons at the same time, it is subject to criminal sanctions. In addition, when it is said that for preparing and serving warm and cold dishes and drinks and drinks from mainly own production for up to 50 guests in the area of the Varazdin County, we also have rural households that have facilities that are not yet craftsmen, but are peasant households that can serve and serve more than 50 hikers. So they're automatically in violation or being forced to become craftsmen, which is a whole other kind of business than being a peasant household. It seems that the intensity has as many craftsmen as possible, and it seems to me that if we want to develop peasant households and generally peasants as one type of activity and farmers that we should think about it until another reading and give perhaps more accurate interpretations. As regards Article 30(3), supervision of the prohibition of service, i.e. the authorisation of alcohol consumption to persons under the age of 18, shall also be carried out by police officers. I'm not a lawyer, but I'd like to be given a precise interpretation of who in this country has the right to legitimize citizens. It seems to me that inspectors don't exactly have economics and everything else, that it's the only thing the police have. So here's one thing, or we're gonna have to change some other laws. So I personally advocate that this law be passed, explained until the second reading and about these things that I pointed out, but I appeal once again about working time. We make sure that Croatia often boasts of it is not unique either in terms of customs, nor in terms of lifestyle between the north and the south, the coast, large and small towns there are differences, and let us not bring local self-government into the possibility of tailoring by grandmother and uncles, but let us let the majority of the working time do as well as local self-government so far because it seems to me much better know the customs and needs of our citizens than we know here at the High House as well as the representatives of the ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67768	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67769	Your Honor, Mr. President. Well, a well-respected colleague has made a lot of problems with these provisions, which is fine with drinking particularly to minors, but it is interesting that no one has mentioned about these problems and minors what has happened in one week these days is that there are also 17 cafes in the City of Zagreb where cocaine is sniffing and no one has denied whether it is true or not and what the relevant authorities have done, what the police have done, what the State Attorney's Office has done. So it becomes normal in this Croatia to say in the weekly that these are the cafes in the City of Zagreb where cocaine is sniffed, and we have the law here to solve the problem of minors that they will not be able to drink alcoholic beverages, and no one is involved in this work. Who's gonna handle it? Why are the authorities silent? What's the Home Office doing? What's the State's Attorney's Office doing? Where do we live? And then we have our colleague's case that exposes the drug dealer, the drug dealer, and then they threaten her. What country do we live in today? What do we do here in the Croatian Parliament? Shall we call the responsible? What's the police doing? What's the state's attorney's office doing? Are they paid to glare, to keep quiet about these situations that are happening? If there were 17 cafes out there somewhere else in some normal country, where cocaine is sniffing, and everyone would jump on their feet right now and take appropriate measures, and we're keeping our mouth shut about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67770	Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja. Here you go. Did you?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67771	Your Honor, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67772	Excuse me, excuse me. There's a replica. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of the Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67773	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't think there's a fight between us. The fact is, unfortunately, often the rule of law doesn't respond to us. I have to say that the police are probably and I have no doubt doing their job, but usually stuck in one part of the judiciary, but it would be interesting to hear and we have a secretary of state here, we will probably have a report and a state inspector as much as the Republic of Croatia has been reported to the owner of the locals that they were pouring alcohol to minors and now the ban is in place, but the data are devastating. It was unlikely that no one or in very small numbers answered the same as at sports facilities during the game, although the law forbids everyone to watch, nothing happens to anyone. That's what we have a desire to become a legal state, but we're still coughing for it. Let us hope that it is not a problem for us as legislators, the problem is with those who exercise supervision and who eventually punish. It's the same thing with the noise in the catering facilities, that's all I'm saying. How many slaloms are made here especially in catering facilities located in buildings, residential buildings. It is all often known that the authorities of the facility know before the inspection comes that either reduces working time or reduces noise, the second day let's start all over again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67774	Hold the water until the masters leave. Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67775	Mr. President, Secretary of State with his associates. It is precisely this Proposal for a Law on Attending Activity that is useful for reasons, because when the amendments and additions were already 10th, and two consolidated texts are orderly for nomotechnical reasons to propose the law in one whole. It is precisely this Law which respects the specificities of Croatian tourism that give important provisions to be applied as indicative for the whole country, respects and in a further modern way gives freedom to the representative bodies of local and regional self-government to edit what is of their meaning. I will focus on what the representatives and associations and Czechs already have and in their remarks pointed out, but also what the Proposer in a clear way explained, and therefore the result of this proposal is useful in first reading, to see some more shades that can be added and to make that we have a modern Law on catering activity that follows this time and will certainly direct the development of Croatian tourism. Article 3 also suggested whether special hospitals, i.e. hospitals that meet the conditions for performing health tourism, could they also not be mentioned? We have an excellent hospital, a special hospital for petrol rehabilitation in Makarska that has its own tourist facilities and just the promoters of this Law have made it clear and I agree with that, what is intended for tourism, it is tourism, what is a spa should be a spa. Every tourism is also a health and the concept of health tourism, and I don't think we have to use it at all anymore because only by disseminating one activity do we create legal certainty for those who do so and for those who use such services. It is Article 8 that states where they differed, which is an object that can be exclusively for nightlife and work and one that can be for daily life and work. Today, too, it is in force that many have become bars only overnight, and no technical assumptions have fulfilled neither in terms of noise nor isolation. The terraces only built none, not just neighbors, but the whole place couldn't sleep because of such bad legal provisions so far. And it is very precise in Article 8 that it is limited only to read them. When we say, working hours from 0 to 24, and other catering facilities can work and are listed, of course, restaurants and bars from 6 to 24 hours and groups of bars that meet working conditions at night according to special regulations only in closed areas from 21 to 6 in the morning. So it's in closed spaces that will pass technical checks, not that because of a badly built bar you can't sleep, and they can't have fun inside or cool. Of course, there are also groups of restaurants and bars located outside the populated areas of the settlement from 0 to 24 hours, and there is the possibility of a representative body of the unit of local self-government because what in its spatial plan needs to predict where there will be something called a bar or another catering facility that will be able to operate from 0 to 24 hours. Therefore, this 8th article, in particular, defines it in paragraph 6, the representative body determines the location of the area of the settlement, precisely in the spatial plan. An excellent provision just needs to be read in full. And there is freedom for the representative body, in these parts, the most important. They should not give opportunities because so far they had and were very unhappy about it, they would argue not only in the representative body but in all the places that have tradition and pretentious to remain tourist destinations for future time. What remains to be given to the representative body to comply with its specificities is found in Article 13 which can be the dining facilities in the kiosk, container to provide additional catering offers during the summer, or season. Of course, what needs to be pointed out is the precise simplification of the procedure for obtaining certain corrections and very easy and simple. The protection is also clearly defined in Article 28 for citizens who, through long-term service provision, guarantee and further develop. Discuss what may be and what services can be provided in the room, apartment and holiday home, how many rooms, how many. This limit is excellent only provided that the inspector's supervision is complete and efficient. And here I propose maximum power, political will, but the money that just passed laws can be applied as they are imagined. 'Cause otherwise, we're going to make sure those who rent black, who don't pay taxes, who don't pay extras, but who offer bad services to their guests. Also in Article 33, the notion of citizens, not citizens, should clearly point out what we wanted to resolve with this Law by harmonising with the European acquis. Foreigners may also do so under the conditions laid down by law. A precise and clear and unequivocal article 38 is made, which respects the maximum specificities of each area, both tourism and economic, or agricultural. In accordance with Article 38(2), point (b) of Article 38(2), the service, the taste of must, wine, fruit wine, other wine and fruit wine products, strong alcoholic and alcoholic beverages and domestic cuts from their own production in an orderly part of a residential or economic facility in an indoor covered or open space for a maximum of 50 guests, hikers at the same time. It should all be entered in the register of agricultural holdings in accordance with the regulations of the competent ministry. The special provision, intended for tourists, is that of a specific, very numerous population that has been on the island of Hvar for more than 100 years and has islands designed for their sunbathing and swimming, but has not been provided for so clearly and under the conditions of those locals and catering facilities. Because as you can see, every time a report on tourism, about good indicators is always drawn by some handsome person with nothing on it, so that we finally have protected those naturists, to get a good rest and charge the batteries for next year. Administrative oversight should be ruthless. No mercy. And that is what needs to be pointed out and it is a good provision that the oral solution on the site can be said and prohibited from providing catering services and, within 5 days, to bring a written solution. If he can't close right now. It'll be summer, he won't close the place down, so we're not good or efficient. And that's good and it should stay despite some who have put some other provisions, criminal provisions, maximum good. We need them, we need to destroy everyone who thinks and who spoils this law because tourism is a great opportunity for us, a great desire where world standards are and whatever... to the European Union, we need to do this for ourselves. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Transitional final provisions, deadlines of 5 years, 2 years, 6 months, 3 months. Anyone can be well prepared, and those who have been caterers and engaged in this activity can do so at the same time. Those who wish to do so should study it well and have all the neat location, construction, and use permits. Whoever doesn't have it can't deal with such an important catering branch, because if we break down some of the illegally built buildings here, we can't even give a small or theoretical chance that someone is engaged in catering without regular location, building permits not only for the sake of employers but also for us as users who want not only to eat well and drink but also to feel comfortable and safe in such a place. Of course, the Proposer will take note of the useful remarks in this debate and should not wait, because it is very clear that we all know in hospitality how much, and others know about their activities, so let the support of this law and the promoters just continue, but I note the administrative oversight inspectors if they do not work for us with crazy all the effort and debate over this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67776	Replica, the esteemed representative of Walter Poropat, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67777	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Peronja said among other things that some objects do not have technical conditions regarding noise. I fully agree with you, my colleague Peronja, but I think there is something else to point out, and with the noise, there is no solution to vibrations. We are witnessing that on the ground floor of residential buildings there are cafes, some of which have a noise permit but are not designed and built to protect against vibrations that are transmitted by resonance to glass, without speaking to some other static parts of the building where they are located. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67778	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of the Crown of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67779	It is precisely the reason why it is nomotechnically well arranged for the minister to regulate with his rules, and I believe that he will arrange even more precisely and better both vibrations and anything that harms the neighbor. Because if it hurts the neighbor, the neighbor will yell, we won't be able to drink a drink in peace and the owner won't be able to charge for it. Give maximum time to do so in the interest of our own, not just Europe and the world.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67780	Another replica, the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67781	Your Honor, Mr. President, as well as my colleague, I will give further examples where the law has not given authority to the inspectors and where the inspectors are powerless. First, this is a good example of errors in categorization, or even corruption of categorization of catering facilities, and there is no inspector. She has a categorization that can work as a night bar, has nothing to measure. If you order someone on the side, then you know who can measure that part, at the time make sure that the situation does not happen. Other worse examples, for example, of catering facilities that work in areas that are, for example, in the lease of the City of Zagreb. The inspector comes in, finds the actual state or work on black or has no minimum technical conditions, he brings a measure to the place where the facility is closed, but on the same day the facility is subletted and in two days he opens his wife from whom he is imprisoned and everything starts over again. Close your wife, she moves on to her husband and the inspector is powerless. I have even more of these situations for you, where laws are unsettled in these situations, and then there must be a court decision waiting for them to be thrown out of that space. This is an example of the City of Zagreb, which muddles with these places and in these ways things happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67782	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of the Crown of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67783	That is precisely why the reasons why inspectors are given broad opportunities are listed more and more precisely. He's locked up his wife, and he's going to lock up his husband, and that should be at their best. But the inspector should have powers and technical assumptions, because for a fool our efforts and debates, we make good laws, the promoters are struggling, and we don't do it especially in the catering activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67784	Honorable representative Irena Ahel. She's gone, she's losing her word. Dear Representative Rade Ivas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67785	Dear President, State Secretary and Associates, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a law on catering activity that the government has referred to in the parliamentary procedure. I can immediately say that it is good that the Government has decided to conduct the debate on this law in two readings and I believe that during the debate it will be constructive proposals that will probably contribute to improving the text of the law itself, because we are certainly all interested in a good law on catering activity, because catering activity is a very important activity in the overall tourist offer of the Republic of Croatia. With this bill, the legislator says he wishes to bring it into line with the law, bring it into line with the legal gains of the European Union, facilitate the application of the law itself, reduce the grey economy, increase the revenues of both the state budget and the revenues of tourist communities, clearly define catering facilities as facilities in which catering services are provided, prescribe and equal working time to all catering facilities, disable the dual activity of catering facilities, etc. The non-compliance of the law with the legal acquis of the European Union concerns the freedom to provide services to citizens in households. Thus far, the law did not allow foreigners to deal with renting rooms even though they were property owners, which means that they were engaged in renting these rooms without being in a residence tax system, income tax and even inspectors could not control it, so it is a good thing that this law prescribes equal terms for renting domestic and foreign nationals. This bill will make a lot of changes to the way many catering facilities work so far, especially with regard to working hours, double registrations, etc. Thus, according to law, all restaurants and bars in Croatia will be able to work from 6 o'clock to midnight, and night bars from 21 o'clock to 6 o'clock in the morning. This means that the working hours of the caterer will be determined in future by a single law and will no longer be prescribed by the local self-government unit. This should introduce more order in the business of catering facilities, in particular with regard to the fact that the current possibility of military facilities has enabled the abuse of allowed working hours and thus the night rest has been re-methyled. According to the bill, local self-government would now have the opportunity to extend its working hours by two hours to bars and restaurants and in cities where a representative body makes such a decision, cafes and restaurants will now be able to work up to two hours a night and local self-government under official duty according to the proposal will also be able to decide on shorter working hours or closing cafes and restaurants before midnight or night bars six hours ago. It is also prescribed that if the caterers work longer than allowed working hours, inspectors will be able to close their controls on the spot and facilities for 30 days. This measure has caused a lot of objections mainly from the caterers who consider this to be a restrictive measure. Perhaps the promoter here might consider saying that if the caterer finds himself in the first offence to punish himself with fines and possibly the second and higher offense to ban measures. According to this proposal, all restaurants and bars outside the inhabited areas will also be able to work nonstop, with the representative body authorised to determine the locations of these areas. Perhaps here the law should provide for certain criteria for these representative bodies to determine and whether it is noise, whether it is a distance from the inhabited objects, I think it would be good to prescribe it. Therefore, this proposal will allow for longer working hours in cities, cafes and restaurants than before, but what is important will be banned from double registration, according to which about 500 cafes in Croatia were registered at the same time and as a night bar, so they used this opportunity to work all day and all night. In order to disable this proposal, it is prescribed that each catering facility will have to clearly define its function and will no longer be able to exist so-called. double objects. Surely this has caused certain reactions, and many caterers predict that this measure will lead to virtually shutting down nightlife because a small number of caterers will be able to register their bar as nighttime because it simply won’t be worth it. Namely, night bars can perform their activities exclusively in indoor areas, they will have to meet the conditions of noise protection and simply will not allow it to cover all costs. Perhaps here, as the esteemed representative Tadic said, he would try to introduce the possibility that all those who have worked properly and so far, who have not been made any objections, or that an examination would be carried out whether the facilities satisfy the technical conditions and modes of work, although they have so far failed to disrupt the environment or noise, to allow them to continue working on the same conditions. The new bill also sanctions the current consumption of alcoholic beverages among minors in catering facilities. In fact, although it has been prohibited to sell alcoholic beverages to minors in practice so far, for example, the adult buys wine and the minors simply consume it. It is good that this legal proposal also prohibits this possibility, so it is also prohibited to sell and consume and it is also good for police officers to monitor it because they have the right to request their personal data. Maybe it's important here, it's not prescribed how these checks will be done. Article 28 refers to the provision of household services. According to the current law, citizens can rent rooms, apartments or holiday homes that are the owners. The data suggest that almost 40% of the accommodation facilities available to Croatian tourism in citizens' households, which is estimated by the profession by way of an excessive percentage for quality tourist offer in the Republic of Croatia. For these reasons, and also because of the fact that such a way of providing services makes it difficult for inspection services to work, it is estimated that almost 20% of these enter the so-called so-called. The black zone regarding guest registration, payment of the tax liability and payment of tax tax is justified to reduce or limit the number of rooms, beds and apartments for citizens in the household. Therefore, this proposal suggests that persons who are additionally engaged in renting rooms will no longer be able to rent ten more than seven or not more than fourteen beds, and all those who want to rent more rooms or apartments will have to open the crafts and good news that they have left that deadline for five years where they can adapt. However, since I come from a region where a large number of people are engaged in renting rooms, where they have this activity are engaged in both older and family older age, it might be to think about whether two categories might be introduced here so that those who are exclusively engaged in renting rooms without providing any other catering services leave these restrictions that were in the old law and for all of these others who, with the provision of services, have to open up the trade and provide other catering services such as pensions and nutrition, to apply this criterion to them and that they must open the crafts. Here, a few of my thoughts. I believe that the bill is good, that it will be improved during this debate and that the law should be passed as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67786	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67787	Mr. President, here I am correcting the same inaccuracies that our colleague Ivas made. Namely, counterpart Ivas claims that there were foreigners who rented their cottages, their houses were not made up of VAT or were able to do so so far, so the inspections could not control their work. It's like someone in their house has a gun factory but they didn't register it and then the inspection can't get into a house like that and control it. It's something that's very dangerous and otherwise common, it's true that they don't do it, but they can do it our way, according to our laws under our legal system. So everything that's illegal is done because he didn't report it, and that's why it needs to be controlled and done. In this way we could suppress many illegal activities and much, much more dangerous than renting rooms.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67788	... Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67789	Mr. President, gentlemen of the State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's just a few more words. The need to pass laws is not questionable at all. That area should be regulated. We really need to insist on everything and regular in this area because otherwise we're going to come across a whole series of anomalies. So looking here one of the needs is to eliminate the gray economy. The example of paying taxes in municipalities, I had a real chance to follow and watch, taxes from the catering activity of the 3% was really more ridiculous than serious because of some cafes getting 30 to 50 kuna a month, so when we went to count how much traffic it turned out that we could actually barely pay some employees to work 10 hours a month there. They are also openly boasting that they have double cash registers and so on. Then they don't, that they're getting liquor in private. You can see that. So that's where it takes control because there's no tax without control, and in fact we're all looking at the budget. He needs it safe. There is therefore also a need to be monitored because there is a lot of unregistered catering activity in particular in tourist areas. It certainly needs to be stimulated and encouraged to develop hospitality in rural households, but as I recall there were some absurd situations that actually such households were allowed to sell only their products. So actually if the guest didn't know he wanted something else to eat or the rest, it was actually a violation. The same goes for taverns. I believe the taverns will also attract more tourists than classic hotels. I support that the catering facility must only have one name. So it must be defined because otherwise called, the same name hides significantly different tourist services. I'm sure there's gonna be a problem with the applicable permits. Let us remember that in 1991 a decision was made that all, that illegal buildings, illegal buildings could be connected to municipal infrastructure and since then, the emergence of building such buildings but also not only catering but any economic facilities could have been authorised to operate in illegally built buildings. And then we're surprised that this is happening on Vira not only with buildings but also with catering facilities. Especially problematic are nightclubs. Known for this turbo folk and the like. I don't know how to eradicate it. We see from the "Black Chronicle" that a young man comes out significantly younger than 18 years old and rightly controlled, it is a very good proposal to introduce police control, because inspectors certainly cannot control it a little bit as that youth is being poured alcohol. Because so far it's been simple. They find someone who's a year, two older, and he orders them a drink and it goes. However, this really needs to be controlled so that young people get used to drinking in such clubs, but we need to think about it when we watch commercials, beer ads are very interesting and hot and cute and familiar faces. And when you walk around town you can find high school kids somewhere from 14, 15 years old not only boys, but girls who have beer in their hand and a couple more cans on the side and it turns out it's all legal and fine. So we really need to think about it. Now, as far as working time is concerned, I think it's perfectly okay that you actually suggested in this, this volume, to this extent, that I know from practice. Most catering facilities will not even be as open as the proposal is, and this option of plus 2 hours will likely be used during the season. In winter, it will close very early not only in tourist areas but also in continental areas. But what we're talking about, here on the Committee, is definitely here, wherever the representative body wrote, it's supposed to be the headmastership. Because especially if you're giving someone permission to get married. It comes to you a week earlier, here in this facility it would be, I don't know the wedding, we can't call a representative body which is complicated but a headship and later if the law passes, I don't know the mayor, the mayor can make that decision. So the headship still, I don't know, can make such decisions quickly as the councils still meet far, far more rarely. Now, how to reconcile tourism and the population. We witness every year that the inhabitants are rebelling strongly. There you should take a look at the side of the experience. We know tourists come from the beach late, have dinner late. They come out very late and then suddenly they come in front of the closed door of the catering facilities. If the residents are already on the terrace somewhere, the neighbors are rebelling, and on the other side of the season lasts two to three months and live all year long. Well, it would be good to have a little tolerance because there'll be a lot more money on this one. And in the end, here's just a few words. Without criminal provisions, there will certainly be no order, and I think that punishments are appropriate for violations because only warning leads to nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67790	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Next up is Representative Vlado Jelkovac. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67791	Dear Madam Vice President and Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here are also a few words in this bill that I think is good until the second reading that there will be opportunities and times to respect some of the elements of the debate that have been heard today. Tourism is one of the most important branches if not the most important in Croatia and of course the catering activity is in the overall tourist offer in Croatia. The relevant law does not fully comply with the legal acquis of the European Union and that is one of the reasons why it is necessary to go into the adoption of this new law and also with the measures to combat the gray economy, measures are also provided for which implementation is necessary and for whose implementation it is necessary to amend this Law. That's where you think about punishment first. To give greater authority to economic inspectors. So everything that in some way provides a single line in this important segment of the economy. It has already been said several times that certain legal solutions should be changed simply because practice shows us that life works differently and I think it is really good to put into the legal frameworks of the so far uninvolved, and the present ways of carrying out catering activities such as the fairy and hostel alliance, as is the case with the Croatian mountaineering alliance and its members. Also with hunting associations, and I think it's a good idea that concerns the premises of theatre institutions. This is what I would say in principle, and about the text of the bill itself, I would like to say a few thoughts and ask the Proposer to eventually respect them, that is to think about them and possibly try in a different way to regulate some of the matter. In Article 3, the catering activity of some of these segments is also possible for guests, and somewhere only for members of individual associations, such as public institutions, then catering educational institutions. The same applies to theatres, so they provide catering services to guests above all. I think it would also be important in these following items relating to the fairy and hostel alliance, which relate to the mountaineering alliance, and also to hunting associations, to allow catering services to also be provided to guests. It's hard to believe that someone in a mountaineering home won't be able or allowed to serve a guest, but only here will it write primarily, but that's why the possibility is left. But let's just say it doesn't stand with the fairy and hostel alliance. In hunting associations, too, it will be a catering offer for those who are members of the hunting alliance. However, they often also report in their convenient associations and those who are not formally members of the hunting alliance, so I believe that a small change would be good to put in the final draft of the law. Article 8 therefore regulates individual groups of objects and says the representative body can therefore work time and says the representative body can extend the time limit by two hours. What I want to mention and say may not be the subject of this law itself. But here's the specificity of whether it's some law that regulates the disturbance of public order and peace. But I think there's a lot of trouble in those environments or in situations where we have a bar or a restaurant where up to 2 o'clock or 3 o'clock in the night, there's live music and people two or three meters or on the second or third floor would still like to sleep. I appreciate that this is primarily about tourist environments, but I do believe that in some ways the same thing should be taken care of by those people who, at three o'clock in the night or two in the night, would want to sleep here. Article 8 and Article 4 states that I also support this proposal by Mr Markovanovic. We need to operate on this decision. We should certainly give the headship of the local self-government unit the right to make that operational decision because the representative body is nevertheless one of the three three-way mechanisms that meet and somewhere even once in three months and that operational decision should be put in place by the executive body. So he can extend his hours. And here is an exceptional setting of different working hours to organise appropriate celebrations such as the New Year's Eve, weddings, prom parties. New year's and prom parties aren't even a problem. But we have some objects that are almost exclusively alive from the wedding organization, where in restaurants, some social homes, and even the very purposely designed wedding halls, it's the main activity, and it's being lived and held that this segment should therefore be further regulated. If it's going to be those decisions that will apply to the whole year, I don't think it would be a good idea for a decision to be made individually for such an occasion. In Article 13(3), where reference is made to those premises of the type of kiosk, container, fixed vehicle and trailer, tent and the like, it is possible for the representative body to prescribe the external appearance of the catering facility. I would suggest to the promoter that, in the final proposal of the law, the representative body or unit of local self-government must prescribe at least some gauges as these moving or installing catering facilities must look, because we are witnesses today, but we have indeed coloured every kind and they occur especially somewhere in the markets or similar things simply the fairs which are ugly to see. I believe that one solution to the representative body would allow us to determine the gauges, and within which those who work such montage or moving objects may still have little freedom. But one frame in any case should be given to the local self-government unit. In Article 20, I also suggest that we do not change that 15 - day period. I think 30 days is still a little too long to make a final solution. I know there's a lot of demands. We have a limited number of employees working on these solutions. But for the man who did everything, who arranged the catering facility, I think it's too long to wait 30 days for the competent authority to issue a positive or negative solution to meet the conditions for carrying out the activity. And one thing I think is, he just can't stay in the law. This is point 3 of Article 31 concerning the inspection. I'll read it. The citizen shall be personally obliged to provide inspection of the supervised facility within 48 hours of the request of the economic inspector. I don't think it can simply remain the fact that an economic inspector should be announced, and then I, as the owner of the facility, will give him a captain's captain at what time within 48 hours he can come to me for inspection supervision. Well, of course I'll do everything that's wrong with me about the business, sort out the paperwork, tell some guests don't come today, stay a little longer on the beach. I think it must stand out that the citizen is obliged at any time to provide the inspector with inspection supervision, because only then does the inspection provide its purpose. That reminds me of that situation I don't know when the county inspectors or the State Inspectorate are because they don't have a car and then they call the owner who should be in inspection because you can send a vehicle for us. Here. That inspection has lost every purpose. So, definitely the inspector must have the opportunity to arrive at any time, it must be allowed to carry out inspection surveillance, without it being lost meaning. In the following article, I also think that there is a need to clarify a little further what household members mean. Because it says that the provision of household catering services can only be assisted by members of his household. A citizen cannot be an employer or use the work of persons who are not members of his household. Could he be helped by a daughter and son-in-law who don't live in a joint household, a son-in-law, or by grandchildren, but who aren't in the household?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67792	A fellow representative, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67793	Here I am finishing and suggesting only in Article 48. I think this is good, but I'm afraid it will work in practice. It's about those campers, the trailers, the mobile homes. We are witnessing that along our roads on the shelters of hundreds of campers, trailer parks that spend their entire vacation from the north to the south of the Adriatic, parking along the road not paying anywhere or a tourist tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67794	Thank you very much, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67795	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67796	Thank you. Next up is Agent Ivan Kolar. Here you go, fellow representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67797	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. So in any case, I join the initiative and that this activity is better settled, along with all the bad parties that follow our catering activity. I think it's time to help this sector this way. I will be kept more in this part of the problem that grips the village by adopting this new bill of law and these old laws regarding the maintenance of weddings, celebrations, major events, possible gatherings of various kinds where the inevitable and hospitality is present. In fact, these people must also consume food and drink in a certain way. So I ask you, however, to pay attention to an article of the law which allows units of the local administration to organize and give space, but it would not be good for it to be one-off every time, but to so-called. social homes which, with technical conditions, have, among other things, a suitable kitchen, certain rooms means for staying, the possibility of music being there, meaning music, with the prescribed conditions of cooks, servants, sanitary clear testimonies that they must have, to enable such activity. In fact, during the year, up to 3,000 participants went to various celebrations. For example, you are now allowing and citing hunting societies to be able to host their guests in their facilities, among other things. I ask you, Women's Association, Housewives celebrating 40, 50 or 70th anniversary, let's say at my place, that those in their home or in the firehouse do the same. Why not? And they are housewives, they have qualified chefs among them, is he in kindergarten cooking, is he a chef at school professionally, is he engaged in professional activities, which is why he could not cook that lunch, this professional chef, these 7 women sanitaryly be examined and serve his 300 guests. I ask that such a single indication or a provision, if that is so, be resolved by a rule, let it be indicated, let it tell us. But some basic law solves it in a way. Because I remind you, we wanted or did not want customs and habits we will not end this law. We better predict them now, regulate them to a certain law and allow such activities and such celebrations and such events, because it is in one village, in one municipality simply impossible to avoid. I prefer it to be a clear meat clan in authorized slaughterhouses, that they are sanitary-technical conditions and all expensive, I don't think it can go all the way without any control, of all those garters we have to respect. But that possibility must be allowed. And I suggest, I don't think it's a good thing that just mountaineering and hunting homes are mentioned, that voluntary fire departments, because we have such homes. We have social homes that have more standards than our restaurants have, I assure you and can provide catering services in one satisfactory way. And we all, at least we have children, expect big weddings in the way that they are suitable to provide us with such an opportunity, with clearly defined conditions. So I ask nicely that it be defined in one appropriate way, clearly with the possibility of maintenance. I'm being tortured, as head of the local administration, by self-government actually sorting these facilities. And I'm running a fight called a coffee bar. In my view, it is the lowest form of providing catering services, activities, because sanitary and technical conditions are practically at one minimum. And for a wonderful ear, that same facility can have live music, it can shake music as much as it wants to alarm the whole neighborhood. On request or on application when an inspector comes out, the police do it neatly and do their part of the job. However, the sanitary inspector who for, authorized to make noise, the poor man said what Mr. Jelkovac was now saying when he needed it, the second one has no instrument to measure it, and it gives me a letter of the right that I Zagreb-inspect from me, the Zagreb-inspect who measures the noise makes this one examination to see how much decibel we have come to. I ask you who is in 11 or 12 vrs of this Zagreb-inspection come to measure these decibels, under what conditions and how much do I have to pay for my application to be valid and that I could allow that neighborhood to live temporarily, that it has its own night peace and all that together? This is where inspection surveillance needs to be strengthened. The inspector would have to be equipped for it and they wouldn't be allowed to, let me speak for any activity if it wasn't the conditions. I don't object, and we all get together, I mean as citizens, catering activities, places that are adequately equipped for it and don't mind any passersby, residents and anything that might be done to benefit and earn those who do so. But to harm others, this must be regulated in one appropriate way. And this drinking to minors. Our law is clear, the first law. This law now only duplicates it and says it doesn't. But it's the lawlessness of the police again. I'm on the report that it's happening at the center of it and that, firstly consults the inspector where it is, because he doesn't know, she has to have someone. When he comes by accident it's a mess, bottles fly everywhere and goes, he doesn't catch anyone. You recognized, so I can't be the one to recognize these people, etc. And the moment one bottle of liquor was found at the catering facility, that catering facility that sold it should be closed. There's no other inspection that can catch in action. Because if my communal worker during the day that story is over, he's got to fill a bunch of beers, alcohol, alcoholic beverages like this, and nothing happens to the catering facility and everything else is closed. So what other corps of delinquents should do to make it happen. So if the penalties are predicted then it must be said that around the catering facility if the inspection notices, it sees that there are such bottles, then it should be punished in an appropriate way, the second time that boss, that owner will not issue a drink outside, will not drink those children and they are mostly younger minors, they are mostly children who are now adolescents trying, trying a drink because in the catering facility they are not allowed to drink but then go to the park or I don't know where they wander. It can't be bought in any store because the store is closed at the time but at such a catering facility. In the end, I am absolutely the one who supports our laws to be clear, effective, but clear with well-measured penalties and powers but the color and equipment of our inspectors. I'm surprised at the inspection services that they want to do their job at all in the way that they're now unexplored professionally but simply materially that they're impossible missions, and we're all together and we're all unhappy and we're asking them for efficiency. In that sense, and what I was saying first, I ask you to really allow us this activity that is interesting to us, clearly under the conditions that this should be appropriate and in the way that I suppose it is prescribed by law not to harm health and to be useful again to socializing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67798	Thank you very much, dear colleague. We have a report of a replica. Representative Brnadić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67799	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague, I agree with you that it's been really hard to establish so far, and the inspectors have been in an uninvited position to sanction the use of alcoholic beverages to minors, and I therefore believe that this provision is now in Article 12 of the Law, that in a catering facility, a moment is forbidden to serve and allow the consumption of minors. So yet now one and a proper sentence is provided for from 4000 to 100 thousand for a legal person and from 5 thousand to 15 thousand for a responsible person or a natural person. Therefore, there are now legal grounds for sanctioning it in a really good way. Only none of us here today talked about it, and where are the parents of those underage children. How can punishing parents allow their children to go out and stay out of the house at night so late and to remain in fact a non - speaking zone that is not sanctioned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67800	Thank you very much. The representative has the right to reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67801	Thank you very much. The same provision stands in the current law, that in the catering room, it is. A ban on drinking alcohol to minors and you can read it neatly on every bar. It's the same story. Yeah, yeah, well, now the sanctions are supposed to be bigger and I agree with that. But you asked a good question. I absolutely agree with you. Where are the parents, whose children, actually whose mirrors I'm talking about, because the kids are our mirrors and that's what it's really about. Because without supervision to be at that time, consume and not only alcohol but still not to go, she really wonders where she's scheduled to raise and what kind of society we really are, and there's actually the point of this whole thing, but here's our ministry trying to help us move our parents and that responsibility to each other and not have to worry. And that's why it would be good if we could punish our parents for every misdemeanor of a minor then we'd actually have the right state of affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67802	Thank you very much. Next up is Ivaca representative Judge-Thrakostanec. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67803	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, therefore, wanting this law to be as good as possible, and in the first reading, I have a few suggestions on the trail of how to introduce order as much as possible in this activity, but also to allow for the total offer to be made available in ways that are known elsewhere around us, and there is a tendency to make it impossible for us, so on the basis of that, I would first discuss Article 3 which, of course, by opening Pandora's box of exceptions, I think should then define some exceptions when we have them, so I would add to this paragraph 5, where we have hunting associations: "and fishing" because I don't see the difference between hunting society which has its own hunting ground and fishing associations come from the Drava River, where there are countless fishing associations, so that there are their own homes, so that I can say, which they have the Drava River, which have a river, which have both have shruders and that they should not be able to be able to deal with this kind of fishers, and thus, that I think that they can be a lot of fishy-fish. I also don't see that the catering activity or any caterer will lose part of the gain if we determine that extremely, sometimes, very rarely or only once, for example. Each year, citizens' and citizens' associations can offer, subject to all the conditions laid down in the law, their own service, so I suggest that paragraph 3 be completed and that it reads: "under the conditions laid down by this law and the regulations adopted under this law, certain catering services may be provided by citizens and exceptional associations of citizens". In order not to be in a conflict with Article 8, I propose, with Article 11, I apologize, paragraph 3. then I suggest that Article 11(3) reads: "The catering services for appropriate celebrations and events", I suggest that the lists of any, therefore, all of which are, to erase this new year's welcome, because then there is the opening of which are others and which are not. In a catering facility, in another space, why business? The business space is not a firehouse, and it is defined, therefore, to be some strictly defined business space which I do not see necessary, or in open and public space, can be provided by a caterer and an exceptional association of citizens. So, I advocate what Mr. Kolar said, that there is a Croatian woman, that a fire-fighting society once a year, and these are ours in western Croatia known festivals, so called in Dalmatia, these are our forgivenesss, these are our saints who are now, so to speak with rare exceptions and protectors of municipalities where it is celebrated for days and where it has been common for centuries, therefore, that these public parties at the same time support them with their catering offer, with their cookies, with their drinks and, therefore, associations of citizens and caterers in parallel to each other, have enough visitors and that they all earn well. Of course, by respecting all the sanitary conditions, by respecting all these other decisions, I insist that this, in this way, be left to Article 3 and Article 11, as an option with the control of local self-government in this Act. So I assume that the Proposer will accept this initiative and a concrete proposal and work on that in the final draft of the law. Also, in Articles 25, where we have obligations to make, therefore, a caterer who opens up the activity. I want to open up one problem, and this problem of continuous re-registration, activities in one facility on different carriers or crafts or different types of companies where they do not carry out obligations to the state, I have already said that in this House. And I repeat, therefore, the Croatian state should resolve this on the basis of what Germany has. Obligations should have an object. Therefore, no one in an object who did not comply with the obligations, which did not report to the workers, did not pay contributions to health and pension, did not pay the income tax, did not pay sales tax to the local self-government to open a new trade, regardless of whose name it reads until they met the obligations created in that facility. So this law has to be installed somewhere. The most meaningful seems to me in Article 25. Therefore, no one can open a trade at that address until all the obligations from that business title in that facility have been met. I have concrete examples where 15 years of working different forms from, I don't know, moms to grandma, in someone's name they apply and they keep avoiding obligations and that's something they eventually saw, what other countries have elegantly solved, and what I suggest is that, I repeat, they get rid of it in Croatia in such a way as to supplement Article 25. And finally, I would also touch these catering services in rural households and this item 2. subpoint 4 which says that preparing the service of warm and cold meals and drinks and drinks from mostly own production can work. I think it's necessary to completely wipe it out. Thus, preparing and serving warm and cold meals, drinks and drinks for up to 50 guests simultaneously. This is largely our own, firstly, impossible to determine and that is something that is totally unnecessary because this sub-paragraph 5 then further defines what is still its own, so to speak, production. And that's where I would change my word, of course, by appreciating the proposing's efforts to define it in such detail as to say "domestic cuts". So, the steak is something that's cut, it's unnecessary for me, I'd say homemade dishes from my own production because, I don't know, some common corn noodles are a simple meal, and that's probably to be offered to someone who's passing, so I would, therefore, change the word "cut" into the word "eating" which is a slightly wider birth term and which assumes, of course, one broad possibility because, of course, I know that this small number of inspectors won't be able to control all that offer, but evil shouldn't, with the public neighbour's report might happen. So let the law, therefore, be very clearly defined and leave that possibility to be simple dishes. I repeat, it's traditional for us to have some brandy, sour milk and stuff. Here, on the trail of this I hope that all these other remarks made by these colleagues will appear in the next reading clearly defined text. And it is only possible, then, to clarify in Article 8 that it would be good to talk again about the conditions of the prescribed specific regulations. Therefore, it may be clearer to define which rules are specific because the decisions taken by local self-government representatives are decisions that are not always prepared by sufficiently educated people. So, they may need to be defined by specific regulations. Is this the Law of Noise, the Penal Code of Disruption of Public Order and Peace, to help them to leave this broad birth term in confusion. They are not in a position to consume all the regulations that apply to this, so perhaps to clarify the section that is meant to be. Here, thank you very much, and I hope that the text will be improved.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67804	Thank you very much. There's a replica in your discussion. Representative Markov, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67805	Thank you very much. A colleague of Trakostanac has rightly noticed, but perhaps you should further explain why it might be good for her own production to be replaced with a largely domestic indigenous product. Why? Because in Slavia it's cool, in Dalmatia it's prosciutto, there's some dry fish on the islands. So there is a whole series of reasons to build on this exactly the gastronomic excellence of Croatia. But maybe, why only in rural households. So what shouldn't it be in elite facilities, which shouldn't be in all hotels, which is not exactly the strongest entrance that Croatia has? However, it will be very difficult to prescribe someone to consume domestic products. We can prescribe what I suggested, to produce as many domestic products as possible, and then we'll have as much choice on the market as possible. So you're right because you're going in the right direction, but these things are connected to each other, and that excellence of indigenous homework should be present everywhere. From the most exclusive hotels to households in a rural household who want to offer their services in another environment. In the second environment, but they must offer equally quality in both the top hotel and the household, and that is then the symbiosis of the great Croatia in terms of tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67806	Thank you very much. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67807	Thank you. Mr. Markov, you may have mixed up two things. One is production in Croatia, so Croatian production, one production in its own household. Here the promoter had the intensities to say that in this household the offer was offered and produced. Therefore, that is the intensity of Article 38. However, here are these little changes that I said I leave the freedom to be an offer from the neighborhood and to be a particular source of procurement that everyone will choose. I congratulate this government for making such efforts in hotels where the state owns products from Croatian companies, so it could have done so in the case where it owns. Where private owners are unfortunately we can only develop awareness that it is better to buy and offer a stranger a product manufactured in Croatia and under a company originally Croatian than to eat Chinese food in Croatia. Every real tourist who comes to meet the country will choose from the offer what the country represents, which is why Croatian cuisine and Croatian product I assume is an advantage over others. Unfortunately, we are now coming to a slippery area of price difference and here with all the efforts, so with the incentives we have given we are fortunate that both our products and our priced competition are much more high-quality. Here I hope that all the measures and the Ministry of Reconstruction and Development and Tourism and the Ministry of Agriculture and other economics will, so to speak, give rise to the fact that Croatian producers do not lose the first Croatian market, and that when the settlement of the Croatian market goes expansionistly out into export. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67808	Thank you. Next up is Agent Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67809	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. This Law represents a certain liberalisation in the catering activity, ok, okay, we're all for it. The question is, who do we want to help with this law? Do we want to help our people who have their homes, holiday homes, their rural households to earn one extra profit by doing the catering work, or do we want to allow foreigners to deal with tourism? To that question, this bill of law does not give a clear answer, and that is an important question so that we can run over it, close our eyes on it, pretend it is not there. If we allow these foreign laws to be used for small taxes, small taxes, flat-rate givings here, so to tell the craftsmen are engaged in hospitality and tourism, then we have done damage to our people. Now, that shouldn't happen. What does the law say? The law says the service of citizens in the household, but it doesn't say anywhere what it is, there's no definition of what a household is in terms of this law. Therefore, until the second reading, the concepts of what a household is within the meaning of this Law must be defined. Is the stranger who bought an apartment with 6 rooms, some house with 6 rooms on the Adriatic, so he'll be staying in one summer, and 5 rent is that a household? No, someone says it is, and others say it isn't. It can't be like that. This must be clearly defined by law. This is the most significant, most important remark on the proposed legal text. Next, what isn't in this law, which should be? I wonder if he's the legislator, and he's probably ever driven any ferry on the Adriatic? When you get on the ferry, there's always a salon, there's coffee, you can buy a drink, it's a catering activity, and the ferry isn't even a bar, it's not a restaurant, it's not a camp, it's not a hotel, it's just a ferry, it's a floating object. The catering activity on floating facilities in the maritime land has not been entered into the Household Act. The administrative something incredible, a rough failure that I believe until the second reading, I believe that, I believe, this unintentioned, but until the second reading has to be brought in, and not only mention it, but elaborate it, because you have our seamen, people who live by the sea, who are doing it on a field trip to some island, so they are served there and made by some fish and what I know is what they offer and wine, they sell them brandy. And in order not to do that, they're totally illegal, outside the law, let's regulate it, enter it, and that maybe one whole chapter should be, maybe two, three articles to define it, to work it out, so it doesn't stay out of the law in the maritime land. The third thing that's unclear to me is why you're sharing in this categorization of these catering bars, these facilities, the bars I think you're calling them. One can only work at night, and the other can only work by day. It's unclear to me. Why does someone who has a license to work at night because they meet the sanitary-technical conditions of this additional all-special condition hasn't been able to work by day? Why does he have to start working I don't know at 21 o'clock as you predicted, why can't he start working afternoon or at 10 o'clock in the morning? It's completely unclear to me. I don't see any logical and justifiable reason why someone who meets stricter conditions can't operate on milder terms, and for the operation of a catering, keeping a restaurant at night are certainly stricter conditions. The minors. What does the Law say? The sale of drinks to a minor is prohibited. Look, it's been banned so far. Is that working? We all know it doesn't work. And how does it not work? And by the way, the guy at the bar says how do I know if he's underage or not, so I can't legitimize him, and he can't, and he can't. That's to change that he's authorized not to sell a drink for the one he suspects to be underage until this guy proves his adulthood, so let him take out his ID card and prove he's 18, but then there's got to be such an excuse, and then he'll be guilty, then there's no excuse. You know, then he doesn't have an excuse that he didn't know if this one was small because he really doesn't know. He's got young people, he looks like a minor, and he's older, he's got reverse cases. Therefore, when he, he is obliged to suspect, he is obliged to suspect and tell you that I will not sell you a drink. If you show me your ID card, you don't have to show it to me because I don't have the right to legitimize you, and if you show me and I see it's you and I'll sell you a drink. And if he doesn't, he doesn't have a drink. Then what's already in the law and in practice doesn't work a little bit closer to what we want and we all want minors not to get a drink, that's clear, I guess that's not what we're arguing about. There has been thought about this illegal construction and the fact that there is a permit to work on the legality of the facility in question. I think that's a good solution, that's good thinking. Look, we're all talking about illegal construction as a big problem, all of us. We are talking about Croatia's apartmentisation as a problem, about the concreteisation of the coast and, at the same time, we allow this law to create an illegal object, it starts legal catering activity, because it will get permission, it meets all of these conditions. Okay, you'll be able to explain it as a proposer in the final word. I think the 25th article should add: "in a building that has a building permit if built after 68. "years." To define it, to discourage anyone who in some illegal facility, in some wild building, would still want to make money. Not only did he bring it up illegally, but he wants to make more money. Look, lawless construction is a really big problem. Today we read about the newspaper there these two from the Great Mist have built illegal facilities by the sea. The people in the local government are careful, they should be an example to others. And one of them, when journalists write about it, says more people, says it's political pressure on Velo Misto. I mean, really incomprehensible! Instead of having Minister Marina Matulović-Dropulić today send the baggers to tear it down, today to discourage all those who will use political power to build and when it is removed then say so, for political reasons, tear it down for me. And in the end a little bit, I don't know why the legal proposals that come from the government so often are superficially written and full of sloppyness. See Article 27, that's camping. Item 2 tells you, "Camping is only allowed in camps." And item 5: "It's forbidden to set up camps, camp homes for camping outside camps." Well, that's the same thing to you, it's pure tautology. You'll either allow it only in camps, or you'll ban it outside of camps, but it's exactly the same. Then we move immediately on this article to 43rd, that is, criminal provisions where you say that there will be some kind of punishment if someone camps against Article 27(3) and paragraph 3 does not speak of it at all. Paragraph 3 tells you that during the maintenance of sports, scouts, cultural and artistic sites, a tent can be set up somewhere. This has nothing to do with paragraph 3. And then on immediately to Article 48, where you say, you repeat again paragraph 27, paragraph 3 and then in brackets Article 27, paragraphs 1, 2 and 4. One mess. There is no idea what this criminal provision refers to, in fact, to which article, all those items are counted in that criminal provision, all items other than paragraph 5 which should only be there. And look, I agree someone here said, let me President one more sentence, just let me finish the thought. Punishment of illegal camping. If we have the authority of a police officer to control the consumption of alcohol in minors, this would be effective in giving to a police officer. So where's Mr. Inspector? By the time he gets here, and then he file a criminal charges against a stranger. He's gone with his camphouse. Who's gonna punish him? A commanding officer on the spot to punish him then it will be effective. Thank you very much. And thank you, Mr. President, for letting me.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67810	Thank you. Replica, a respected representative of Miroslav Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67811	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I have to replicate because my colleague Stazić has shown very correctly and practically what happens to alcohol and sales and alcohol consumption in catering facilities. There's one thing we've all forgotten so much together. This is a problem of smoking in non-respected catering facilities, there are no letters here because some circles make very good profits on the sale of tobacco products. It seems to me that it should also be very clear and precise to write here that it is forbidden to sell and consume tobacco reprocessing to persons under the age of 18 in catering facilities. Why, Mr. Secretary of State, is there not a word here, not a letter? That's very clear and precise. Who's under the weather? We had a recent World Non-Smoking Day. We celebrated it and marked it in Croatia, we know it all, because it looks like we're going to have to close some of the catering facilities then that don't meet the basic requirements. I can't come to a coffee shop as a non-smoker because I feel like I'm out of a smoke shop. I'd like to hear some normal reason, Mr. Secretary of State, here I call you, maybe after this debate and you say why you didn't put it because it's not just about alcohol, it's about tobacco processing, and it's not just about those who were bought there, but also about those who came and we know that coffee shops are what the situation is and what it's about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67812	Thank you. The Honorable Representative, Zvonimir Sabati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67813	Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I would say, first of all, that it is good that this law is now in the first reading because it is possible and based on the debate I hope to do a little more repair for the second reading. What I would say at the outset seems to me that it's not good that this bill narrows down certain rights and introduces new restrictions. I will make an example of Article 28 where, according to the applicable law, citizens can be provided, so in the household of ten rooms and twenty beds, and now we are talking about a certain restriction on seven rooms and fourteen beds. The same can be said in the same article where camping is discussed. So far there have been ten accommodation units and 30 guests and from now on seven accommodation units and 25 guests. I'll maybe look more at this first part because it kind of seems more logical and better to explain. In fact, all of us and through certain ideas related to the development of tourism and through the ministry motivate our citizens do not matter whether craftsmen or whether citizens in the household take certain loans. And each of them takes credit and plans to pay off a certain number of years. But how? With 10 rooms and 20 beds. And now, all of a sudden, when he takes that loan under certain conditions, the law that we limit him to, we're actually cutting revenue. That's definitely the way it is. It's not the same as having 10 rooms or 7 rooms. And his credit is the same. So that's not a good message to the public. I suggest you think again about whether it is possible to return to the existing provisions of the law? I, I read carefully this opening explanation where we compete with countries, I don't know Germany, Austria and so on. It's okay. But the question arises, if we are to compete with them, we have also set some good examples that Austria does, for example. When I went to Austria a few years ago, I spoke to these people like ours and said: "We are selling our domestic product until a certain amount of shillings then. It's a declared domestic product. And we don't pay taxes for it." Why shouldn't we think about it? In this way, we would stimulate local people to produce their own food at home. Additional stimulation. We don't have to stimulate them completely differently. Let's just say, I'm talking about a month's worth of five thousand kunas if he sells what was produced at home, maybe he shouldn't pay taxes on that. I only say as an example one in which we could also introduce certain subsidies into this type of activity. What I feel even more generally to say in this bill there are a lot of articles in which the minister is empowered to solve a lot of things in the rules and so on and so on. I will give you some of these articles, Article 7, paragraph 4. I'm not saying here that the minister regulations the form, content and manner of keeping the book of guests and the book of complaints. That's understood. It's a routine. It's just a job that can be handled like that. But here you have that the minister prescribes the types of catering facilities within the groups referred to in paragraph 1. Afterwards services that must and may be provided in a particular type of catering facility and so on. Article 15 tells you: "The Minister rules out which types of objects are categorized, categories, conditions for categories. So very important things. Let's not say article 16. Look at the item. "The Minister rules out the types of catering facilities and groups of hotels for which specific standards can be established and quality labels, types of specific standards, conditions and elements, labels and ways can be assigned." So a little too much seems to be given to me by the minister of power. Article 19, similar. Take a look. So it might be good to see if we can regulate something by law and not go to the rules. Let me look back at two important articles. Of course, as has been said many times before, I will look back a little on Article 12, which gives the representative body of the local self-government authority to prohibit the use of alcoholic beverages in catering facilities during a certain period of time. In principle, I agree that we should bring down a whole series of these... We even say the obligation to the representative bodies of the local self-government unit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because they know best what, how and how it works? But now look here a little bit of absurd. We have a small municipality, I don't know I can take the Flea or the Flemish Hum from, and there's a lot of them. The question is, is the Chief... They only have a secretary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who's going to control if it's going to happen? After that if you can't control anyone... We can look at it the other way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Maybe someone doesn't like it politically, so we'll narrow it down a little bit. And after all, who's going to carry out certain criminal acts, who's going to prescribe criminal provisions if they do? I mean, there's a whole series of problems here that should be handled a little more precisely if it's going that way. However, Article 38 gave me a lot of talk about it since I live in the country too, so I know what life in the country means. The peasant household...... Well, of course, that's why I'm at HSS Pero. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's understood, but not just for that. So the peasant household that provides certain catering services again here I was saying that certain restrictions are set, accommodation services in the room and appraisal up to a maximum of 10 rooms and for 20 guests at the same time. And, of course, paragraph 3. Again, the minister prescribes a lot of things, and in the context of this paragraph 2, especially this 5th, to serve must, wine, fruit wine and so on in an orderly part of a residential or economic facility for up to 50 guests at the same time. That was said. I don't think that's good. How, then, could someone who deals with the peasant, family, or rural tourism still have a large facility, take a large loan of course to expect weddings to be there. As weddings take place if it's prescribed, you have to, I mean, I might, maybe we got it all wrong. I don't understand, but that's what it says here. There is, however, a provision there that can be prescribed. But it's not exactly like that. So I suggest you carefully consider these restrictions that don't seem acceptable to me. Why don't we even drop that up to 50 guests at the same time? What's that supposed to accomplish? Me, to be honest, I don't understand. In addition to this general, general remark, it is good that the first reading is good and I repeat they are not well-proposed total narrowing of these rights either by reducing certain rights or by introducing certain restrictions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67814	Thank you. Honorable representative of Jure Bitunac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67815	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Tourism is certainly one of the most important economic branches, as well as a driver of the overall economy of the Republic of Croatia. In this direction the Government of the Republic and the competent ministry, the Ministry of Economy went with a number of incentives. The Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development as well as the county units of local self-government, depending on the case, joined such a single project. I can say that certainly the catering activity has one special role when it comes to the total tourist offer, and that is, but it is for itself and one specific segment that needs to be properly arranged and I believe that this law is going in this direction that the area of catering activities as such is, to prevent a gray economy that is quite present and that Croatia finally gets one law that is within the framework and a trail of European laws. Allow me a few remarks when it comes to the bill itself. Working hours are defined in Article 8. I think that this is a good framework in relation to current practice and legislation where certain gauges need to be made minimally by catering facilities and which should be one framework for units of local self-government which, again through their specific acts, acts of city councils, or chieftainships, can correct this work time according to specificities. What bothers me as a citizen is at least the seven, eight days I go on vacation is the music in the open. What happens, in many of our places, many of our towns in the region of Dalmatia de facto have one terror of music so that an entire city, one whole town echoes from these powerful decibils and possibly everyone who wants to go to sleep around half the night disturbs them. I think that the issue should be regulated, that it should be sanctioned and that, with the nightlife present in these towns, one normal vacation should still be made possible for people who want to do so and who want to rest differently. As for drinking alcohol in Article 12, I think it is well defined, but it is not a problem in Croatia. This is a problem in all other countries, too, in all other countries. So, drinking alcohol from young to 18 years old. It is difficult to implement and de facto would be those who work in hospitality in a situation that they must each person and today there are many who are potentially suspicious of them not having 18 years to legitimize. Because the police should certainly have a role to play in all this. However, I would refer to what one of my fellow MPs said about smoking. I think when it comes to the catering activity that she can't treat that problem, it can't be the subject of this law. Smoking is regulated entirely by other laws, and the sale of cigarettes is tied to the Law on Trade, or other laws. So to involve it, to introduce it into the law in question, in the proposal in question, I don't think it's an option. What causes certain doubts about me is the head of VI. Hostage services of household and rural households. I think I'd like to join some of my colleagues, or colleagues, here to determine exactly what a citizen in the household means by avoiding any dilemmas, and the services in the peasant household, I'd say next. I believe that the Dalmatian Zagora from where I come from lately and otherwise the interior of Dalmatia to slowly engage in tourist trends and offer what the coast cannot only offer and that is one addition to the total tourist offer in the region of Dalmatia, that is, Croatia. However, I must say, when it comes to peasant households themselves, we cannot go from rough, clean statistics. The question arises what is a peasant household? Is it going to come from income, so if the incomes are from agriculture, livestock, I don't know what 50 and something, above the total income that it means peasant household, and if they're lower that it's not. I think there should be one flexibility present and that in this direction should also be differently sanctioned by law, i.e. the main income we all know of such households that tend to engage in catering are primarily theirs, so they are not so attached to tourism itself or to tourist season, but even to hikers throughout the year. This is the main source of their income and ways to reach certain resources and supplement what they themselves produce in their household. In this sense, my proposal in this everything I have said does not come from the existing situation as such, but rather see it as one perspective, as one possibility of developing agro tourism in the territory of the Croatian village, in the area of Dalmatia Zagora. I hope that this submitted proposal, which is before us, is a good one, I would say a great basis, but it certainly needs to be complemented, completed and I hope that we will be accepted by the opinions of our representatives in order to have a quality and complete way that we would bring by consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67816	Thank you. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67817	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. Well, the first thing I have to say is that a significant number of problems in the field of hospitality, and unfortunately, the proposal for this law does not solve everything that is present now, regardless of what the P.Z. has. In fact, this is because many of the legal regulations in our country are not in line with the catering activity. I can only speak about it, I'm going to say an example of inconsistency with the Labour Act that refers to, say, business leaders, those professional catering leaders who don't have to be employees. Although the Labour Act says how and how someone can do something and then it comes down to just having a man when he registers. After that, no one cares about it anymore, and the inspector can't even take care of it because it's in the jurisdiction of this county office. And secondly, here it is normal for us as a tourist country to take care of the development of hospitality. But on the other hand, we must also take care of Croatian citizens living near or in the area where the catering facilities are located. Here is now during this debate when there were a lot of words about working time and everything that many here have been looking for, the HSP Club has called a lot of Zagrebers living in the Jarun area and are just talking about how this solution, let's say, the City of Zagreb has extended its working hours to all the restaurants in the Jarun area. They're out there in a small space somewhere fourteenth with that it's a very interesting situation that most of them don't have a building permit that's been illegally placed there and they've been working all night. The categorization is what Mr. Kolar used to say. He shakes the music, everything gets upset, and nobody does anything about it. And when an explanation is sought from the City of Zagreb, then let's say the Mayor or Mayor Jelavić says so it's not within the village it's a little further from the settlement. And normally, when the inspector comes to the application, he can't determine anything because he doesn't have the appropriate devices to measure the volume of noise. So what's going on here? So we have to equip the inspectors on the one hand, and on the other hand, the biggest problem is that there is no law on categorization of catering facilities, especially those that mean they can work all night long. And in order for us to do that, it's the most important thing for us to do. So it can be achieved but to make the regulation clear, that the regulation is simulated and then this part can be achieved to meet the requirements of the guest company. But on the other hand, it does not harm Croatian citizens who live near such tourist facilities. Because watch out, tourism is tourism, but a man who lives there, unless these tourist, or catering facilities meet the conditions he does the next day. So he's not, he's not resting, he's resting a tourist who came there, but a man has a duty, he has to work, he has to live on something. And most of them are not in that position they live there and he doesn't have much to gain from it tourism because he neither rents nor has the ability to rent. And now, it's very interesting this explanation why foreigners who are meaning in a strange, mysterious way will come to real estate in Croatia and now, they have the meaning of tourist facilities, they rent it and everything else, and here we are, now we're going to solve this problem that we're going to let them rent it now, because now we're going to introduce them, because they're going to pay both tourist fees and everything else. Very interesting one explanation. Instead of asking ourselves how and how this happened, why the relevant ones did not do their part of the work. And yet this worse version is that they will now be able to deal with this part of tourism in the so-called tourism. The peasants' holdings. Therefore, there is a lot of doubt and a lot of problems that the law did not give an answer to. And that's why I think the ministry should cooperate more with relevant inspections when it comes to regulation, so either it's about the State Inspectorate where the economic inspectors are, or it's about other ministries where the inspectors are sanitary. And it would be a far better and more realistic assessment of the situation in this area. And I believe there would be far more quality provisions. Because there's a lot of these nomotechnic and various gaps, when one provision rules out. So this is what I'm saying in that part to really get for the second, for the final proposal to be a far more quality law. And mostly about this illegal camping and everything. Because the situation has been so far that it was in the jurisdiction of the communal directors. And many, for example, go only this part from Senj to Zadar. It's normal for you all to camp out in areas where camping is not allowed, especially those trailers, camphouses. And there are no municipalities from Senj onward that have no general utility directors. The police didn't have any authority when she got here and you just walk through that area and you'll see that nothing's been done. And finally, he would really propose to the ministry if he wanted to have more quality and better laws to go according to the principle of what Austria-Hungarian did to take an employee from the ministry who would be written and which any proposal you make will read. And if he understands him, then refer him to the procedure. This is pretty vague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67818	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67819	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Kola Kovacevic said that when inspectors come to the field after a noise report, they cannot measure the noise because it is not equipped and should be supplied with noise measurement devices. Unfortunately, I have to tell you that according to the Noise Act, the inspector can't even measure the noise, because he's not authorized because he doesn't, because it's specifically prescribed by law who can measure, with which instruments, and how to interpret the results. The inspector certainly can't do that in any case because it's simply impossible in one person to have so many experts.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67820	Dear Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67821	It is a false assumption that municipalities, or cities from Senj to Zadar, do not have municipal directors. They've got communal directors. He was literally so supposed to be. And this problem, especially lately, has been successfully solved by competent inspections within their jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67822	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67823	The breach of the Rules of Procedure is an article, it corrected an incorrect allegation. I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67824	Who's he?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67825	He, the gentleman of honor, who says I was wrong. My colleague, he corrects Article 209. I said that from Senj to Zadar many municipalities do not have municipal directors. They can give him countless examples from Starigrad Paklenica, from Jasenica and others where they have no municipal director to monitor it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67826	You claim one thing, he claims the other. You can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67827	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67828	Allegedly.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67829	I, no, no, I know. I'm not saying. I know, it's a big difference. And he doesn't know, so he's correcting me. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67830	Don't, don't. Dear Representative Jozo Topic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67831	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. A few words, with a few words I also want to get involved in the debate in this bill. This law waited long and well for it to be in the process and that in two readings to continue to be held at expert discussions in certain host associations, it crystallised the best solution in the final draft of the law. This area is extremely important. Restaurant activities as an integral part of the entire tourist offer, i.e. the activities of the Republic of Croatia, given the importance and role of tourism in the entire economy of the Republic of Croatia. As I understand it, this bill has the intensity to liberalise the provision of catering services, which I welcome. It also aims to prevent the grey economy from being reduced to some reasonable contexts with better regulation. And of course there is the same obligation to comply with the legislation of the European Union. So I think this is extremely important and good that this bill is in the process. This law clearly defines everything that is important, which is a catering activity, which entities can deal with catering activities and, of course, the standards they should meet in carrying out this catering activity. Of course, a lot of space is also devoted to providing catering services to citizens in the household. There is also a lot said about inspections and criminal measures and these criminal measures have been greatly increased as I believe if the inspection is doing its job that the law will be applied and that it will give certain results and, of course, this problem or the appearance of camping has also been mentioned. Since respected colleagues and colleagues have made it quite comprehensive in their discussions, I can say each article in person, I would look a little more at this problem of camping, especially camping with this big "whonenmobile" or as it is called in Croatian, mobile homes for tourism and housing. I accept and join all those colleagues who are quite critical of the regulation of this phenomenon, parking permits, retaining permits and, of course, camping in certain places. The fact that this phenomenon of a tourist with these whonenmobiles is getting more and more common. It's one trend in tourism, and we need to be aware of that. But the fact is that we as a tourist country haven't prepared enough for this phenomenon in time, because the fact that these are quite large cars is already at the level of small buses. So, first of all, we don't have adequate signals on our roads where there's even a possibility of stopping and parking, so it's not only the guilt of our guests, the tourists that we have this mess in cities, along the road, on the coast, but it's actually the consequence that we didn't prepare for it in time. It's quite clearly arranged out there, and it's defined, so it's known that there are indications where you can stop and there's this stop-and-stop institute, which means it's usually up to two hours, for that time he can also look around the city, he can also take a bath, he can also take this and that, but he can't stay overnight, so he can't stay in that place at that location. Thus, few who know the coast quite well, I don't know which autocamp or which city or which tourist region has at all clear tags where they can stop, where they can camp and thus not only create riots and burden the environment but simply lose a significant portion of the income that could contribute that we are better prepared, that we are better organized. This problem is particularly expressed on our islands, because the fact that our islands don't have a lot of campers, because it's logical and it's known why and I think that the phenomenon of parking in the vineyards, under the fig tree, is very present everywhere. Therefore, it should be regulated in such a way that the foreigners, the tourists who come with these big "whonenmobiles" when they come on the ferry, simply have to have some proof that they have a reserved place to park in which carcamp, or where they would avoid these unwanted phenomena. And of course, here, I think that's what my colleague Stazic said, as far as this inspection control is concerned, that the police might make a significant contribution because I think in the law by 95 the police had the right to control, i.e. inspection and to take certain sanctions for those who had parked, i.e. their "whonenmobiles" in inappropriate places. I think the police atta should be more involved in this inspection surveillance. He would also briefly refer to the issue of technical conditions especially for non-populated facilities, and at the first moment I think of the provided appropriate parking space. An adequate number of parking spaces and access roads are provided and the lighting of the parking lot is unfortunately the fact that many buildings that are made often and without a building permit are also carried out without a building permit right next to the road, so we have cases that people have nowhere to park, young people have nowhere to park and then parking is done on the road, on the road and what further creates a major problem and uncertainty in the traffic itself. I think that this must be taken into account and I think that all these facilities should be prescribed, without legally prescribed, that they must meet the conditions according to the capacity of the facility that the number of parking spaces should have. I see my light is on and finally I join all those who have asked the question of clarity in Article 33. I think that by the second reading of this article, these provisions of Article 33 should be more clearly defined in terms of what household is, who should be engaged and how the rent of rooms should be given as a home activity so as not to be a craft, i.e. a company. Thank you very much. Here's my little contribution to this debate. I hope that these proposals will be respected and that in the second reading we will have more clearly defined this issue and parking, i.e. parking spaces, i.e. the issue of these technical conditions, and of course we expect and this should already be for this season before and before the law enters into force, it is foreseen for next year, that at least by certain signalling, by certain traffic markings already now on our coast mark places where it is possible to stop these "whonenmobiles" and where camping is possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67832	Thank you. Honorable representative Walter Poropat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67833	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries with colleagues, colleagues and fellow MPs. Allow me to refer with a few sentences to this proposal of the Household Activity Act. In fact, the existing Household Activity Act has already had 10 amendments and additions to this day and it is time that the new Bill of Law came to the agenda of the Croatian Parliament and in the first reading so that, in the final proposal of the law, after a multiple debate with all relevant factors of the host Ceha, further install all the provisions and suggestions that will ultimately raise the catering activity to a level that is certainly deserved. The current law also does not comply with the right of the European Union acquis. The adoption of a new Law on Hosting is foreseen by the plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2006 in accordance with the agreed plan for the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement for 2006 or the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia for the approximation of the European Union for 2006. It is very important that this Law raises the quality of service, and that I especially highlight technical characteristics. Especially making noise and vibrations. I repeat, vibrations for the reason that certain objects have built-in noise protection, but are not statically or designed, nor built to protect against vibration transmissions, so in the resonance basses shake glass, and sometimes walls. The same shall be true of infringements, i.e. fines for offences, in accordance with the infringements. So, from alcohol abuse to underage people, overruns of noise and vibrations, overwork hours and so forth. What I also find important is that in this debate there must be special importance for both buildings and facilities that have a solution for carrying out catering activities, and they do not have a building permit, let alone a useful permit for a catering facility. What does that mean? This means that these facilities can have technically incorrect installations and they, as such, do not have a technical review. What does that mean? This means that they can also be dangerous to health, in some cases even dangerous to the lives of guests, but also what is also important to the staff who work in these facilities. I also think that we should leave the units of local self-government to decide, which is the working time of the catering facilities or better said, until these facilities can be opened. Because we'll agree that the difference between town and town is big. From the part of the town to the part of the town or the village too, let alone from the residential part of the village to the fun part of the settlement or town. Therefore, gentlemen, let us leave to the local self-government units to determine the working time of the catering facilities themselves, that is, how long these facilities will be open. This was also about smoking and smoking in catering facilities. I do, however, and I will join those who, along with drinking alcohol to minors, have also put themselves into this Law, which will then be much simpler to deal with the problem that we face daily. And finally, this debate is certainly welcome and I want to believe that this High House of Tourist Croatia will finally pass a law that will go in favour of the common good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67834	Dear Representative Zdenko Antesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67835	Thank you very much, Mr. President, distinguished secretary of state with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues. I will very briefly just highlight 3 questions to which I would ask that the legislator of this Law pay attention when drawing up the final proposal of the Law, which is the first question my colleague Stazic has already said a few words to. And that's the issue of carrying out catering activities on board ships. Thus, in this Law this question is not regulated, or only mentioned in the list of facilities where the catering activity is carried out. I believe that Croatia as a maritime country deserves to regulate this issue in a concrete way because we know that there are ferry, passenger ships, cruise ships, excursion ships, ships that sail in one day, for several days. And they usually do some kind of catering activity, and I don't think that the conditions for carrying out catering activities on ships can be, or are not, the same as on land, and that requires, therefore, other standards, the introduction of other standards and the regulation of other conditions of implementation. Another question I would also draw attention to. There's been a lot of talk about it today, it's a set of working hours, so it's a set of working hours for catering facilities. I will repeat once again, as I have repeated in the debate on behalf of the club, that determining the working time of the catering facilities from one place, therefore, from the top of the central state is not good and that question, that is also a question, of incurring units of local self-government. And I think that local self-government units know much better the specific conditions that apply to their areas than the ministry, that is, this House of Highers. Namely, you will undoubtedly agree that the conditions of attending in one Dubrovnik, Poreč, Hvar, Rijeka, Zagreb or not know, or in some typical rural place like Bednja or I don't know, so that someone doesn't get me wrong, they're not the same. And that's why there's one place where you can't prescribe working hours plus-minus two hours as it's allowed for restaurants and bars. So, I think, personally, I stand behind the fact that working time should be left entirely in the custody of local self-government units. The third question, which is actually the most difficult question and unfortunately it is not spoken of to a sufficient extent, which is the question of renting, therefore, the rental of buildings of its own, so to speak, so to speak. rent in home work, i.e. in own houses, apartments. I'd like to expand the subject a little bit. Let us remember the island of Vir where, thanks to the alleged stimulation of illegal construction back many years came to a savagery in space and we have come into the situation that, in one impossible situation and I personally congratulate the minister for what she found, she has had the strength to deal with it and try at least partially to solve this problem because the devastation of space has taken place, especially on our shores of unprecedented proportions. But what am I saying? We witnessed that the object of destruction was mostly foreign property owned by foreign foreigners. We now allow this Law to be rented so as citizens renting buildings, their cottages, apartments can also be performed by foreigners as citizens under the same conditions as Croatian citizens. I don't think that's a good idea. We must take care of our citizens, therefore Croatian citizens, because in this way liberalising this activity is not good and will cause a lot of problems. In fact, this Law, in fact, if you might give a little imagination, we are simply trying to cement the state's inability, or state institutions to face this problem of black rental, illegal construction, we are simply trying to cement the existing situation because when we get permission to rent citizens, objects owned by citizens, or so on. Housework is neither necessary nor necessary to present a certificate of citizenship, so it does not have to be Croatian citizens and it is not necessary to present a document that the facility is built in accordance with the Construction Act. So by speculating on such an opportunity, I come to the conclusion, the simple conclusion that it's not good. By this proposal, I ask the promoter to take a little care of it, or perhaps I have not been able to read this Law well, because it is clear and loudly necessary to say that the foreigners, therefore, will be able to rent their apartments, their cottages in Croatia under the same conditions as Croatian citizens, without stressing that they should give evidence that they were built under the Construction Act. I'm asking a rhetorical question which, directly, is the government gentlemen, do you know that a Croatian citizen is a citizen, for example. Can he rent his apartment as a citizen on a ski resort in Insbruck? So, can he? I'm not talking about it if he's got an open company, if he's got a twist. Can he, a Croatian citizen in Austria, rent his apartment, or make a living as a citizen? I would ask that question to be cleared up and then that would be much clearer. And finally here is the announcement of the liberalisation of the sale of real estate to foreigners, and then announce that according to the new Forest Law proposal, the minister will be able to turn some of the forest into a construction area. The possibility is now introduced that foreign citizens in their apartments without a valid building permit, i.e. they can legally rent their facilities to tourists. I'm not for that kind of approach, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm just, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I. I. I. I. I'm, I. I. I. I. I. I. I. I. I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I, I, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I', I'm, I, I, I, I', I, I, I, I, I', I, I'm, I', I', I, I, I, I, I, I, I'm, I'm, I, I, I, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I'm, I, I, I'm, I, I, I', I', I' Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67836	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development Zdenko Mičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67837	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. Here on behalf of the promoter, I therefore thank you for a constructive and very reasoned debate. Surely this law deserves even more attention because it is an important segment of the tourist offer. We have the intensities to increase quality, to combat the illegality of business, to increase supervision, but also to open development, to liberalise the way of business and to certainly enable the development of particularly continental part of Croatia, so catering in rural households, etc. We will discuss all the discussions and suggestions and remarks together with the guest and professional associations. I believe we will come before you with a quality proposal for final text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-09-0.u67838	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Continuing the session at 3:00, we will vote on one good part of the legal proposals and other points discussed. It's the 13th 40th hour. Proposal for a Household Activity Act, first reading. I am voting on the next conclusion of the proposal for a Household Activity Act. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final proposal for the Law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 94 votes in favour and four abstentions, the proposed conclusion.
