ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69552	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable representatives of this House. Just over half a year ago, I stood behind this speaker here on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and represented a budget for 2006, a budget I called ambitious and feasible. Today, 6 months and more after we adopted that budget for 2006 I am pleased to return to this same speaker not only to confirm that what we intended and that we adopted then in the Croatian Parliament and achieved, not only to confirm the feasibility of this budget, but to present, I propose an even more ambitious version of the 2006 budget. Dear MPs and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia today propose changes and additions to the 2006 budget that fully reflect the main strategic objectives of the Croatian state. Two and a half years ago, the government set its goal – ensuring macro-economic stability and fostering long-term sustainable economic growth, which means greater prosperity and a higher standard of living for its citizens. We all know very well that to achieve, that the said goal cannot be achieved overnight. But let me be pleased to say that this government has been leading a very determined and economic policy that is aimed at achieving these goals since the start of its mandate, and of course we will continue in this direction. The Economic Programme of the Government, which represents a consistent and comprehensive plan for achieving the fundamental objectives, has been presented through a series of strategic important documents discussed in the Croatian Parliament, above all the guidelines of economic and fiscal policy, the pre-accession economic programme. To the key documents in the international relations of the Republic of Croatia, to the key relations with some international financial institutions, including the "stand Bay" arrangement with the International Monetary Fund, which I will announce here today in the announcement of budget rebalancing, we are successfully bringing the end of the "stand Bay" arrangement with the IMF and we are likely to move to another, higher, more quality phase. I would stop briefly on these last facts because we have just received certificates from them both in the country, so both in Croatia and abroad. So when we talk about economic policy, we cannot bypass the favourable macro-economic indicators that contribute to its successful achievement. If I didn't bother you with the statistical data that I could list and what we often list, I'd only say what's most important and what's definitely confirmed today, which I'm sure will cheer you all up, which is that in the first quarter of this year, the growth of gross domestic product was 6%. And that's something that, since we all know that the cycle, the economic cycle, is always at the beginning of the year, in fact, the most passive thing we can say is that there has been even more progress than it was in the last quarter of 2005 when growth was something like 5.2%. In fact, the following information is extremely important. As early as 2005, we achieved the lowest unemployment rate in the last 7 years of 12.3%. At the beginning of this year, the trend of reducing the number of unemployed continued. Taking into account the trends in industrial production, retail trade, tourism and other macro-economic indicators, it is evident that growth in economic activity continues to lead ultimately to the acceleration of gross domestic product growth throughout 2006 and further positive labour market developments. Will we be able to keep that 6 percent growth of gross domestic product from the first quarter questionable. However, we can be optimistic given the continuation of strong economic activities. Following good macro-economic indicators and favourable economic conditions in the country, and according to the government's top strategic objectives, we decided to make changes and add-on budgets for 2006. Because when we speak, ladies and gentlemen, about economic policy, this government is aware that precisely fiscal policy can play a key, important role in maintaining macro-economic stability and fostering economic growth. Taking into account the structure and state of public finances but, of course, the fiscal achievements achieved by the key fiscal policy definition is precisely fiscal adjustment, or in other words fiscally, reduction of the fiscal deficit. Let us remind ourselves for a moment that in just two years we have shown that we can successfully implement a strong fiscal adjustment that reduced the deficit from 6.2% to gross domestic product in 2003 to 4.1% in 2005. And what I'm going to say again right now and what we're going to see is whether it's going to continue in the other 6 months, in the first 6 months of 2006, the deficit is 2.1 billion kuna, which is twice as much as in the first 6 months of 2005 when it was 4 billion and 300 million kuna. So the deficit in the first six months of this year is two billion and 100 million kuna compared to the first six months of 2005 when it was 4 billion and 300 million kuna. When we only take that data with increased revenues that are about 11.4% for the first 6 months, that's basically why we're going into this budget rebalance. Now, indeed, after such good conditions, which has been achieved really one strong growth and a reduction in deficits and an increase in income, these are the key reasons why we go into budget rebalancing and why we have defined what we have already announced at the government's session that we will also go with the deficit reduction to 3%. It was programmed, planned this year to 3.3% and we believe that we can lower it already today in half of the year and that it will remain that way by the end of the year means 3 whole, to 3% of domestic, gross domestic product, which means that Croatia today when the Parliament adopts this rebalancing that Croatia today meets this important criterion of the European Economic and Monetary Union in the European Union. Thus, the convergence criteria under which countries are subject to the monetary union when other conditions are met. With this procedure, ladies and gentlemen, in just three years, we have doubled the fiscal deficit, which is a major adjustment for the Republic of Croatia, but we can say that it represents such a strong procedure if it were taken up in European frameworks and a major adjustment and for stronger economic countries than it is Croatia. And that is why Croatia is this way, with this step in the best way, preparing itself tomorrow in competition and stronger countries in the European Union. We must bear in mind that this step will also become a clear signal to domestic and foreign investors, that it will become a clear signal to the international community, which carefully and with great care observes the economic effects of Croatia. That Croatia is ready to achieve, first set, define its goal ambitious and then achieve it. And that is the greatest force of this policy, of this government, of this parliamentary majority. The most important thing is that we know how to set a goal, define it, but achieve it. Even before we planned. We were planning on coming to a 3% deficit in 2007. We're coming in mid-2006. And what exactly does fiscal adjustment mean for macroeconomic stability and economic growth? I pointed out earlier that fiscal policy is a key instrument for achieving these goals. And just by further strong reduction of the deficit, fiscal policy proves that it is ready to contribute even more to the country's overall economic picture. When we talk about maintaining macroeconomic stability in Croatia, and I think there is no one among us who would oppose all instruments that achieve the goal of maintaining macroeconomic stability, we can really be happy that since '93, and I remember with that time I was a member of the government when we went with one strong, one economic reform in Valentiæ's government and since 2003 until today, Croatia has managed to retain with all governments, each government has contributed to that macroeconomic stability. There have been different attempts since the depreciation of the kuna. I will not open all the topics that have always been in Croatian society, but we have managed to preserve macroeconomic stability and I believe that this is one of the most important national interests around which there is a great consensus. The state is simply reducing the fiscal deficit with its funding on the domestic market and it is a new factor that we want to bring into this debate slows down and the growth of external debt. In this regard, it is important to note that such a policy has reduced its debt by EUR 600, 650 million from the end of 2004 to the end of March of this year for a period of 15 months. In those 15 months, we reduced the foreign debt when it comes to the state by 650 million euros. I am sure that further reduction of deficits due to the reduced need for its funding will further contribute to the slowdown of the growth of the external debt of the Republic of Croatia and in the next period and to its reduction. It also has a positive impact on economic growth on the state's fiscal policy. This, of course, only results in the structure of the budget, or more effectively directing budget resources into strategically important areas. However, it also does so by reducing the fiscal deficit, opening up more space and available financial resources to the private sector. And the main set of long-term sustainable high economic growth rates is precisely greater private sector participation. The reduction of the fiscal deficit reduces the pressure on the growth of interest rates, thus creating favourable conditions for the growing number and growth of private businesses and business ventures. It is therefore of paramount importance to ensure that the private sector becomes the main generator of economic growth, investments that will contribute to long-term sustainable economic growth and the creation of new and sustainable jobs. And there's something else I want to say at the end. When we and our colleagues from the previous government talked about economic policy at the handover I remember as if it was yesterday, and the time was passing quickly, it was two and a half years ago, we talked about whether the reduction of the fiscal deficit would affect, too, investment in infrastructure. On highways, highway construction and others. Today, with experience of two and a half years, we can say not only that it has not affected but we have succeeded in achieving both goals. Even more dynamic investment in Kalmet when he proposed a five-year highway construction plan then even more came the expression that we have invested more than we have invested in the past four-year period before us, with a reduction in deficits. So more funds in these four years and more kilometers of highways with a deficit reduction. And that's what we said could be achieved. We have achieved this, and today we are proud to be standing here at the pay phone of the Croatian Parliament and say that it was possible to achieve this and that we have achieved it. I don't mention conversations in one, these conversations we've had with our former colleagues in some negative sense. I only mention it because we had different approaches. It has been shown that intensive dynamic infrastructure policy can be conducted, infrastructure building with deficit cuts, and not with its funding deficits. There was a difference between us and the last government. And to conclude, distinguished MPs and representatives of this House, the Government of the Republic of Croatia today proposes not only to change and supplement the 2006 budget, the Government of the Republic of Croatia today proposes an instrument for an economically more stable and powerful Croatia, for a modern European state that will mark high rates of economic growth, greater prosperity for the Croatian people and for all Croatian citizens. And something more detailed about the very proposal to amend and supplement the budget of the finance minister. I thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69553	Thank you. Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69554	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69555	Just a minute. What? Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69556	I don't know if this is an accident by looking at Article 211 of our Rules of Procedure. It is said that the applicant, i.e. the representative of the applicant he designates, is. But in the government's act, only the Prime Minister has been appointed to speak on the budget, not a minister. So I'm asking you to clear it up for us. No, no. We have to stick to the Rules of Procedure. So we have a letter from the government since 3 July 2006, which is said to be the representative who will participate in the work of the Croatian Parliament, the Prime Minister has been appointed. There may be some other memo, but I think we need to respect the Rules of Procedure. ... Yeah, but who? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] All right, let me ask, just an explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69557	My colleague Kovacevic, come on, it's not about any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, it's about reckless reading. Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69558	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Perhaps this budget rebalance raises one question. Why and for the first time in Croatia, it happened that the surplus income did not go alone in expenditures, but that politics and reflections on the management of public finances went in a slightly different direction. So we started to think that what the economy and Croatian citizens created should also be rerouted to start going towards a smaller deficit and that this could be discussed in any way in the same way as this budget so that these indicators presented by the Prime Minister Dr. Sanader could be practically talked about only a few days after the 6-month period. This was to be done by a number of technical assumptions, starting with the establishment of the State Treasury, of the abolition of those hundreds of sub-accounts where the money from the budget users was rained, while at the same time the state had to be in debt to pay some of its expenditures, there is no more. Today, taxpayers' sheep are used for what the day should pay. Today is the day and week's payment plan. Today we know exactly when the funds will be paid and that is why today, several days after the end of 6 months, we can say that in the first 6 months of this year the deficit of the state budget was 2 billion and 100, that the revenues from last year in the first 6 months are higher by 5 billion and 300 million kuna and that this is the reason for the increased revenues of 5 billion 300 or of 11.4 billion why the government decided on this budget proposal. And not to throw our throats into strawberries again, but to go with a conservative approach you saw in the draft budget that we had predicted new such modified revenues, 94 billion 895 million or 899 million more than the original plan. Or if you look at the percent, it's a 7.3% increase. And at the same time, we have a 6-month increase of 11.4%. So if we were the ones who are unreal thinkers, we would simply increase the income side by about 10, 11% and create other opportunities for some of the things that the question is whether, by the end of the year, given the vulnerability of the Croatian economy and certain instabilitys can change. So this is an increase of just 1% of income, an income plan compared to what was scheduled at the 12th month. No matter what in the first six months when the fiscal year is the worst and the weakest, we have an increase in revenue of 11.4%. So we predict an increase of 7.3% or 899 million, and the expenditures of the State budget are estimated at 92, 99.2 billion or 413 million kuna more, or if we look at individual users where practically the increase is the largest. So the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, the water economy is increasing from 54 million kuna, the Ministry of Science 45 million kuna, with the fact that I have to say that here 30 million refers to the performances around outstanding liabilities under the collective contract of the past years. Croatian Institute of Health Insurance or if we look at the Ministry of Health 423 million, the Ministry of Justice 92 million and the Croatian Fund for Development and Employment 103 million on behalf of the commitments created under that former employment action plan. And in this way we came into position, so in this way as regards income and estimated expenditure, we reduce the deficit of the State budget to 1.7%, the units of local self-government remain at 0.3 and the Croatian highways, Croatian and other funds, constitute a deficit of 1% or a total of 3%. However, when it comes to reduced deficits from 3.3 to 3%, it seems a slight decrease. But when we say that it's nominal of 485 million kuna to decrease in the course of the year then you can see how much reduction it is. So 485 million kunas are reducing the deficit of the central state and instead of 4 billion and 785 million is going to be 4 billion and 300 million. Why am I saying that? Because when we also talk about the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget, then you will see that the position on, in fact, the article on borrowing needs is being reduced by 485 million because for this amount, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will need to be less in debt in 2006, so because this amount is being reduced by the deficit and we are now coming to a key issue. Let's go back two or two and a half years, so when you look at the opinions of international financial institutions and what was said about Croatia, which were the two biggest problems in Croatia. The rapid growth of external debt and a very high deficit. You today, in no professional publication, in any professional address in Croatia, nor in any report by the international financial institution when talking about Croatia, no one mentions the problem of deficits anymore. No one. No international financial institution. In no article, there is no problem with the deficit in Croatia today. He's here, he agrees, but no one creates him and sets him up as a problem. And by the fact that the deficit as such has disappeared from some focus debate because significant fiscal adjustments have been made, the normal thing is that external debt remains the only problem and we are aware that it has also shown in recent years. So I want to say again that all governments wanted and to reduce the deficit and slow down the growth of external debt. Without a combined policy, monetary and fiscal policy is practically impossible to do. Because without reducing the fiscal deficit, without reducing consumption it is impossible to speak in today's conditions that only monetary policy and only by monetary policy measures can reduce foreign debt. And that is why I say, regardless of what is the first time, this is extremely important and given the proposal for a new Law on the Croatian National Bank that monetary and fiscal policies act coordinated, because at this point with two or three structural reforms regarding shipbuilding, as regards health, the basic problem of Croatian monetary and fiscal policy is external debt and should be talked about as a problem not as a bauku. Because when it comes to bauku, then it's not solved, but if it stands out as a problem, and if it stands out as a goal, it can be solved as such. Thus, the government's contribution to this budget rebalance, by reducing deficits, is a fiscal contribution to the slowdown of external debt growth. I know that this kind of budget proposal and in the debate itself will probably be a lot, so there's no money for this, so there's no money for it, but it's not the sense of fiscal policy or public finances to spend as much as anyone wants but to spend as much as possible and for certain things that can't be financed, and that's exactly what I want to say in the end. If such a way of planning and budget financing could have been achieved at all, along with fiscal discipline, strict public finances management, a number of structural reforms that have been made and will need to be made in the future to go to an even lower deficit, because how much it costs us to deficits every year, colleagues and colleagues look at the position of interest in the state budget for five years and you will see how that position grows and that position grows solely because of the deficit. So when you look at how much our debt costs from the previous two years, just look at how much the spending side of interest increases in the state budget. That's the cost of the deficit. And so, the normal thing is, if we reduce the cost of that deficit, we open up the possibility that these money can be channeled into some development projects, into science or anything else. If we don't do that, we'll spend our money paying the deficit. All practically newly created value no matter how much we grow in gross domestic product we will spend on interest, and then we will not have money for education, health care, or wages, and that is why this government is seeking fiscal policy, so that interest costs are reduced, debt expenditures are reduced and these money is rerouted to development and scientific projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69559	Thank you. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget, President of the Committee, Honored Representative of Šima Prtnječa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69560	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Introducing that I do not list everything, in short, this is the Budget Rebalancing Report and with a number of budget funds. At the 52nd session held on 29 June, the Finance Committee considered these reports as a parent working body. Of course always as it goes, the first introductory representative of the Croatian Government pointed out that the main reasons for the changes and addition of the State budget for 2006 are the rapid growth of economic activities, then the reduction of the general government deficit, Croatia's fiscal adjustment follows the trend of reducing the fiscal deficits of EU countries, thus preparing to meet the master criteria for entry into the European Monetary Union related to the level of the fiscal deficit. The proposed rebalance of the state budget plans to reduce the fiscal deficit to 3%, making Croatia meet the criteria already this year. Under the new plan for 2006, the total budget deficit is 94 billion 895 million, original plan 93, etc. which was an increase of 899 million, i.e. revenue, based on the planned economic growth of 4.4% and the nominal growth of 7.9% compared to the previous year as well as the previous achievement of revenues in 2006. The expenditures and expenditures are increasing... 109 billion, about 109 to 110, 100 kuna, which is an increase of 413 million kuna. [[You don't understand.]] It is proposed to increase the operating expenditure of EUR 697,9 million in relation to the original plan by increasing the largest part in the amount of €483 million in respect of compensation to citizens and households on the basis of insurance and other benefits, primary and hospital health care costs and vaccines and then on the aid of €143.5 million. Expenses for 142.8 million kuna employees are increasing. The subsidies under the new plan in 2006 are the planned amount of 121.3 million kuna or 2.3% points higher than the original plan. Of which 115, 8 million kuna refers to subsidies to farmers, craftsmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Other expenditures are reduced... by 118 million kuna, and the largest reduction is on capital donations that are a reduction of 78 million kuna and on capital aid to banks and other financial... and companies outside the public sector, which are down by 31 million kuna. [[You don't understand.]] Costs for the purchase of non-financial assets in 2005 amounted to a billion 829 million kuna, and are now planned to amount to 2, 274 million, which is an increase of 24.3%. The cost of financial assets and loan payments has been reduced by 18.1 million kuna. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament fully supported the proposal to amend and supplement the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006 and decided unanimously to propose to the Parliament the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006, as well as the following decisions. Decisions on granting consent to the amendments and addition of the financial plan of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance for 2006, Decision on the granting of consent to the amending and supplementing of the financial plan of the Croatian Employment Institute for 2006, Decision on the granting of consent to the amending and supplementing of the financial plan of the Croatian Waters for 2006, Decision on the granting of consent for the modification and addition of the financial plan of the Croatian highways for 2006, Decision on the granting of appropriations for 2006 of the State Agency for the provision of savings roles and resolution of banks for 2006 and the end of the Decision on granting consent to the amendment and addition of the financial plan of the Fund for the Protection of the Environment and Energy and the year will be considered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69561	Thank you. The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, a respected representative, President Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69562	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. At its 41st session held on 4 July, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal to amend and supplement the state budget. The Committee held a debate on this proposal as an interested body. Following the opening statement of the Ministry of Finance's representative, the debate covers that part of the proposal relating to the part-time work of the Committee. In principle, most members supported the adoption of amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006, since the funds intended for agriculture were increased in absolute terms. However, this increase, held by some members of the Committee, in doubt if the percentage of funds spent at the position of the stimulating agricultural production in the first 5 months of this year is cca 77% of the total. In this respect, the obligation to subsidise wheat at cca 150 thousand hectares and the obligation at monthly level for the payment of milk is indicated at approximately 50 million kuna. If this is proposed by the new Act amending and supplementing the Law on State support in agriculture, forestry and fisheries, then the State budget for 2006 will not be sufficient only for that part of the expenditure. It is also regrettable that substantial reductions in resources are intended to subsidise farmers, craftsmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in the name of aid from the SAPARD programme. On the basis of the debate, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry of the Croatian Parliament decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to support the amendments and additions to the State budget for 2006. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69563	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Zgrebec, please. ... I didn't offer for clubs, I don't have, I'm not offering for clubs. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Clubs are supposed to sign up. No one checked in. ... And now you're picking up? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay. On behalf of the SDP Club, respected representative Zeljka Antunovic. ... Here you go, please. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] What? Wait a minute. Here you go. Mrs. Antunovic, please. Whoever reported it first, that's what this table decides when...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69564	No problem, Mr. President, we're happy to say everything we have because we're not even talking about TV cameras that aren't on yet. It's because we feel a serious need to make our contribution to the objective representation of the state of finances. In fact, from the opening statements and at first glance, it could be concluded that in this rebalancing of the State budget, there would be no god-knows-what to say. It seems to me that this is another example of how paper suffers everything, but also selective facts and data can also endure everything and significantly distort or embellish in this case a picture that is not really like that at all. In fact, some facts that significantly alter the budgetary achievements of alleged accelerated economic activities and the growth of the gross social product fall into the eyes by reading the budget itself. When we talk about the superficial budget reading, then I don't mean that we MPs are doing our job superficially, but I don't know by what time I'm warning on behalf of this government's SDP that you left us for 24 hours to analyze the rebalancing process, certainly including the whole day of yesterday's work that MPs couldn't do in reading the rebalancing and analysis of the data presented. But unfortunately, between 8 and 30 and 21 hours they had to do equally or at least equally important jobs in this congregation. However, the surface in the preparation of the reasoning that we have received and which we see before us on these full 4 and a half pages indicates total responsibility and unfortunately the surface area of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which refers to the superficial analysis of the movement of indicators of the current year and points to the fundamental shortcomings of this budget rebalancing. This document is only partially transparent. A little while ago we heard and I hope it went into the phonogram that the growth of gross social product in the first quarter of this year is 6%. Well, from this so-called fact, it is obvious that it is exclusively for propaganda purposes, the question arises, if so, and if it is known that the first quarter is the least active quarter in the economy, why is the Government in the Budget proposal based on its planned and projected growth of 4.4% for the whole year? Or is it because this 6% fact is explained that the reason is incorrect or is the government preparing another budget rebalance by the end of this year? This is intended to point to a surface and selective approach in showing facts. The budget rebalance is not based on an objective analysis of both positive and negative trends. He doesn't really take into account the real problems of state finances like that. the payment of the due commitments and what is the most tragic colleague and colleague he is, in fact, an incorrect display of the real expenditure of the state. It would be logical to wonder why the government engages in such manipulations? The answer for us in the SDP is very simple. It would fall into the water all of the above reasons for amending and supplementing the budget, as would the complete propaganda campaign, which should turn under average and insufficient results and unfulfilled government promises into fantastic successes and once again, I do not know which way to deceive public data in the budget. Similar to the way you have deceived the public for years in the case of Požega County, you've been covering up the real situation because HDZ was in power there, and today, from the real problems that have come out of sight with your hands washed and you're transferring these problems to the back of the citizens of the county. You think that's how you're going to do with the state budget, state spending and state spending that's bigger than what you're showing and that would then tear down the fact of a supposedly great deficit of 3% of gross social product. It really sounds nice when you announce that the general government deficit is reduced and that it is planned at 3% level, but you lack something in that calculation. At least 1.2 billion, or 1.2 billion, in total, 2 and a half billion paid, which will be paid by the end of this year to compensate pensioners for the stolen pensions of the HDZ authorities of the 1990s. You'll probably answer me if I'm wrong because that payment went from a retirement fund that has nothing to do with the budget and that has its own property, but unfortunately I'm right because the fund is still today, and it's probably gonna be that way by the end of the year, and the first tranche of the compensation paid off by the Post Office Bank from a loan secured by the government debtor. And what is this government debt rather than securities, which is different than what is actually the obligation of a state carried out by someone else, which is not shown in this budget. There is no word on this budget. So if you've already come up with some kind of stunt where the state has taken the obligation to pay two and a half billion in damages this year, and you don't show it in government accounts, then you can't even credit for that payment to yourself. Maybe it's better if they're taken over by the Post Office. Let's call it a real name this time. This is, in fact, a clear increase in the deficit of the central state which is not demonstrated in this budget rebalancing. If 2 and a half billion per year were added to this amount, for example. and six and a half billion earned, and unpaid bills in the health care of the circus 1 billion earned, and unpaid bills for highway work would show the budget deficit in a double-digit figure at least. How and if you're going to solve the growing problem of non-payment to rebalancing suppliers or mentions. It is true that it cannot be spent as much as anyone will but as much as it can be said earlier by Minister Shuker, however, as practiced by the Croatian government. Unfortunately, consumers in public procurement are getting high, and when a cheaper offer suddenly appears in the competition, even cheaper offers are being annulled for imaginary reasons, declaring them invalid or uncompetitive without reference, or looking for other formal reasons such as. in the case of a public tender for the construction of the Lesca hydropower plant. Allow me to deal with these unpaid health bills as well. This rebalancing reduces the incomes of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and really amazes the government's ignoring debts of hospitals that have been created by the treatment of patients and because the government has not implemented the restructuring of the health system for the third year and does nothing to reduce costs. Does that mean you'll take those six and a half billion kuna from patients by introducing new bolts? Don't say anything about it in the budget. How many facts about large outstanding debts affect the slowdown of economic activity, and how many economic operators will you lead to bankruptcy and liquidation, and how many people will lose their jobs? These are open questions that cannot be answered in this budget. The consequences of your budgetary policy will obviously and unfortunately have to be addressed by some future government because it is the only one you will leave behind. Allow me a few words about external debt. In 2003, you took over a country that was in charge abroad of 19 billion euros, and today we owe 27 billion euros. In two years of your term, you've been out in debt for 8 billion euros, almost as a coalition government throughout the term of office. Although it is in itself a fact that changes the image of your government as a success in relation to the former and turns you into a failed government that is not your greatest sin. It is your sin to borrow and spend money without having nothing left behind. On the basis of the debts behind the last government, more than 400km of highways, liquid state, minor inflation, completed reconstruction and average GDP growth between 5% and 6% remained. In the SDP, we do not accept your rate of growth of 4.4% as stated in the budget, realistically as a commendable fact and as an acceptable fact, because in the third year of your term you have not yet reached 5.3% since 2003. On this basis, you cannot talk about the acceleration of economic activity, especially as you keep out the data on the one-off growth of the trading deficit for the first 3 months of 2006 at $2.4 billion. For comparison in the first 3 months of 2000, the same deficit was only $590 million. So it's about four times as much today. In this way, imports feed our internal consumption and economic growth, and it is difficult to say that the growth of the gross social product is due to real economic activities. The government's planned growth in budget revenues explains the increased efficiency of the state, tax administration and the incursion of the gray economy. And that is the thesis which unfortunately does not have its foundation in the budget because the nominal growth of the gross social product is identical to the growth of tax revenues, which shows exactly the opposite. You haven't even touched the gray economy. The increased revenues stem from the increased growth of the gross social product, however insufficient it is. Because of growing corruption, it is also likely that the grey economy is on the rise, although there are no exact indicators about it. On how effective or inefficient and polluted the state is by mismanagement and the best-choiced fact of abandonment of planned projects as well as a reduction in the amount of aid from the European Union funds is seen in the budget itself. When the Government promotes huge successes in the process of accession and adaptation to the European Union, it is regrettable that the same government is unable to ensure that the planned 580 million kuna is exploited, thus creating a basis for withdrawing the new and larger amounts that this country needs more than it needs. There, colleagues and colleagues, for all the reasons mentioned, as well as those discussed in their discussions, my fellow SDP will vote against the proposed budget rebalancing and the SDP will continue to use all the opportunities to point out the manipulations you are serving to become and be an exclusively propaganda asset in the role of public deception and falsely raising the ruling party's political ratings.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69565	Thank you. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. First respected representative of Andri Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69566	Thank you very much. After this shocking presentation, I can conclude that there were a dozen incorrect allegations probably because a respected colleague was reading the 2002 budget rebalance. Namely, it is not true that the data in the budget are non-transparent. They are a faithful copy of the Croatian Statistics Institute. Therefore, under the control of domestic and international experts. Secondly, it is not true that 6 billion kunas arrived in health care but 487 million over 90 days for all hospitals together and about 400 million for medicines over 90 days. It is not true that HZZ is reducing revenues but is increasing by 440 million kuna with this rebalancing. And the lack of understanding of the economy is shown by the incorrect assumption that increased income is not the result of the fight against the grey economy but of an increased tax inflow, and that is exactly what the government has done, to convert the grey economy into paying taxes that have led to increased income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69567	Thank you. Second Amendment, Honored Representative Ivan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69568	So here I am correcting my colleague Antunovic. If this was a football game, I'm sure her debate would have been annulled because the material violation of the rules didn't exactly read what it says. The budget says HZZO's revenues are increasing by 440 million and she said they're shrinking which doesn't match the truth. I think it's a material injury.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69569	Third correction by respected representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69570	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, counterpart Antunovic said the budget lacks an accurate view of expenditure, which is not true because transparency and income and expenditure and the introduction of order into finance are the essence of this effective government policy. But I would like to remind you of the statement by former Prime Minister Ivica Racan, who said when it came to the State Audit findings for 2003, I quote "Every government has a maneuvering space whether or not they will book expenditures in one year or two.". This government doesn't work like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69571	Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69572	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am sorry that Ms. Antunovic's distinguished representative left, but since she spoke on behalf of the SDP Club, so allow me a few corrections or observation of the Croatian Government on what was said for reasons why if the information of the Croatian Statistics Institute is not correct then let's cancel the Statistics Office and let's not trust him. The Bureau of Statistics announced on Friday that economic growth in the first three months is 6%. That's what the State Statistics Office published on Friday. Now, if, as Mrs Antunovic and the SDP Club tell you, I guarantee you that 230 million credits for the completion of the second stage of the highway from the European Investment Bank, the Republic of Croatia would not get under the conditions under which Member States of the European Union receive it, I guarantee it. It is a bank owned by Member States of the European Union. The members of the European Union, their bank would not give such a loan to Croatia under such conditions that it is such a disastrous situation in Croatia. People from international financial institutions would not express themselves positively. We've never run away from the problems we have. Croatia wouldn't have this kind of credit rating. Because if anything is an indication of the state of your country, it's your credit rating and interest rate because there's no profit, capital has no mercy. He goes where he can make a profit and that's the truth. And I said when I was talking about budgeting and I'm going to say it today. Why is Croatia badly placed when it comes to some polls? It is precisely because of these unargumented statements when surveyors come from outside and when such indicators are given none of these allegations that Mrs Antunovic said were not justified. And now I'm going to say one by one. The incorrect representation of the expenditures of the ladies and gentlemen of the SDP Club are all the ariers in the deficit, and these 900 million of whom he spoke of fellow Hebrang in health care are the ariers, are in the deficit and are contained in the deficit. Požega County. I'm sorry to have to say this, but unfortunately neither does the State Audit Office anymore know how to do its job because the findings of the State Audit Office on the status of the commitments reached are not diametrically opposite, but can be spoken times a hundred or divided by a hundred compared to what it says in the SDP's interpretation. But obviously when we don't fit the State Audit Office, but for political purposes without arguments, we can say that, too. Retired debt. It is clear that the pension debt will be financed from the privatisation of HT. The revenues from privatisation are not revenues from the budget, they are revenues below the line. Therefore, I see no reason why the return of debt to pensioners would now be a deficit in 2006. Finally, the treatment of pension debt and its deficit status has been consulted by the European Commission to all international institutions. And it's not good to talk. When there are no arguments "Yes, you have paid back the debt, but you have not put it in a deficit and then you boast about the repayment of that debt?" So because we found a model of how to bring it back for God's sake. Why didn't you do it? Indifference. One story that retreats in Croatia that simply isn't true. It's not true. It has been said that there are six and a half billion dollars in the health care sector and unpaid claims. So I think I don't know where your data's coming from? It's something that SDP has its own private accounting, so it has such indicators. The government of the Republic of Croatia does not have that. It's not there. No more funding in a way, and this was the case in the town of Požega, as well as in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. To arrange reconstruction works and to make credit to a contractor, and the state issued bonds that it would pay those loans and that loan that year was not a deficit. He was the case of a billion and a half kuna credits that were not shown in cost, and today it is said to be something easy. Well, you know who made it up and that's how it worked. A billion kunas were not paid for. The government issued the bonds and then, and contracts with HABOR were made by contractors for reasons that the expenditure would not go into deficit the year it was made. So economic growth, you see economic growth, and the effects of economic growth can be exploited differently. I would be pleased that when economic growth in the Republic of Croatia was that the effects of this economic, during your government 5%, that the effects of this economic growth were used to reduce deficits. But the situation is what it is. To say that increased revenues are not the result of taking part of the gray economy, so you have gentlemen, in fact, the research work of the Institute of Economics around the gray economy. It was completed in 2003, and is now being done in 2004 and you will see the impact and share of certain economic branches in the gray economy. And during your government and for these governments. And I simply deny all the results without arguments I don't think it's good because I say it independently about, and belonging to a party and this kind of and that kind of thing I want to say that the financial market, international financial institutions are the best indicator. Two weeks ago, I had the honour and pleasure of hearing from the International Monetary Fund's chief director commendation for what Croatia did, and the SDP club regrets what I can do for them. [[Applause.]] [[- Good job.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69573	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69574	Thank you very much. It is an incorrect finding that the Republic of Croatia is well-ranked in the world's financial institutions and that it is badly ranked because of Mrs. Zeljke Antunovic's statement. Minister Shuker said both. Some country can either be well or misranked. If she is misranked as Minister Schuker says then it is not certainly because of statements by Zeljka Antunovic or any opposition representative. This is exclusively the result of government and state work.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69575	Order! This finding by counterpart Stazic that, correcting the incorrect allegations that Minister Suker said Croatia was ranked as it was ranked because of a statement by counterpart Antunovic, the minister did not say so. He said something else. He said something else. Yeah. The second correction by the respected representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69576	It's 100 times a lie, and it's gonna be true. It looks like a password. Incorrect quote [[The intruders don't understand.]] The incorrect quote of Minister Shuker is: "Our government has found a model to repay the debt. [[The intruders don't understand.]] [[Intruder: Peace!]] Why didn't you?" The former government found a model. In the years, she paid 3 billion kunas to pensioners through a budget that was completely transparent. It's a completely incorrect quote, and the repayment of debt or compensation because you don't call it that either, it's completely hidden from the citizens of this country this time. [[/Intruder: Hidden?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69577	Please refrain from those comments lies, lies. Dear Representative Slavko Linic. Next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69578	I am correcting the incorrect allegations by Mr. Minister that he is paying a billion and 200 million first "transition" and the future payment at 12 months of a billion and 200 million due to the agreement with international institutions is not included in the budget and is not considered a deficit. And one payment, and the next payment is payments in this year for which the state issued the document, the financial document. On the basis of this document, it should be in the budget and on the basis of this, if it is not covered, it is called the deficit. And no deal with international institutions can be made I would say the rule of accounting in the budget. The issued paper of the state of Croatia should have been registered and then shown the actual deficit.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69579	Thank you. Dear Representative Damir Cain on behalf of the IDS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69580	The Honorable President and the Honorable Mr. Minister, the Honorable Mr. MPs, means what is the purpose of this rebalancing? First, these thank-yous that everything is so good that Croatia can now reduce the deficit. First, in 2004, the growth of gross social product was slower than in 2002 and 2003. Secondly, in 2005, it also characterised the slowdown of wage growth but also pensions, which grew by only 1.7% in 2005 and 3.6% in 2003. It's the same thing with your pensions. This will say that in 2005, it was harder to live than it was in 2004 than it was in 2003. Finally, inflation was 4.1% in 2005, consumer price growth was also not to count further. What saves personal spending from growing is clearly personal loans but where will these credits grow when on the one hand citizens and on the other hand the government is in charge as old Greece? Third, from $10 billion in 1999 to $33 billion. By the end of next year with today's 83.5% gross social product will exceed 86% and reach $40 billion. Now, someone might tell this controversy that's being led here to pay off the pensioners, but let's be serious. It's not God knows what kind of problem, because it's a modest amount of six billion kuna in two years or eight anyway. Second because a billion and two hundred million kuna loans were taken for the first war and the third since it will be returned as just before the minister, Mr Shuker announced by selling the most valuable Croatian companies or better said by selling the Croatian Telecom. The problem with the pensioners is so-called. New pensioners. Why am I saying that? First, 899 million kuna means an increase in budget revenue. The expenditures are seeing 430 million kuna. As a result, the deficit from 3.3% should be reduced to 3%, and this 479 million kuna reserve in my court will be enough, for example, for Christmas pensioners of 300 kuna and for perhaps another small intervention when the next time it comes to or before the parliamentary representatives rebalancing that budget. But here we have the right to talk clearly about expenditures, and here again I do not see that the position of the pensioner is changing, i.e.. new pensioners whose real pension is 800 kn lower than those aged or 600 kn lower than their total average. It is also true that we should spend something to create, and so much should everyone agree that best social policy, best labour policy, and I guess that's also the best development policy, full-time employment policy. I want to say the next one and pull one parallel. Here's Istrian, Primorje-Gorski County. On this day, Istria has about 5650 unemployed, on the other hand, it is clear that not everyone can waitress and work in tourism. He's looking for about 6,000 seasons. The coastal-goran County has 17500 unemployed. Exports to Istria County amounted to over a billion dollars last year in Primorje-Goranje 450m dollars. What do I mean by that? First, the state budget rises by 899 million kuna. How many, on the other hand, respected gentlemen, are the local self-government budgets growing? The budgets of Croatian counties, Croatian cities, etc. Would it be normal for these funds to be directed towards bankrupted counties instead of to the Croatian budget? That's the point now. Who's talking about this country about the need for decentralisation? I'm glad to see here that someone here in Istria, Rijeka, Dubrovnik, is asking the Government to decentralize the system so that they can take care of themselves. Because with 66 million kuna, the Slavonian, Požega County did not break down in 2006 but ended long ago, long ago, as it did when it was created. It is absolutely necessary to take care of each of the workers further, but also of everyone who lives on their work whether it is a small trader, whether it is a small craftsman, craftsman, small entrepreneur, etc., people who work in these personal activities, an independent farmer, and sometimes I claim that even worse than the worker because they match all their assets except clearly those tycoons, and these people are also some victim of the system because the whole tax and state repression breaks right on them, and without them there are no workers, there is no development, there is no future. And I'll tell you one more thing. In Istria, out of 100,000 employees almost 45% were employed by the total population. Each quarter means more than 25,000 people are in that position that they're acting on their own. If we add that family business to each other. So this 899 million kuna is going to be returned through decentralisation to local self-government so that they enter with these means, as the Government suggests, in monitoring general, or clinical hospitals, in monitoring the development of science and agriculture. This rebalancing suggests 423 million kuna for HZZO, meaning for this Health Fund. 103 million kuna for the Development Fund, 45 million kuna to the Ministry of Science, 54 million kuna to the Ministry of Agriculture, 92 million kuna to the Ministry of Justice. What's gonna happen to that? Means if not for health care, that's fine. When it comes to development, agriculture, science, I say it will be distributed again by party perception as it seems so far. I'll give it to mine. I won't give it to others. If I'm wrong, I'm right. It's been 15 years, so it's going to be now. With the rebalancing we reach 94.9 billion kuna, not counting the budgets of the Croatian highway, water, Croatian roads etc. So that would be about $160 billion somewhere. However, which is worth to you on the other hand when 28 billion kuna is intended immediately for pensions, 4 billion kuna for defenders, 15 or 16 billion kuna for health care, and we are already coming here over 50, to over 50 billion kuna for the refund of loans. In 2005, it was secured in the budget of $12.7 billion. In 2006, about 14 billion kunas without these billions of two hundred million kunas for the first war on pensioners, welfare, wages, etc. That's 90% of the budget expenditure. So only 8.9 billion kuna stays in this country for capital investment with roads, that's about 15 billion kuna. However, this policy, or state, is somehow to blame, and should be when it does not decentralize the country. And why won't they? Because this is why the Government and the environments where the rulings are not or are not in power, so when that is not enough, that is how this law goes further into the cleavage of municipalities and no one can say in this country gentlemen in Croatia we have 560 which municipalities or 70 cities, county and where it simply leads to this policy. On the other hand, I am pleased to provide additional funding to the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, 423 million kuna. But we, on the other hand, are gentlemen who have all warned there before the adoption of the budget that the health care system simply will not be able to manage with less resources than it was secured in 2005. Somebody's gonna say we weren't jerks when we warned 'cause it was clear it wouldn't hold. Then what's with all the haughtiness? Should the system collapse to begin talking about it? How can our counties with 100 to 200 million kuna care for general hospitals that require 10, 20, 30% more than their home counties' budgets? From Istria, Zadar, I don't know the Varazdin Mountains, Međimurska etc. But what's the point? This rebalancing is also, I don't know, I don't think Mrs. Antunovic has said a kind of small deception. And again you will be burdened when this health care is primarily transferred to counties that participate in the state distribution of money with less than 25%, the state 86%, the City of Zagreb cca 7, and these 550, 60 I don't even know how many local self-government with about 5%. Why isn't what you're doing good? Health is going, I repeat 423 million kunas, justice for employees, I don't know why people need to be further employed there when they're chronically freed by murderers, rapists and drug addicts. I've just read that they were released from prison by two drug dealers who tried to bring 10 tons of marijuana into the country, 10 tons of marijuana. I don't know, I guess 50 would keep them, but 10 tons, no. So we give them another 92 million kuna, all right, let them work. For employment there are 103 million kunas, for science 45, for agriculture 54 million kunas. This means that the total growth of revenue in these portfolios is 717 million kuna, but the difference of up to 430 million kunas total increase in expenditures is a steady reduction in the budget of other users. No more than 197 million kuna, what is almost incredible to the Ministry of Health and Social Care. But I recognise the transfer of funds significantly to the Croatian Health Insurance Institute means clean health care. But I don't understand now, Minister Ljubicic, why he agreed to reduce that 197 million kuna in his ministry. And there's a question of whether or not it's going to cut the sociale. By 90 million kuna, the economy ministry's budget has been reduced. For the 54.5 million kunas to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence 40 million kunas, and the one for environmental protection 24 million kunas. VAT revenues are rising from $33.9 billion to $44.8 billion, a profit tax from 4 billion to 4 and a half billion, but income taxes fall from 3 billion 448 million to 3 billion 324 million kuna. Well, it's no wonder that then the 2005 wages from 2004 rose to modest ones, someone would say embarrassing ones, however, only 1.7% or 60% less paid in 2005 than in 2004 when they grew at 3.6%. So, the more you get pulled out of the company, the less you get paid, and then everyone gets hurt. And most of all, it's clear that those who are the weakest, the pensioners. Less excise duties from 8 billion 677 million kuna go to 8 billion 579 billion kuna, which also shows that people are harder to live, less drive, less, under quotes enjoy some good ones. You still took us, or introduced these 0.0 proms, so people clearly and less drink, and they spent what they had. I won't talk about economic data. However, I would stress the debt budget, 2005. $12.7 billion, 1.7 billion, 2006. 14 billion kuna. I claim in 2007 there will be 16 billion kunas. And we will make this clear by selling public companies, and we may be approaching this debt crisis, because the question is that Croatia will come to foreign debt service, or imports. Imports are 18 billion cooks, foreign debt should be paid back at $6 billion a year. With 8 to 9 billion dollars in exports, 7 billion dollars in tourism, $1 billion in credits, $1 billion in loans, $5.6 billion in loans, we just come in a pinch and only a blind man doesn't see it, and we don't want to realize that this country can only run relevant capital. I guess this rebalancing thing, I sincerely hope it puts out a fire in HZZ, but nothing's solved. I agree that it is better for the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, the Ministry of Agriculture than for example the military of POAs etc.. It's better to give it to the Development Fund than the Foreign Ministry, but this can only be supported by the one who supported the budget. The IDS budget hasn't been voted in, so we're going to be held back at the very least. The solution is one thing to rebalance, decentralize the country and put emphasis first and foremost on pensions and arnias of 400, 500 thousand new pensioners, as well as try to resuscitate this health care, not to re-emerge in 6 months to transfer all the burden to Croatian counties. Because under that burden, it's just going to sink.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69581	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69582	Thank you very much. A respected colleague probably said by mistake that the health ministry had been taken over by 197 million and that this would reduce social care financing. That's not true. Social care received an additional 53 million and 24 000 in the Ministry of Health with this budget. So 53 million more for social care, not less. The rest of the 197 million is actually a change of dynamics in investment. For those investments that are late due to late authorisation, etc., but they will not be abolished because of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69583	The HDZ representative club, the respected representative of Šima Prtnječa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69584	Here, we're here to give everyone their views, their grades, and then depending on the arguments that we can in this way convince or not convince the public. Since different doubts are being raised here right now, and probably throughout the debate in the truthfulness and regularity of the data that are being presented I will use for my argument, directly using the CNB bulletin issued a few days ago for June this year. According to this, the data they officially publish and some data, especially about gross national income, gross social product or national income, which the Croatian Chamber of Commerce has published these days. And some other indicators inside that. So he'd try to avoid these traps over possible interpretations of not official data, but private, which are used to justify the presentation of his own views, or party views. Here, in this regard, these data, of course, with this budgetary data that we use from the Ministry of Finance in that second section, which is about revenue and expenditure, or receipts, are the reasons for the need to change the budget, i.e. the rebalancing this year. So that's the data that's official data for us from HDZ, and they're the basis for our debate. The contribution also to this debate, and I will briefly remind you of some data from last week's debate that we had here, because it is convenient, in a short time we discussed last week and the report on the budget for the whole fiscal year, the previous year, and the report by the CNB which also provides certain movements and can serve as a convenient link or transmission between that year's movements because and then some developments were highlighted at the beginning of this year and now through this processed data which has been published here, and I say there is no official data except this budget section with 30 or 31 June. This introduction will briefly remind me of macroeconomic developments in the world, macroeconomic developments in Croatia as a fundamental basis for assessing the continuation of economic activity in Croatia, thereby demand on the domestic market and that other part of demand on the foreign market, which does not affect the increase of gross national income in Croatia, of course, through all those economic categories that are being expressed. I point out once again that the main Croatian foreign trade partners are mainly European countries, and this year we have a particularly high growth and exports in the first six months, so the activity is also the imported inflation works in Italy, Germany and Switzerland. Germany is very important because last week's data, and now I point out, we had the lowest growth rate in last year in Europe. This significantly points to then those negative relations that we thus achieve through reduced demand in that segment. The growth in last year's economy in Europe, as the gross social product was at 1.3%. The data from this year for these few months processed show about reviving economic activity at a rate of about 2%, which means precisely through these positive trends that increased exports to Italy, Germany and Switzerland can also point to an increase in production in that part and in that second part of demand that is then being withdrawn, of course later we will also see through the export rate in these six months that we positively achieve. I point out once again that here is six months from now, and the rate of growth of social gross product in the world economy in the last year was about 4.8%, and this year the trends turn around, and the world's largest growth is made by the economy of China and Russia. And why I point out that we are now going to see through indicators in economic exchange, somewhere in China at a rate of 99 that points to overheated growth and mandatory measures to reduce economic activity and Russia, which makes a rise of about 6, 7, 6.7% to me. And why are they important to each other? Just because in these six months, Croatia is most importing from the two countries? What's he importing? Energies. And how the price of energy through oil and all those other energies and prices of basic production, that is, the production price then makes the biggest negative impact on inflation and, of course, on imports through, in Croatia through the trade in goods from these two countries. Here are the reasons for such a macroeconomic environment that significantly influence and determine inflation and growth, of course, in Croatia, because then there is a trade in goods. Through the economic indicators that we have already heard here, and in part I will repeat them only for those we consider to be in the HDZ Club that they should be highlighted once again and again, that is this assessment of the increase, we have only three months' gross social product in Croatia in three months' time, official tendencies in six months' time are assuming it is somewhere estimated to be about 4.5% or 4.6 or 4.4, which is now impossible to calculate, but estimates say it will move in that direction. What results from this social gross product? I simply show the trend of continuing to grow, the continuation of production growth although in this first stage especially in the first quarter shows always the trend of falling, it is actually the sea season when it has the worst growth and impact during the year, but therefore these seasonal fluctuations are being removed later during the summer, which is exactly the period in which we have now stepped down. Here's such a trend in the economy, in the gross social product in the economy, let me, however, let it be so that I don't present my flat-rate estimates as it likes to say, to read the official quote of the CNB of this report a few days ago on these trends, and then I'll briefly comment on how much that time allows, and for the first six, or six, half-years ago, and it says so. Available monthly indicators for the first quarter of 2006 indicate a continuation of strong growth in economic activity. Physical indicators of growth in industry, trade, construction as well as retail trade indicators suggest a simultaneous strengthening of domestic and foreign demand. It is actually a finding from the official report of the CNB which confirms part of what I have already stated in the interpretation of the macroeconomic policy of the external and domestic and this second part of the continuing trends in production, demand, transport and the structure that we have within it. I'll brief a few of the indicators that point to that. It is said in some ways that the stabilised industrial production and that in this time of these six months shows a slight decline compared to the end of the year, this is a negative impact by the first quarter of the six-month report, and already in these three months shows a rise in positive movements. In particular, it is pointed out that stronger production of permanent consumer goods is growing, which then tells me that the employment of those other economic effects has increased, with a slightly reduced growth in the sustained, i.e. consumer consumption, I apologize. However, what also negatively affects the external trade exchange, i.e. the debt in these six months, continues to grow heavily in debt by banks. But from that, if you can say the joyous second trend, that in these six months, almost a balanced balance of funds is the economy, i.e. entrepreneurs and citizens. The rate is about 25 percent, which means that for the first time a balance is achieved, and then through this detail that there is an increase in economic activity because it is a placement in the economy that is then, and we see from this data before, investing in permanent consumer goods and through this way through investment and development of the wolf forward. It should also be pointed out that the retail trade is growing we remember last week 2.2% in the last year already somewhere at 3.7%, which means that these data through demand are not a mere story but an increase in personal consumption and an increase in consumption which then causes an increase of of course production beyond that. Of course we're talking about the annual level. With exports in the last 6 months, what is important for domestic production, these 6 months, exports are growing at a rate of 26.3, approximately 26 percent, and imports are 25. Here you can see the trend in these six months that we have a faster export rate again. However, there should be no overly optimistic but no pessimistic at all. Why? So this positive influence now has shipbuilding. However, also in the increase in imports, I have already pointed out that the increase in the so-called imported so-called so-called so-called imports was increasing. inflation, and in the second part of the increase in imports, the further impact of oil, trade in goods and these production prices affecting our economy. In the banks' duties, they are almost dominantly in foreign debt this year, so that the country is actually still stagnating in the responsibilities and in the growth of external debt, but that is why the strong increase in bank debt is out there. And allocation, of course, of the domestic market. There are indicators that we use to explain the reasons for domestic demand and domestic production, and now a few data just as an indirect response, several indicators that indicate the current balance of payments deficit. These are the data that indicate, no, they're not, they're not, they're not, they're not, they're not, they're not, they're not, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're not, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're not, they're not, they're not, they're not, they're, they're, they're, they're, The reduction trend occurred last year, but this year's deficit is again stabilising. As the gross social product grew, we heard a flat-rate, totally flat-rate assessment of what's going on. Here, this is the movement of gross social product from 2000 to today's 6 months covered by that data. It's official data from the Chamber of Commerce, the latest reports. So, of course, it's about the positive trends that then point to the stability of society, which is important to all of us sitting here, as well as to the citizens. Here, using all these indicators we determine, we eventually move on to the reasons for this rebalancing. We find that once again through these fundamental indicators unemployment continues to fall. Which means, it points to the trend that we have already characterised as the lowest in recent years, it seems to me, 6 years, but only following inflows and more significant increases in both gross social product and employment and other effects, and demand, consumption and the rest of the tourist season, which is partly due to the football championship now slightly reduced, but in these days it is absolutely growing and we believe that it will have an extremely significant impact, not as we said that around 9 billion in the last year, we expect an increased impact of this inflow in this year. And that inflow is then used for the treatment of goods-negative practices in the exchange of goods that have been achieved abroad. Thus, together, both indicators point to a stronger trend and stabilising economic opportunities in the country. And through these indicators, there's already been an assessment of what the reason for the increase is. These are the reasons that I've been mostly in macroeconomic indicators, in growth trends. What are the other reasons for the increase in the budget, i.e. the revenue from this year's budget and those expenditures that show up? We've already said, the gray economy. I want to highlight here one piece of information that we all know is a good part of so-called. Managers in Croatian society show 2 basic features. One, and that is, he is measured through success. First, how to play and cheat the state and the second how to play and cheat the worker. Therefore, if the incursion is in that sector of the state, it is the obligation of the state, the intrusion. And if because they do not comply with their obligations to the state and workers, someone will come into bankruptcy, so it is not a problem because they do not pull the wheel forward and are not the generator of society's development. Therefore, it is necessary to highlight and support those others who are actually a driver for the development of Croatian society. Through these two measures, the fiscal adjustment that we have already highlighted and through this coverage of revenue collection in this year, which we also highlight as positive measures, is now happening then the increase in revenue Budget in this year for already 899 million kuna shown. And here, for the first time through this fiscal adjustment, economic stabilisation and strengthening economic growth through these tri-determinants, we show that there is a reason for the budget rebalancing to be carried out in a positive way. It can already be commented in one way or another, whether it should be in one sector or another. But the fact is that almost half of that rebalancing or increased revenue of 899 million is going to cover the expenditures that, by the assessment of this government and by the assessment, are important for the movement in society. And that's, I'd say, the therapy of sick health, allow this kind of translated expression in that part of which we've determined this amount of 400 and some million kunas. It is a social welfare in that part of which this government still shows social sensitivity and executes that part. Therefore, this will continue to be carried out and these are increases, i.e. in the agriculture and small and medium-sized entrepreneurship sectors. And one note at the end. In this difference in salary increases, some have reported an increased number of employees. It is not about the number of employees, but it is about that some who are now complaining about labour rights did not pay in their term of office by means of a social contract of contracted labour rights and the remains of these unpaid labour rights based on judicial solutions now, and in the coming time they will come for payment of this government. Therefore, it was necessary to cover such unpaid labour rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69585	Thank you. The HSLS club, a respected representative, Vice-President Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69586	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, at first, we had a chance to hear that the reasons for this rebalancing were good. There is talk of speeding up economic growth, faster collection of funds than expected in the state budget in the first 5 months by 12.6% more revenue compared to the same period last year. So it's attributed, it says, to the more efficient work of the IRS and to curb the gray economy. Let me warn you, however, of some of the figures that need to be acknowledged, considered, and then, of course, suggest measures. In fact, 10% of GDP is still lost on the black market. There is information that there are still more than 30,000 full-time people working on black, and it is mentioned that there are twice as many as these 30,000 people working occasionally, seasonally or part-time and all that on black. According to data from the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, only 89 inspectors are working in the trade sector, and there is also one data that is definitely worrying, and this is that so far for the non-payment of workers, thus far the creation of unfair competition in entrepreneurship has not been imposed any of the highest fines of 190 thousand kuna. By the way, do you know what punishments are being imposed? The largest so far has been given according to the data I have is 30 thousand kunas or imagine the irony of reproof. What does it mean to punish one trade chain that doesn't pay workers or some other employers in reproof or a fine of 30 thousand kuna? Well, that's directly encouraging labour default, but then unfair competition, but also then through taxes and defaulting the state budget. It is clear that you can try to deny it, but it would be much more effective to go on a proposal for measures to reduce the figures at least when it comes to unpaid work on black. Greater funds have been allocated for primary schools, secondary schools, dormitories, higher education, and that must be a good investment. We know the wages are low. You should see how much of that money will go, and of course check out how to better equip schools because there are still schools that work on the same programs with a rubber and a pencil at a time when we have centres of competitiveness and when we have equal tests for them. It is positive that the increased funds are at the position of the ministry of lawsuits and executions from which the inheritance will be paid to teachers and teachers of regressions because they have filed charges and the accounts of a number of school institutions have been blocked. At the position of the Ministry of Health and Social Care, however, funds for childcare have been reduced without adequate parental care. I don't know if we can talk about significant amounts, but it was to expect an increase in such funds. Also, there are no means of alimony of child care for divorced parents who do not comply with their maintenance obligations. The courts are still slow, special measures that are effective do not exist and this is a direct blow to single-parent families. We announced the Law on the Alimentary Fund, which was systematically rejected by reason of the fact that the courts would function and that social care centres would do part of their jobs and meet parents on their rights. They are also reduced funds for mentally ill adults, although they live in institutions that are often inadequate, the means of combating AIDS have been reduced, although we know that this is a threat to all mankind and that is especially in that part of education, for secondary schools it is definitely unacceptable because we know what timely education means. The funds have also been reduced to join voluntary testing and consultations on AIDS, and we believe it is also necessary to increase these funds for drug testing. I can tell from experience that hospitals can't cover the costs of tests and then ask local self-government for help. It's hard to say no, of course, but what local budgets can withstand all these cuts that occur in government budgets? The funds for removing architectural barriers in health institutions have also been reduced, we hope that the barriers are reduced due to the envisaged legal solutions, but there should be some data prepared, perhaps not within this agenda point, as they continue to be supported by local self-governments. The Ministry of Defence, I know that liberals can be expected to talk about reducing or seeking or supporting reductions for the Ministry of Defence or the Ministry of the Interior, but I must warn that the funds in the Ministry of Defence are being reduced by 39 million and 900 thousand, and this will go safely to equipment and modernization, to their decommissioning, and we have the information that only our peacekeeping military units in Afghanistan have secure ammunition jeeps, and there they go. There's been a reduction in the resources to work and rebuild the army, and we don't know if it means whether it's a result of a re-shuffle or something else. What should certainly be considered and, if necessary, increased reliably, we know who we are and with local budgets that it is impossible just to increase the budget, not to reveal the resources where to force them, where to find them. That's why I was talking at first about the suspensions that definitely exist and that Mr. Minister will hardly try to kill, even though he will. It should be considered whether sufficient funds for Croatia are the fire department for prevention now before the summer. So, the budget requires, the amendment proposal and the addition of the State budget require further explanations, I believe that they will, however, be sought in the making of this document to ensure that in a country that is not financially decentralised, local self-government is not burdened by the part where it cannot withstand the state budget. Otherwise, all we have is spilling a minus from one cashier to another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69587	Thank you very much. At 11 and 10, the time for the 10-minute hearing was up, and 24 MPs and representatives and 3 clubs still signed up. Honorable representative Tonci Tadic, Club of HSP Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69588	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. When we adopted the State budget for this year, I noted that there is no Croatian state budget without rebalancing. As much as at that time when the budget was adopted, the finance minister swore that it was actually the final and best form of budget, no matter how much this budget was shown as the greatest reach of the human mind, because it is indeed the most perfect thing that can and has no space for any amendment, there is no room for any change in any of the items of the budget, as a rule every year we have a rebalancing. Sometimes in September, and this year they're a little early. So there is no Croatian budget without rebalance, there is no Croatian budget in which in the middle of the year someone does not remember that it would be better to change the items of the budget and it actually leads to another question, which is what the debate on the budget does not want to be adopted because the budget is perfect and unchangeable so that then a few months later the budget changes rapidly and that then each item is actually questioned? About a year ago, I was interviewed by two scientists who are working for the World Bank on a project to compare budget-making procedures in the countries of the world, and according to my knowledge, Croatia actually has the same method of budgeting as Honduras, no offense to the Middle American country. Only for us and in Honduras is the budget brought within a week with very little intervention in budget items within these weeks. So, within the first day, a long almost all-day debate is being held. A week later, the government announced the amendments and then held a ritualized debate in the Croatian Parliament where 400 amendments were rejected. In this way, the Parliament actually makes little or no contribution to the appearance of the Croatian state budget, which is why these discussions are today only when they lead to a full debate on the Croatian state budget for next year. Other parliaments discuss the budget for weeks. So, not within a week like us and Honduras but weeks, if you need a month's item per item, because the budget is the most important document some parliament adopts over the year. He's a reflection of the entire state policy. Unfortunately, in Croatia, that is still not the case, and its analysis is still under discussion for only one day, but only twenty MPs have been reported there, although I repeat, the most important document a parliament has brought over the year. It is therefore a time to start a discussion on the budget for the next year, based on this rebalance and insight into the state budget in the first six months. That should be the right approach in our court. HSP therefore wants a studio debate on the state budget, on each of its items and on the policy behind the item, rather than a debate in seven days. Rebalancing whatever Mr. Finance was talking about successes is also the result of savings on certain items in the state budget or savings when compared in 2005 to 2006. The savings are also shown in the construction of the helipad on islands, the savings are shown in the flood protection item, the savings are shown for the construction of ships or for support between coastal lines between Croatia and Italy. By the way, Italian... has cancelled three of our lines and we have also reduced the number of our lines with Italy as our carriers and our citizens feel. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The savings are shown on the development of the island, the savings are shown to support freight transport in inland water navigation. If only those items I listed were summed up, there is a "saving", in fact, a denial of Croatian development of half a billion kuna. And when you add that to a crumb of higher tax revenue this year, then this cosmetic rebalancing is achieved. What things will look like in the rest of the year remains to be seen. This is the first year in which the 10% VAT rate is fully applied to tourism, accommodation in tourism, and this rate has miraculously applied despite the fact that our club has already advocated it for years, but so far it has been taboo to even consider changing VAT and introducing a rate. Perhaps all of this encourages the ministry to start thinking about introducing a step-by-step for other activities because, besides Denmark, we are the only country in Europe in which VAT is fixed and the same for everyone except here and there zero VAT rates. It is time, then, for the Ministry of Finance to start thinking about changing the VAT system, it is also time for the Ministry of Finance to accept and make it easier for shipowners when it comes to their fuel. And here I repeat once again on behalf of our club that the HSP is looking for and in this we have the support of most opposition MPs to sell fuel for shipowners without a fee to build roads and highways into their price. Also, when we talk about this rebalancing, we must not forget the fact that the sharp growth of VAT, which is the main charger of the state budget, is still, unfortunately, a good part of the result of import growth and external debt growth. So, unfortunately, Croatia's budget is still based on consumption and on the growth of production that the Ministry of Finance shows in this report we can only trust them on the word. We hope that such a trend will indeed be realised by the end of the year and will continue over the next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69589	Thank you. For PGS, SBH and MDS, respected representatives Željko Pavlic and Nikola Ivanis. First Zeljko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69590	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister! So let me, on behalf of the Primorje-Gorski Alliance Club, the Slavon-Baranja Croatian Party and the Međimurje Democratic Alliance, therefore, refer to the adoption of budget rebalancing for 2006. Normally I will talk about this budget from our perspective, from our dimension, from the dimension of regional and regionalist parties such as our three parties. At first, we can say that we are not satisfied, so we will not support this rebalancing because unfortunately this rebalancing, the proposal, therefore, is another proof that Croatia is a highly centralised country with strong fiscal capacity control by the central state, resulting therefore in the presence of a large arbitration of the same state compared to the expenditure of these funds, which again proves that this country has no trust in its citizens and which would therefore be different that they are the lowest forms of government, these are our municipalities, cities and counties have both finance and powers to dispose of more funds. I can only say here to begin by mentioning that our three parties and, in the meantime, our regionalally joined, joined the Dalmatian Liberal Party, that we created a platform for regionalisation of Croatia where we highlighted a particular point, a point that speaks of decentralisation. In this point, it is said, therefore, that in addition to the power to create a new distribution of the country's income, the final relationship will be such that 60% of the revenues will belong to the state and 40% of the revenues to regions and local self-government. Unfortunately, today is not the case. So a huge part of that financial cake belongs to the state. So the budget is totaled before, over 100 billion kuna. The city of Zagreb has just over 6 billion kunas, and all together the units of local administration and self-government have about 7.8 billion kuna. So that's one disproportionate we're fighting and we'll try to make him change as soon as possible. So here's this budget rebalance in this House is presented with great pleasure, almost, almost euphoric, which is not strange, so when we see these basic indicators. But when we compare these basic indicators to the budgets of some of the local self-government, then we really have to ask ourselves, can such a situation continue? So the materials tell us that incomes are therefore increasing by 899 million. for a little over 10%. We have the materials here. One rebalancing proposal, the budget of an average municipality in Međimurje. They have not yet brought that budget rebalancing but are at that stage, but on the other hand they have problems, so they suggest that their income, business, total incomes are reduced from 5 million to 4 and a half million, respectively. for less than 805,000 kuna. It is therefore worrying that, unlike the State budget, tax revenues are falling. In the State budget, tax revenues are increasing by 7.9%, and in this municipality, tax revenues are decreasing by 10%. For such a small municipality, that's a lot. What is particularly worrying is, for example, the state of profit tax. In the age tax, the profit tax in the State budget increased by 16%, slightly more than 16% in order to reduce it from 150 grand to 100 grand in this municipality. Almost one-third. At the same time, the city of Zagreb has its own budget rebalance. It increases its budget by 445 million kuna so that now the budget in the proposal is now 6 billion 820 million kuna. In the city's budget, therefore, the profit tax rises by 102 million kuna and amounts to a billion and 447 million kuna. So we also see what the problems are in financing local administration and self-government units. I think it needs to be changed as soon as possible. Just to point out that we are not against such a good budget that the City of Zagreb has, we just want to get to the point that the municipalities, cities and counties also have great quality budgets so that they can finance all the projects they have drawn up or at least finance the powers that the Government imposes on them and their budgets remain the same. To just illustrate a little bit more the relationship... The state and local budget here is just to let us, for example, quote that the budget of the Međimurje County for 2005 was 250 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But these are the budgets of all municipalities, cities and counties. The county budget itself was in the height of 73 million kuna. Added to the budgets of all 20 municipalities, cities and counties are about 250 million kuna. So the budget revenue of all municipalities, cities and counties in Međimurje is only 0.25% compared to the state budget. It could point out that the Međimurje County has 2 and a half percent of the population of the Republic of Croatia and that surely one, in the future, would have to be the number of inhabitants and that in future redistributions, then budget income would have to be shared by the number of inhabitants. So I'd end up with this part with a warning so we can't accept that this situation goes on and on the ground. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69591	Thank you. And the esteemed representative, Nikola Ivanish.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69592	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! Let me fill in a colleague on behalf of the PGS Club of the SBHS with some additional thinking that will only, just a little bit more referencing this story about health care and would like to comment a little more on the fact that the Rebalancing Budget is growing by 899 million and that 423 million kuna goes to the Croatian Health Insurance Office, which we hold quite serious proof of what we are often in this assembly and this pay phone talk about how the system of health financing in this country is inadequate, that it is unsatisfactory. That it was one system that caused the health crisis. Cause of day, week, month and year, annual health problems resulting from these two billion deficits per year. When almost half, when nearly half of the budget's growth in rebalancing goes to health care, we keep it really very serious to admit that the health funding system is inadequate. Let me remind you today, however, health care is in the absolute largest part of it almost fully funded at 15.5% of the rate, or at 16 billion a year in this year. That's about 9% of GDP. It's insufficient and it's the ultimate generator of the crisis. 423 million kuna, of course, in a situation where health care with the losses of clinical hospitals, general hospitals and the overall system is supported. However, this is where we bow to those who have declared the measure a firehouse in this case. It is a fire measure that will produce certain results in the second half of this year, but all open problems that are the problems of the crisis and the inaccessibility of the health funding system remain and after these 423 million and per day, the monthly and annual problem will continue to repeat itself, i.e. to restore the problem. What do we keep in mind about that? What Mr Tadic said earlier on behalf of the HSP Club, I have to return to it for a moment because I do not belong to those who often support HSP's views but the fact that what he said is that the way we bring the budget, that this fact applies and that it is also the way that very often we bring important things. In such a way, in haste, without real debate, in front of the evening, the evening sessions of this House bring very often important things. Last week we discussed the 4 health laws package. This package of 4 health laws does not solve any of the important health problems, but it was done in the first reading, it was done before and in the evening. Practically and without informing the Croatian public about it. Of course it will be done in other readings, but the problems remain and the problems will remain. For example, on the subject of funding, I'm not saying this now if you take the solutions proposed by this package. Clinical hospitals, clinical institutions in this country will be rehabilitated from the state budget, and of the 14 clinical institutions that this country has 10 are located in the City of Zagreb. Therefore, whoever else is in the best financial position will be the most rehabilitated of all. 10 clinical institutions are located in Zagreb, 4 are located outside Zagreb. But debts, i.e. general hospitals, will be settled by county budgets, county budgets that do not even account for 2% of the country's fiscal capacity. So whoever's in the most discriminated position when it comes to money is given new obligations, and county hospitals have practically all the counties. I think maybe one county in Croatia doesn't. Therefore, one who has the least of his duties is transferred to the highest responsibility, which is to repair the losses of his county hospitals. But county hospitals' revenues will be determined by the ministry and the HZZO continue. So I think we're getting into a situation where we're deepening the problem, and of course we're always going to be in a situation where we're going to try to fix something with rebalances or some of these kind of measures, and that's definitely not good for us. We think that the solution, as in all others, is a thorough and systematic debate on what are all sources of health funding. Then we won't be able to put half the budget rebalances into the health care system. The system that is now proposed with basic health insurance that will remain centralised so that the additional, additional and private problems will not be solved. It will not increase health income and will not reduce the accumulation of permanent health debt. For this reason, we want to take the opportunity to discuss this rebalancing to say the following, to compare one situation where, when the county budgets are burdened with the investment maintenance of general hospitals, the first decentralised funds came as a measure at the same time, regardless of whether they were harmonised, whether the same burden was the investment maintenance and the same amount of decentralised funds. It is now planned to transfer to the county budgets the resolution of general hospitals' losses, but there are no new decentralised funds. I mean, we have to point out that because it's just going to increase that gap, and it's going to increase these problems and those losses, and we're not going to be able to deal with the rebalances, as in this case right now we're trying to make it work. And we think that it is absolutely necessary to see and repeat the necessity that everyone who has the knowledge and capabilities to try to see where the right solutions are, changes in the health funding system. Where are these right solutions, where all exports of financing of the health care system are, because this problem remains open and of course we want to stress that we think that the the thesis that the decentralisation of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance must also be considered, on regional institutions and on the principle of holding with the state institution, we think that this is also one of the solutions because we think that regional funds might be better able to manage more rationally with the resources that they have remained exclusively for the needs of their health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69593	Thank you. For the HSS Club, respected representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69594	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear representative of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, after the debacle Croatia had in football in Germany, finally the good news, I finally have some optimism here in the Parliament. It was brought to us by Minister Shuker and Prime Minister Sanader at the time he was with us. Mladen Delic would say, "Is it possible for my people?" so we didn't even know how good we were until the Minister Shuker showed up here, so he introduced us to it. It's interesting, so I actually like it the most when he comes here to Parliament and when he talks about budget rebalancing, because after his clarifications of social movements he's so convincing that in the end he also seems to believe his own story. Because when it comes to budgeting, that budget is only possible, and when it comes to budget rebalancing, it happens solely because of good movement and it was actually expected. What you can expect in this year I believe is another rebalancing of that budget, so it will be interesting to hear that clarification. But it would also be interesting to hear the clarification that made the share of VAT in budget revenues 34.2% in 2000 and why it is 36.7% in this year's budget. What is the basis for just such a great increase and such great participation. Obviously, the Croatian tax system is focused on effective collection of funds, and it is too small or not aimed at encouraging economic activity at all. Costs are too high and actually such costs and such a model of budget collection encourages a grey economy, encourages avoidance of payments and levels of public spending it is absolutely certainly undisputed is too high. Sources of such public revenues in any form, tax form, in the form of contributions burden the economy and the economy is uncompetitive because the tax press, and especially the tax press on labour is too high and too high. If we look at an average Croatian family in these tax burdens that they actually have, their tax exemptions or the non-taxable part of income should be about 7 thousand kuna. Because it takes so much to spend on a four-member Croatian family if it wants to live normally. I hope that we will hear something about this untaxable part of the income, whether it will increase, if we are already doing as well as we have heard from the Prime Minister's opening statements. What should not actually grow as a tax burden is called an external debt, especially at this rate that Croatia in any case leads to a difficult service of external debt. Because we can't rely solely on other people's accumulation, we can't base it on loans and on further sale of assets. Because we know where it leads. One constant of the budget, as well as this rebalance of the budget, is that the state is increasingly taking more and less giving. Here, when VAT increases, obviously we can talk about its main cause, and I think that's what's causing the increase in imports. It would be interesting to hear the structure of the total VAT, especially the structure of VAT growth that happened. Some other things that happen as part of the budget and the state budget are interesting. Because the new pensioners actually pay off the old ones. We're paying back the debt in such a way that we're the new pensioners who retired after '99. The years we cut off 800 million kuna, so with that money we're actually paying off the old ones that we made in some previous period. We want to introduce two lists of medicines because obviously we cannot finance health care according to the needs of citizens, but according to the possibilities of the budget. So we're going to have two drug lists, one list for the rich with the original drugs and the other for the poor with the generics. And obviously we can't talk, and no such development can support that would have a rate of 7% to 8%, a development based on employment. Because there's no money in the budget for reforms. You can't see that money. The labour force is obviously uncompetitive in Croatia, there is no labour market, we do not want to invest from the budget in adult education, even if it is necessary. One specific area in which budget rebalancing could be discussed is the price of oil, not only on the world market but also at home, its impact on budget revenues, but especially its impact on entrepreneurship, how much domestic oil is in total consumption in Croatia, how much higher revenues are actually made by Croatian budgets due to increased oil prices, and whether we can reduce the cost of excise duties on oil products for the past half of the year and thus reduce the burden on citizens and, in particular, increase the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. What's worrying, because I'm worried about when the country's revenues are growing through the budget and through taxes it's just the same that, under quotes, it's growing successfully and the city's budgets. Recently, I read in the paper that the City of Virovitica has also introduced cuts where it will increase its original income by about 10 percent. Of course, entrepreneurs and citizens do not know how to handle their money, so someone does the best for them. This trend is not followed by an increase in revenues only from the state, but obviously it also happens with local self-government. What do citizens and entrepreneurs say about that? We do not seem to listen enough, the messages of entrepreneurs are that they become uncompetitive, the messages of citizens are that they are overloaded by loans and those loans that are exclusively taken for the naked life. Schooling is difficult even in elementary school, because today a package of books for a student costs a thousand kuna. As far as the education of university adults is concerned, there is not a word in the budget. Just like there's less and less money in families for regular schooling students. What I am looking at in this budget rebalancing and still not solved, and even on the side of the margin somewhere, the biggest problems remain. It is in any case insufficient production and insufficient exports that occur in Croatia with growing tourism, but it cannot cover the deficit. There remains one distinction of Croatia, not only for one uneven development between the regions, but for the separation of rich and poor citizens in Croatia. It would be normal, in fact, for those who have more and those who get more and give for social policy. However, this is not the case in Croatia. We have been waiting for tax reform for three years, and it seems that in this term, the government will not even welcome it. The trend in income growth and the budget is based on VAT, and we actually know who the most full VAT budget is, these are citizens who can't really avoid it. Because VAT pays the end consumer. In Croatia, it obviously needs more foreign investment in production. With such tax burdens, with such contributions we cannot expect foreigners to arrive, except for investments in monopolies and other investments in those activities called financing and financial services, etc. Croatia needs an increase in exports. Croatia needs a reduction in unemployment and Croatia needs more investment in development and greater investment in staff education in any case. Croatia needs to create new products. Unfortunately, there is neither a word in the budget nor a budget rebalancing. Croatia should have one consensus between entrepreneurs, between workers, the government, and finally why not politics in order to finally solve the biggest problems that are ahead of us, which we all recognize, which we all have in our programmes. But apparently we keep pushing them under the carpet. 1% of Croatian politicians actually have 100 million kuna, deciding which regions they will place them in, possibly which capital projects they will push through, whether they will go north, south, east or west. It is interesting that 1% of Croatian entrepreneurs have 72% of their capital and it is already known that foreign banks in Croatia have over 95% of their financial potential. Of course, there's not a word about it here, even if it should be a fundamental matter of budget rebalancing and trying to act on these negative trends. Such issues and these issues do not resolve this budget. It is unknown what the government thinks, because they have not spoken about it either, nor has Prime Minister Sanader spoken. That's why HSS can't support this kind of budget rebalance. The key reasons are that the increase in income is exclusively based on payment, i.e. on the increase in VAT tax revenues and VAT growth is based on imports. The growth is based on imports, as well as on an increase in world market oil prices, which is of course neither due nor guilty by the current government. What we don't like about HSS is that the state continues to sell and spend, not invest. What a future without investment in development we all know. She's short-term fairytale, long-term she's absolutely ineffective. That's why we're not gonna support this kind of rebalancing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69595	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69596	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Pecek said in his statement that those who have more to give for social needs, which is not the case with us. Which is not true. Because it is generally known that the level of taxes, cuts and contributions is proportional to the level of income, and therefore greater separation for all and social and other needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69597	HNS representative club, respected representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69598	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This budget rebalance is due to an increase in revenues by 899 million kuna, of which the profit tax is increased by 584, and VAT by 836 million kuna, but some tax revenues are reduced, and then the total increase in revenue is 899 million kuna, and if that money were properly allocated then it would be a good budget rebalance. However, we believe that this money is being allocated in the wrong way according to the proposed budget rebalancing. Why the wrong way? We have no objection to reducing debt by 486 million kuna, but the question is how the remaining 400 and some million kunas are used, instead of trying to put that money on those strategic development goals of the Republic of Croatia and on investments, and on infrastructure. The logic of this rebalancing on the spending side is quite the opposite. So not only does investment not grow but the decline in investment that is reflected in the reduction of the non-financial asset purchase item by 206 million kuna, and this 400 million kuna money that goes for consumption for regular operation mainly for consumption, it increases from 400 million kuna to 697 million kuna. So that money from those 400 million kunas that remained after the debt was reduced, that money is not spent on development projects and not even on infrastructure, for the quality of the functioning of our institutions but mainly on consumption and that is something that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party cannot support. Another note at this most general level. It is said that there is a reduction in the dynamics of external debt growth, but it is forgotten that in fact the Republic of Croatia is making a political decision not to be in debt outside, it is in debt in the Republic of Croatia and in the short term, which raises two issues. The first is whether this borrowing is actually done in domestic capital and whether it creates conditions for the growth of domestic financial institutions. In fact, no, because it's about borrowing from foreign-owned domestic banks and this short-term borrowing is much more expensive than long-term borrowing, which is, of course, very visible from this data that is listed here so that domestic debt service is growing by 687 million kuna. That's the so-called. internal debt, it's this short-term debt with bigger interest rates, and it would've been much better if we'd been in debt on the outside market because I'm afraid it's the external market with long-term loans and with smaller interest then those charges would have been less. Of course, this shows that external debt service is falling by 177 million kuna, but there remains a difference of 500 million kuna that has increased to service an internal debt which is actually an external debt and that is something we think is a completely wrong policy, it is the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party that will not be able to support it. When we talk about strategic policies in this country, I'll only look back at a few ministries. It is certainly the strategic policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and most political parties to join NATO and the European Union. And if you look at what's going on in that segment, then you'll see that the declared policy to join the European Union and NATO is actually not being read in this budget. Thus, the Ministry of Defence's revenues fall by 40 million kuna, and at the same time it is said that we will achieve very quickly that our budget of the Ministry of Defence is 2% of our gross national product. So when we achieve this if in 2006, which has been in the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces, the defence ministry's budget falls, so who will compensate for this necessary growth in the defence ministry's budget to 2% of the gross national product that should be achieved and which is a prerequisite for modernising the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. So this is declared one thing, it's written in projects and long-term problems one thing, and the reality is, it's very clear here, doing something quite different. And it is not surprising that recently these days we read in the paper that NATO diplomatic sources are saying that due to delayed slow reforms in the armed system of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia is delaying its entry into full NATO membership. And of course, NATO's full membership is very closely related to full membership in the European Union and we are in this way delaying the strategic policy that we have both declared by this government and the former government and all of Croatia's governments as a strategy, the most important issue of our policy and our future. So one is said, one is declared, and in the documents that mean life, which is the budget, it's spoken and it sets something completely different. The same situation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integrations where income, i.e. costs for the adjustment process to the standards of the European Union, falls by 54 million kuna. If something should not fall in this budget, if it is a strategic provision, then it should not be the cost of adaptation processes to the standards of the European Union. And from 84 million to 34 million. So the item in the foreign ministry's budget is more than halved. How, then, can we expect that, as quickly as we want to join the European Union, if we enter both segments and join the European Union and NATO, and that is evident from this budget, we are actually late and delayed with all of course the negative consequences of our policy. This is equally evident in the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry where the project of harmonising agriculture with the legal gains of the European Union is reduced by 3 and a half million kuna, and if, therefore, in this segment so sensitive and so important for adapting to the European Union, perhaps the most important segment, the most painful segment of adaptation is agricultural policy, it is reducing here. The same is happening in the fisheries harmonisation project with the acquis of the European Union. Again, a very sensitive, very painful process that is not given enough attention, which is, therefore, visible again from the state of these two items. Not to say that it is crucial in agriculture whether we will be competitive with the European Union when a free game is fully opened, which is a prerequisite for rounding up agricultural property, irrigation and planting permanent plantations. In either segment, the Republic of Croatia has not achieved any significant shifts in the past 3 years. The planting of permanent plantations goes well below the dynamics that would require that in 2010, when it will probably be disabled, we achieve what our goal is, which means 15 thousand hectares of vineyards and 50 thousand acres of orchards and olive groves. With this dynamic, we will certainly not succeed, and then we will have limits set by the European Union as it sets out for all the countries that enter its membership. If we're not going to fight exceptions, if we do, we won't be able to fight them somewhere else, which, of course, will be a problem again. The irrigation is almost unknown in the Republic of Croatia. In one of the parliamentary issues I have referred to the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, the answer is that irrigation has been based only on pilot level over the past few years. If it takes us 4 years to set up a pilot project that costs only a few million kunas, so how long will it take us to really poor number and the percentage of our agricultural areas that are irrigated to increase to 20, 30 or 40%. And of course I'm not saying what's the difficulty in rounding up agricultural property, and that's one of the assumptions that tomorrow when the free market opens, they'd be able to get into that game evenly. And finally, another strategic area, which is the area of education and science. All key items concerning education in this budget, i.e. rebalancing, have been questioned. Their rise is also in the very budget that we adopted was miserable, minor. It was even smaller than the total growth of the budget, which means that the share of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports was smaller than it was in recent years, and it should be greatly increased according to our declared policies. And it's very clear here from this budget. So capital investment in primary schools falls by more than half the development of curricula models for secondary schools, the assumption of high-quality and state-level graduations and the adaptation of that system to higher education, there is almost no speech about it. This development of the curiculum model is also decreasing. Anyway, he was small, only 3 million kuna, he's shrinking to a million and a half kuna. So, it's cut in half. Therefore, these are the declared policies on which the country's future rests, and it is seen that this budget makes the policy fall. The National Foundation for Science program, with 10 million kunas falling to 5 million kunas. So, this is also halved and what is particularly important in the higher education segment, and that is the implementation of the Bologna Process which is already difficult, and only one generation, only one study year is in this. The next year will be two, two years from now three, three years from now, four years from now. Already today, our colleges are facing insurmountable problems of lack of space, lack of teachers because he's looking for more and more of each other. And if we want this to go faster than it goes, then those items should be increased in this budget, and even in the basic budget itself, they haven't experienced any significant increase compared to the previous year. But the implementation of the Bologna Process in this budget falls from 7 million kuna to 4 million kuna, and the program of perfecting scientific recruits who are crucial that in 3 years when the full burden of the Bologna Process is being implemented at our higher education institutions, the same goes down by 4 million kuna. So these are these strategic policies, I'll repeat what they are in our opinion. This is the approach to the European Union and NATO as our fundamental strategic orientation, then it is an area of agriculture that is very sensitive and very important when we face Europe economically in full terms and there is, of course, primary and secondary education, science and research. In these segments this budget instead of strengthening, it was an opportunity to pour those 400 million into these very areas, that money is spent on consumption and so actually... only my own substance and to base these budgets which, of course, may be politically popular, but do not bring the future, we cannot expect that we will be much better than we are today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So here are the reasons why the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party will not support this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69599	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69600	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's Representative Radosh said it would be a loan from outside institutions. That's not true. In fact, borrowing on the domestic market allows for the development of the domestic market, but chooses the forms of borrowing instruments. In addition, external borrowing leads to an extremely large external vulnerability of a state that all economists agree should certainly avoid.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69601	National Minority Representatives' Club, Honored Representative Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69602	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues, Mr. Minister. The National Minority Club of course has a specific view of the state budget and changes to the state budget and I will limit myself to those items that affect more directly the issues of national minorities as you say, Mr. Jarnjak, I am pleased. The National Minorities Club expresses certain reservations about some of the changes that have come in this Proposal for amendments and additions to the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia. Overall, the resources provided in the budget for the needs of national minorities and the protection of human rights do not constitute an amount which significantly affects the maintenance of budgetary spending in the defined frameworks. In view of this, we do not consider that there is a need to reduce certain items in this area because this does not result in more significant budgetary... , and this is about issues that are particularly important to the European Union negotiations, and these are also about issues that are important regardless of the European Union and Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In other words, what is obtained by reducing certain items of funding for national minorities and what is lost in a certain disproportionate manner is a warning that this should not be in the interest of the Government or this Parliament. The percentage of budget implementation for the first 5 months of this year when funding is provided for education programmes in the language and letter of national minorities and for the national programme for Roma is extremely low and it moves only around 4.4%. It's said, we point out that this is hard to forgive if it's meant to be, for example. The problem of the textbook for minority teaching has been open for years and that it is constantly pointed out, namely to warn and to warn the Minister of Education that the problem of books and the financing of textbooks has never actually been solved in Croatia, that even today in schools of national minorities there are actually no real translation books and there are no textbooks and many minorities, including mine, I would say before all my minority, the Italian minority benefits of books from abroad. The particular issue is how it is possible for students and students from the ranks of national minorities, especially when children from the Roma national minority began to be resolved only in April and May, practically before the end of the school year. The budget was adopted in December of last year, and the funds had to be allocated already in January to achieve the purpose for which they were intended and otherwise the problem, when they start to activate the funds significantly affects the dynamics, of course the spending of these funds and has a significant impact on the rebalancing, because we discovered that first, that the method was also established in some environments to first create cost problems, and then cut with the budget so that you actually have two negative consequences, that you don't do a certain thing and that then you don't have any money afterwards that you work in another part of the year. There is no explanation in the proposal why the funding at the position of the Croatian Employment Institute is projected for the National Minority Education Programme to be reduced from the planned 3 million and 400 thousand to only 100 thousand kuna, so by a huge percentage. We were told later by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities that these were intended to be specific donations, better put forward by the European Union or European institutions which did not occur, but certainly remains the problem of unrealistic planning and failure of this project. We ask that further explain why the funds for the Italian primary school building in Bujam are reduced for the completion of the 270 thousand kuna building to 120 thousand kuna, which means 56% and small funds? How can you even count? I mean, we're at 7 months now, there's 6 months left by the end of the year. I don't see any reason to cut such funds from about 300 thousand kuna, and we'll see after a million and a half thousand kunas that can be spent in an instant when it comes to investment. Since dynamics are not achieved in the first half of the year then, in some ways, this dynamic is projected in the second half of the year rather than folding up the sleeves and correcting in the second half what was not achieved in the first half is not feasible. This also applies to the funds of the Italian secondary school in Pula, i.e. for the sports hall. Out of 3 million kunas, it shrinks to a million and a half kuna, so 50%. Why? Because the first six months were spent on signing contracts and making a competition. Now the contest is over and these funds are now being reduced as if the funds could be spent when the competition is not yet available. The funds can be spent when the competition exists, when there is a performer and when it starts to build. Instead of making new forces with the money they've achieved, it's not to be saved, but it's being located for other schools that are then getting an increase. Well, we won't agree to that. And that's what an amendment has been set up to do, at least as far as I'm concerned, which will significantly affect my vote on this document, on this budget. Furthermore, it is important for the work of national minorities to exercise their rights that the Office of the Public Attorney is important. Of course it's not their whole, it's not his whole part of the business, but the important part of the job concerns the rights of national minorities. An increase of 2.9% is insufficient if the cost increases are taken into account and in fact it does not really change the financing of this office although the Croatian Parliament has already assessed and reached conclusions that the office's resources are too small for effective work and this is an important office and is asked by the Government to propose a solution to the budget and the rebalance does not seem to solve this problem. The Ombudsman for children has a reduction of 200,000 kuna and also the Club of National Minorities cannot agree with such a reduction. And in the end and certainly not a problem for the end of this, I put it in the end because it's particularly important. It is not clear why the funds are being reduced to encourage the restoration of houses from 1st to 3rd category. It's about possible returnees. Out of the planned six 2 million to 38 million kuna, so 24 million or 39%. Given that this is in direct connection with the return of refugees and displaced persons, the applicant should explain the reasons for the amendments to that budget item. I stress that the problem of returning is one of the important problems when talking about Croatia. So, the National Minority Club, in general, has a positive perception of this proposal to amend and supplement the state budget but expresses certain reserves. And, Mr. Minister, I would ask you to take our reserves seriously in your consideration and pass on that concern to our respective ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69603	Thank you very much. Now the club debate is over. By the end of the debate, amendments to the extent necessary shall be submitted in accordance with paragraphs 164 and 175 of the Rules of Procedure. Some MPs, MPs and clubs have already submitted amendments, so by the end of this debate, they have submitted amendments to anyone who wants to. The debate will take approximately four hours, given the number. And now we're going to an individual debate. First respected representative, Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69604	Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Minister with an associate, colleagues and colleagues! When we talk about the budgets in general to state and local, then we are actually talking about a certain redistribution of part of the social product, which is unfortunately very much in Croatia, slightly more than one half of the annual gross social product, we redistribute through the budgets. And then when it comes to the objectives that, through such redistribution, part of the social product should be provided, this is about development, standard, social projects, health care, pensions, education, etc., science. However, with the rebalancing and rationale of the rebalancing that we are just discussing, the main objective is actually to reduce the deficit and through the entire two opening statements we have actually heard only this word deficit, very little about development. Only on the way, the prime minister said that there was a growth in gross products for the first few months was 6%. If that were the case, I would illustrate it on an example, for example, the opening presentation of President Sanader when we were making the budget, he said: "The budget strongly supports the approximation of Croatia's European Union. I will underline it - "ensures the success of project implementation and reflects Croatia's ability to absorb European Union funds.". What happened to the rebalancing? What's the explanation? The explanation says this: "It reduces it by 47.4 million kuna because not all planned projects will be implemented," it says of the aids there "all planned projects will be left behind and the planned funds will help from the European Union funds." So, when we look at the items in the budget, the projects that should have been monitored through the SAPARD, PHARE, ISPA, etc. are reduced. but also reduce the adjustment funds for entry into the European Union. So it would be normal for us to have received some statistical data through the opening but also through a budget explanation which we now have to collect according to different reports from the National Bank to statistics. The representative of the HDZ Club presented some of these data, of course selectively and of course data on certain growth. Well, then I'm left with the bad news messenger to say the data that isn't that great. And let's say this data for the first quarter when it comes to the volume of industrial production, then it's said to be slowed down and that it's mostly slowed down in the production of non-permanent consumer goods that actually represent one third of our industrial production. But they are actually the consequence of an analysis of the imports of the decreases in this production because it is also the most significant imports of exactly such consumer goods. Stocks also record a slight drop. Let's remember, in 2005, they were even 11% compared to industrial production, which was a few index points lower than that, but also said a slight decline was due to a decrease in the supply of investment goods while of other regional goods, growth is recorded. And if we have growth data, the economic growth of 6% really raises the question why we're not going to the growth correction at the annual level because it's significantly below 5% and we with this growth of 6% are somewhere at the annual growth level of 2003 or 2002 when it was moving from 5.6.5.3. So why don't we set ourselves a more ambitious rate of growth both at the annual level and through the budget itself. It also concerns the balance of payments. These three months of trade exports of 2.3 billion euros, i.e. the dollar, have seen some growth, but we also have a significant growth in imports of $4.7 billion and the annual growth rate of the external trade deficit rose to 13 and a half percent in the first quarter. We haven't heard anything about the debt. The truth is that the debt of the central state is slowing down a few times, but it's 107 billion kuna. There should also be added a certain portion or a certain percentage and guarantees that always come to the charge of the state as much as we take care of who and how we issue guarantees from another 12 and a half billion kuna. Looking at the total foreign debt observed by the National Bank at 26,314 billion euros, then we see that the country has a slight decrease. But in three months, foreign debt growth of banks has risen by a billion euros. This means, however, while everyone else has contributed additionally to around 300m euros somewhere, it still says in favour of the fact that the country's domestic market debt actually generates bank debt on the foreign market and we certainly cannot escape from it. This is very reluctant to open the debate, and compared to those discussions we had in 2001, the second and third years when there was no such worrying growth of external debt, given that there were also significant state investments indeed now we can say that avoiding a debate on the level of debt actually means running away from reality. As this increase in revenue is explained by almost a billion, so 899 million kuna. In fact, they stem from an increase in tax revenues, and from a reduction in income from assets and a reduction in aid to which European funds have been calculated. The most significant actual increase in revenue but also in absolute terms are revenue from value added tax, and it actually corresponds with exactly this large imports knowing that VAT is also charged at the time when imports are made, therefore at the border itself, and it is well returned as it returns. Yeah? At the same time, we have and I say a reduction in income from assets, a reduction in income from European funds, and this should actually mean that we are giving up certain projects, i.e. that we do not have what is being found in the budget itself, and that we are going to spend again the priority of the deficit for which we can't actually say at this point what it is, because there are some things we don't want to open up at all. Therefore, wages are remunerated because they are unreally planned at the annual level, not taking into account annual employment. We had a chance to find out in the last year that about 1200 advisors needed an extra 105 million kuna. This year we also have a pay deficit of 143 million kuna. Looking at the biggest increase in the budget is health care. At the same time, we have a reduction in the increase in quality and availability of health services for 85 million kuna and increases by 485 million kuna the cost of primary and hospital health care. And actually, it's not an increase if we look at and compare this item to execution then it's a growth in these costs compared to the execution last year of 5%. Let's respect inflation here. Then it's just a slight increase and sure as hell it won't solve health problems, not talking about county hospitals that aren't showing up anywhere. I'll say, for example, Međimurje County, which has about 20 million, don't throw it to me later, 20 million kunas have original incomes, losses about 6.7 million kunas are not at all covered because there are other obligations and loans it has taken to purchase equipment. Therefore, the subsidies in agriculture are increasing by 115 million kuna, and they are actually increasing because in the last year they are not fully paid, they are not fully paid, so they have to be transferred to this year. And so we could also list a few of those items. Of course, that's what my colleague said on behalf of our club. We can't accept this kind of budget rebalance.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69605	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Željko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69606	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. I'd like to correct a few incorrect allegations from my colleague Zgrebec. First of all, here, a small door tries to rear something that is not true, which is primarily a statement that in 2002, there was no greater increase in external debt. That's incorrect, and that's what we've been having discussions about over the past two years, and I don't think we should reopen this debate. And as for the same incorrect assumption that the debt of county hospitals should be resolved through the budget and that is incorrect, because the Law on Health Institutions during your government which was adopted writes exactly who is responsible for the recovery of county hospitals, and these are the county itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69607	Replica, respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69608	My colleague Zgrebec said the funds were increased in primary hospital care, and she added that it was only in fact the level of execution for last year increased by inflation, and I would ask myself, what is happening, where it decreases in health care. The improvement of health care on islands, the reduction of 4 million 690 000 kuna. So improving health care on the islands is what we are full of mouths when it comes to islands, about the health care of people on the islands, they should stay and so on. What else is shrinking? Emergency medical attention. Seven million and six hundred thousand down. There is indeed a drastic decline, and so in time there is tourism, tourist season and so on we can think that it can also reflect on that part. Then waste management in health care. There's a cut of 4 million kuna. On the one hand, we have an increase in primary hospital protection, and if we consider the discussion of fellow Ivanis, who spoke about what will happen to those hospitals that are in the jurisdiction of the county budgets, and when we see where it is shrinking, then here we see that we will, especially at sea, come with this rebalance on impact and on health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69609	The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69610	Well, I was trying to say that nothing is actually going to change with an additional 485 million kuna in health care. In fact, all that's done is fire measures and they can't solve the debt problem in health care. They must be resolved by deep cuts and reforms, and we can see that in the laws that we will probably also bring to this session on health insurance and accompanying laws, we will not actually solve the problem of a system that generates losses, but we will also try to pass a part of the costs on to users or patients.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69611	Second Replicated MP Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69612	So, fellow Zgrebec, you object to the government how many new people she's hired in the state administration. It is as if you forget that the election year 2007 is approaching and that internal pressures are increasing in the current authorities to offer a guarantee of their own excellence. After all, it was also declared by this government. Excellence must become a recognizable Croatian sign, Croatian trend, Croatian brand. Well then, by following that principle, the government employs and past competitions, and so with one blow that the people would say kills two flies. It's her program to reduce the unemployed, and she's also increasing her electoral machinery.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69613	The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69614	My colleague Anticevic, I did not object to the government's employment. I didn't go into that segment at all, but I said that the government unrealizedly shows money for wages every year. Because it does not increase or take into account new employment probably. We and this year have a training programme, 1400 seems to me to be published in all state bodies and ministries, and again, we have a lack of funds for salaries in 2006 regardless of what is not, nowhere is actually not the plan for growth of wages. So I conclude from that that is only because the number of newly employed ministers has not been taken into account, and therefore this 143 million kuna is missing.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69615	Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69616	Thank you very much, Mr. President. "Whom you cannot teach me state expenditures to show through the budget don't teach me how not to be a finance minister," Shuker said. "The former government did not record Racan's expenditure in the expenditure side of the budget. This Sanader government will never do it and this finance minister will never do anything like that." That's what Shuker said. Now look at the wonders! There are no pensioners in the budget or in the budget rebalancing of the budget. One billion US$200 million now and a billion €200 million at the end of the year, two billion €400 million, no sign of this fat book. Says Minister Shuker: "The government has found a model of debt returns." What model? Privatisation of state-owned enterprises. All right, all right. It must be written on the income side of the privatisation income, on the spending side of the debt return. Some other model via the Post Office, but please, who's paying back the debt? A post office bank or this government? If he returns the Post Bank then and to that nursing home where these are shared, the debt return should not have gone to Sanader, but to the director of the Post Office. And Sanader went. So it's still back to the government. If the government returns, God's people must be in the budget. It has to be. Everything else is a cover-up, non-transparentity, a cover-up of debt increases. And that's why there's no such thing in this rebalancing, and that's why you don't see it here. Foreign debt. He was 19, now he's 27. Racan's government increased it by EUR 9 billion in 4 years. This government in eight billion in two and a half, three years' term. And he boasts about how he controls his external debt. Why did Racan's government spend that foreign debt? No one paid anyone. Everyone knows that, so it doesn't have to be proved. Well, that's what our people know. No one paid anyone in 1999 in this country. Construction of the Zagreb-Split highway infrastructure, and everyone rides it. Well, that doesn't make sense to hide. Rehabilitation of the shipyard. What have these 8 billion been spent in? Show those miles of highways you've made. The prime minister today says we've made more miles of highways than the former government. So I don't know if this man knows who he's talking to? Citizens of this country. Show those few kilometers towards Belgrade you opened the other day. That's more or less everything. You're boasting of good results. You've increased tax revenues. Okay, great. How do you rebalance them? Why don't you spend them on a debt recovery of Požega-Slavon County? 340 million kuna was made by your perjanica, former mayor of Bagaric. 340 million kuna. Okay. Let's move the roads, the road debts. Come on, let's get out of here. It's not the specifics of that county. Those debts are in other counties. There's 110 million kuna left. You have an SDP amendment, accept it. No, it's not Ronka's money, the new mayor. It's money for workers, officials in the county administration. They didn't get paid three months. Well, those people have kids. Well, those kids have got to feed something. So these debts were created by your mayor, HDZ Mayor Bagaric, sharing money with Zec. So let's let go of criminal responsibility, we'll come to that question later and not safely here in the Parliament. But please show your concern for those officials in the county administration and pay back at least a part of those debts so that these people can get paid for their honest work. What is the basic feature of this budget rebalancing? How do you spend that tax revenue increase now? Sure everywhere, but certainly not where you're supposed to be. The savings are on the program. And there's no area where you don't cut the projected assets, you want capital investments. HZ, modernisation and construction of railways and hubs, reduction by 26 million and 578 thousand kuna. Well, good, because you know what shape rails and knots are in? Well, on those stripes, people drive on those knots. You say you're boasting that you've increased investment in HH development. We kept telling you that you stopped the development of HZ and that for a few years Croatia will be driven by foreign railway undertakings, Austrians, Hungarians, Slovenians, perhaps Serbs. And you're cutting rails and knots. You want in air traffic. Development of air traffic 2 million 600 thousand kuna. You're shrinking in school. Capital investment in education was projected to be 50 million, reduced by 28 million and 500, more than half, more than half. You want programs. The development of the education system was projected 64 million 972, reduced by 30 million 162, almost half. You want to go to science. Program and projects of scientific and research activities, minus 13 million kuna. What do you need science for? What do you need research projects for? Such Croatia does not need you with this rebalancing and showing. Otherwise, you would increase those funds if you already had extra money, and you claim to have, that you picked more. So why don't you put it into scientific research? No, no, no. Only uneducated Croatia is the one Croatia you can guide. That's why you cut those funds for both education and science. It's a program to perfect scientific recruits minus 4 million kunas. You want to go to health care. Health reform programme. You're all saying health care needs reform. But now for the health reform program of 15 million 420 thousand projected, you're down by 9 million and 30 grand, you're down by 2/3 of the projected funds. So why are you talking about the need for health reform? So don't tell people about it, because people believe you. They think you really want to reform health care. But if you want to reform the health care, then don't cut the funding for it by 2/3, by 2/3 of the resources provided. Emergency medical attention minus 7 million kuna. Care for mentally ill adults, minus 9 million 373 thousand kuna. Why do you care about them? Let's make it right for them. Islands. The islands, how beautifully talk about islands, how to return and keep the population there, what care the government shows when it comes to islands. And now, water supply of Adriatic islands minus million kuna, construction of municipal social infrastructure facilities on Croatian islands minus 5 million kuna, expansion and extension of the waterway Mali Ždrilac minus million kuna. Improving health care on islands minus 4 million 690 thousand kuna. You want a Vukovar, Saint? Vukovar, home for older and powerless people, Vukovar was scheduled for 3 million 900, and reduced by 3 million, you left them 900 grand, so what's it gonna be? Well, then tell them right away. So don't talk about the sanctuary of Vukovar. Tell them you won't give them the money. So why didn't you say that in the budget, but in the budget you boasted about how you gave it, you set aside large funds for Vukovar. Government seats are held there. And now? Three million-dollar secrets, you take down three million of them. Look, two items that talk about what your work is and what your abilities are like. Support for the Republic of Croatia in preparing the fisheries development strategy to adapt and implement EU Acquis in part of the common fisheries policy. Reduced by 6 million, 14 million and 595 grand. It's a program to be prepared. You haven't prepared him in two and a half years, and now there's no money for it. So why do they need money when you haven't even prepared a program for it? Family centers. How much we've heard about this in lawmaking. How much we've heard about how big news this is. It was planned for 16 million kunas, you cut by 14, you left 2 million kunas. For the family centers you've been talking about here for hours as big news. It's, this budget rebalance is a picture of this government, of her work, of her wishes. As a result of budgets and budget rebalances of each government. But this picture you provided through this rebalancing really does not serve you the honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69617	Corrections to incorrect allegations. First, the honourable representative, Anto Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69618	a top actor in the presentation of his party colleague's speech, my successor, Mr. Mayor Ronk, has presented a number of incorrect allegations here, and he refers only to the one who brought about the losses of Požega-Slavon County. Obviously in the collection of pears and apples, adding up the health losses, respecting what guarantees are given for certain loans in the construction of school sports halls and other infrastructures in Požeko-Slavon County artificially attributes it through its parliamentary debate to my thief and the thief sitting among you. Dear Mr. Stazic, this is neither the loss of Požega-Slavon County nor your party colleague who gives you this information tells you the truth. So this is where you got the wrong information. The State Audit report, and what the minister was saying here, speaks of real data in the County of Požega-Slavonski.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69619	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Željko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69620	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister. Oh... We won't do the acting skills of fellow Stazic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's already known over the past two and a half years as we hang out. However, what is incorrect is either a fundamental lack of knowledge of economic science or a deliberate ignorance, which is how external debt arises and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is guilty, exclusively the Government of the Republic of Croatia to increase that debt. That is not true because a colleague named Zgrebec mentioned earlier that the external debt has also grown because of the bank's duties that the government cannot influence. So when the Croatian National Bank took certain measures to prevent this from increasing the mandatory deposit, then there was a complaint in the sense that it was a violation of democracy, market economy, etc. It is therefore an incorrect assumption that the government is solely responsible for external debt.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69621	Third Amendment, the Honorable Representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69622	Thank you very much. I suppose so many incorrect allegations fellow Stazic did not say because he could not read and not read the budget, but because of the broadcast on TV. But still to correct, no matter what the cause. He says the maintenance of the railways has been reduced in this budget, and he did not read item 1204 on page 160, which says that investments in the maintenance of railways have increased by 25 million kuna by 153,000 to his colleague Stazic. He said it was reduced for education, because this government can only run an uneducated state. However, he did not read paragraph (a) 579 on page 203, where basic education increases the item by 80 million 163 thousand kuna. He did not read on page 290 to increase secondary education by 35 million kuna. When he talks about investment, he says he's an example. In St. Vukovar, the world was finally taken away for him, 3 million for a home for the elderly, and I guess that's how she showed that she doesn't care about them. That's not true at all. It's not taken away, but the social investment is being monitored according to the dynamics of the event. Since the dynamics of events are such that no specific permits can be obtained during this year then what is implemented in this year is financed. The item is not reduced, it is only reprogrammed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69623	...respective representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69624	Article 209 of the President-in-Office does not allow for the possibility of correcting something that has not been said. Dear Hebrang says Stazic didn't say this, so Stazic didn't read it. This is not a correction to the incorrect quote, and I have read items from the budget rebalancing of those mentioned and named as indicated. It's the only thing that can possibly be corrected, not what Stazic didn't say.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69625	It's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure. You're wrong, Mr. Stazic, because Agent Hebrang was correcting in his opinion the exact claims.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69626	That way it can count from the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69627	You can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69628	What's incorrect?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69629	You can't comment or throw.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69630	These are Shucker's numbers I've been reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69631	Replications. Dear Representative Željko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69632	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Zdenko Antesic. I would like to replicate my fellow Stazic about a part of the budget related to this special part of the Croatian highways. You mentioned in your presentation of the many kilometers this government built, so in the opening speech of Mr. Prime Minister who said that many miles of highways were built. But the truth is next. The former coalition government built the Zagreb-Split highway and spent around 17 billion kuna. The pipes were punctured, so both pipes on the St. Roc tunnel and both pipes on the chapel tunnel. To equip these pipes, it takes about half a billion, so about half a billion kuna or about 3% of the total investment to have the highway ready. The present trip, here are the witnesses last weekend, that the trip on the Zagreb-Split highway is a pure perversion. So it's a kilometre column and actually what do we have? We have a highway we do not have, because the trip Zagreb-Split instead of the scheduled three hours takes 7, 8 hours and more. And wouldn't it be logical, then, that increased portion of the income be invested, such a small part, a relatively small part to finish that highway, and not that, in that item, I'm reading the figures from this particular part of the budget, for that part, it predicts cca 140 million kuna, which is for nothing, and so to build on the boards, so we build on a highway that doesn't lead anywhere and we haven't finished this basic part of the highway. You can tell me you're busy...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69633	Okay. Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69634	It is difficult for counterpart Antesic that this government will find rebalances and many budgets to equip these tunnels. Because as far as I read in the newspaper today, just to change the looks of the Pelješko bridge will take 50m euros more, and since this Peljeski bridge is the priority of this government rather than the tunnels on the Zagreb-Split highway, and given that those few kilometers towards Belgrade are more than the tunnels on the Zagreb-Split highway, I'm afraid that you and the passengers on that highway have no chance of hoping that these tunnels will soon be equipped.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69635	Second replica, respected representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69636	You mentioned your fellow Stazic to the islands. Here you see when the representatives of the government in the media explained the essence of this rebalancing then it was said that this is a rebalancing because it has extra resources which is positive that the government is doing well, it has extra money, so we now expected in the rebalancing that everyone will get a little bit of that surplus, but not the islanders have done something wrong. I don't know what those governments did, so they're getting married. So there's more money, and we're taking from you than we normally intended to give. And this is precisely about improving health care on the islands which a healthy rational man would conclude, probably these are too healthy, probably a lot of iodine in the air, climate-good, etc., eat well so they need them, the message is, you'll be sick to us, so the money they're promised to improve health care on the islands. But if they're something sicker or other citizens, how are we going to explain this reduction for emergency medical attention? I find it difficult to explain what happened to the government cutting off the islands in that segment which is one of the most needed because of the island's logical isolation or less connected to the mainland despite praiseworthy decisions such as the night lines. But it doesn't mean that if you put in the night lines that you pray to God that someone is more unhealthy and that they will come to Split or I don't know where.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69637	Replicate response, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69638	Comrade Jurjevic, you must have an understanding for the government. The government has some big projects, programs, here, for example, that bridge for Peljesac. It's like, as if we're Japan, we really don't know what to do with the money, so we're going to build such completely unnecessary projects. Today, when Croatia enters the European Union, when Bosnia and Herzegovina enters the European Union, the border crossings will only be symbolic, we will all be citizens of the European Union. And that bridge for Peljesac, come on, it'd be nice to have it, it'd be good to build but of some extra money. Since there's no extra money, there's a little extra in this budget, see how it's being spent, then there's more money to be raised. How are you going to get that money instead of taking it? Who are you taking them to? Always the easiest one to take. Always the one. Among other things, these are in this rebalancing budgets.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69639	Honourable representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69640	You say, fellow Stazić, that this rebalancing is taking away funds intended for the islands and that's what you're surprised at. The government has said more than once not just our islands but that Croatia must also be the centre of the Mediterranean. To predicate right on the Mediterranean with your development, and you see, now the islands are taking away the funds. The government doesn't care about the islands. Why? Because she left it to her poets, lyrics, painters. So Tin Ujević, a day-to-day wretch, and then she, too, together with her poets, can sometimes moan over the fate of the island, over the eviction, etc., but the money for it doesn't. She took the money, this is how her colleague Marin Jurjevic replicated it, explaining the situation. But not only that, I, for as long as I've known about myself, have been sailing ships from Rijeka to Dubrovnik, across Zadar and back. True, some of them had the names of the former state, but there were more Unity, more Dalmatia. They sold them out, we sold them out, they went into the old iron, and we no longer have regular lines of River-Dubrovnik and back. It's like Mediterranean land. This has never happened in Croatia's history, but that's what you've prepared for them now. Therefore, for our islanders and coasters, along with a declaration that Croatia must turn to the sea.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69641	Replicate response, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69642	Now, my colleagues, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, you would like a line from Rijeka to Dubrovnik, a regular, regular one. Well, I said nicely in my performance that the government is cutting funds regardless of what Dr. Hebrang was saying, that he was reducing HH funds to build a hub and repair the track. Building a hub and repairing the tracks. That's what it says in this rebalancing, in that position, and the funds are being reduced. So watch out, they don't give money for railways, and you'd like a line from Rijeka to Dubrovnik. You expect too much from this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69643	Next replica, distinguished representative Vladimir Stengl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69644	Thank you. Dear fellow Stazic, when you mentioned a home for the elderly and powerless in Vukovar, why don't you ask yourself or care, the company whose cousin got a job rebuilding that home and what did she do? My cousin didn't, neither was my dear colleague Brdarić. We were at the opening ceremony together.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69645	Replica response, respected representative Vladimir Stazic. Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69646	Nenad Stazic. My cousin certainly isn't who I don't know. That in this, if you know how to say it. Now you can't, say it in the next act by replicating anyone because that would probably be interesting to the public. In this budget rebalancing, too, it does not say that these funds are reductions due to relatives and relatives. It says here that the reductions and the estimated 3 million kunas were reduced by 3 million kunas for the construction of homes for the old and powerless in Vukovar. I repeat, home to the old and powerless in Vukovar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69647	Dear Representative Ivan Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69648	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary with an associate, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. And MPs, so yeah, I guess that's, that we're... Okay, I accept... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Well, here's an opportunity to change and supplement the budget to talk about a single area, about agriculture, forestry and the water economy, and to look back a little on the opportunities that are now in the countryside, agriculture, at all in Agrara. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't think it's a good idea for us to sow illusions in this House and get rid of real problems. Namely, we're in a very sensitive period, so-called The period of adaptation of Croatian agriculture and we have a great task ahead of us and the promises we have made or promises on the ground that this time we have to take advantage of that Croatian peasant, in general Croatian agriculture will be ready for future integration or better put into European integration. However, what is the situation now when we look around us and what is the state of Croatian agriculture? Believe me, depending on who gives the evaluations and the evaluations, it also gives the conclusions. However, to be on the ground, to come from the field and listen to the daily sorrows of farmers, peasants, I must say that we are approaching a state of general apathy, uncertainty, insecurity in the country, and a bit of growing dissatisfaction in the face of unsettled problems. Namely, what problems were to be solved during this transitional period? Rural development or better said resuscitation of the village means that the village is one of the preferred areas, one of the desirable areas where it will be nice to live, where economic activity can take place for the benefit of the first household that it deals with, but it will contribute to the general development of the Republic of Croatia. If you now begin to make a little analysis and walk through our villages you are facing a total devastation of Croatian villages, though not all over the area because there are some areas which are the suburban settlements that are already slightly urbanized, however where there is no near industry, where there is a little further center there is totally the collapse of the village, leaving the village and again the pressure on the urban environments. Why such a situation? Because the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, if we promote their budget well, is not concerned with the fundamental part of how that village is actually qualified and the peasant so that it can produce economically cost-effective to live in that village, so that it has its own infrastructure that it needs from water, electricity, gas, roads, sewers, not to mention all that it takes and ultimately to regret it is me, the most important economically justified activity. If we promote better now, there is a neoliberal capitalism on the scene that actually through the assets of foreign companies, large domestic companies destroys actually healthy tissue in the country because the peasant is actually now reduced to a single individual that nobody actually accepts in a literal sense as a value, but as a necessary evil, and in this transitional period it is not encouraged to grow, to restructure, to start being economically cost-effective and sustainable because for example, for rural development, we have now spent 30 million kuna and by the end of the year the question is how much we spend. I'm asking you why we didn't shoot 30 million people but 300 million now, which is why we didn't determine that our village as a destination, as an interesting notion for the rest of the village, for the sake of economic viability, works, in the end Austria solved it and so on. The border and border municipalities are informing him and the military and the police all the way and just to stay in the area to defend the territory against any disturbances. Furthermore, if we follow the withdrawal of funds outside such a big story and so promising, such big promises we haven't actually set up a SAPARD agency yet, not even those certificates that our people come, the funds are available, we should withdraw them, we don't know in which way, who and how and how and now we're reducing those funds and for this participation because believe me no one will give us the funds if this country doesn't cut off its share of the funds. I'm saying it for a reason because in the country, such indifference is felt that the village is left to itself and as if it only has to be raised, and that the state doesn't have to take care of it and actually doesn't give up anything. We did not at this time esteemed MPs and MPs have made a Croatian model and we do not really know what our goal is at this time of adjustment. Do we want to come in as Bavarians, Austrians or others into the European Union or do we want to create conditions in Croatia for Croatian peasants so that they can deal with the competition that is coming to us? What am I saying that for? Listening to stories about our average of 3 or 3.2 hectares of surface area per farmer, I'm threatened by the nebuloses that politicians are also simple, and experts are saying stupid things because actually farmers with such an average are not there. If the average is, what someone said about pears and apples is the number of acres divided by heads, then we make it easy, but in the country there's a whole other story and another situation. Our medium-sized economies need a little bit of security, means a market regime to be arranged, to limit this imports that are totally destroying domestic production, to guarantee prices in an economically sustainable area and to know who is buying and when buying, then it must be something. And now we're left with this little one that's now forced to disintegrate in a way that doesn't meet that three-hectare condition and they're reluctant to use the state budget. And the most important thing that is happening now is the promises that the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry is suppressing the storms and promising to increase incentives, the ransom prices that do not have a foothold in this budget because they are simply not provided for. If out of a billion and 700 million, if I don't count on it now, we've spent 77% so far, and we've spent it because we're on the pressure of civil society, so now I don't count on who's been there, paying off an incentive in the full amount for the last year, and now for this year, we're left with what, 400 million kunas is expected to be enough for these new promises that are now worth about 250,300 million brothers, to pay 50 million for milk every month on a regular basis. I ask you after the 10th month who is the new rebalancing of the rules and how the Ministers of Agriculture thinks about paying off the commitments they grow every day, they are who they are, although our law says one thing, and then a decision is made by the Government to, in another way, reduce incentives as to how much money there is and now the question is why it is not all a projection of this budget for the peasant to get one security to pay him and it is paid. I'm asking the public now because the government really thinks by the 10th month, and I'm guessing it's a wheat deadline to pay off an increase in incentives from which funds because I don't see them there? If there are other sources and other ways to do so, then it is clear beyond us, and I believe that it must still come to the Parliament and pay off in another way, and therefore my hunch is that it is not good for the promise of agriculture to adapt rather than for the real means, so I ask that it be the political attitude of those who are discussing it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69649	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69650	Thank you very much. I would just like to correct the false assumption that there is no additional means of incentives in this rebalancing and that the village is not understood as an area of special state or strategic interest. In fact, on page 140, paragraph 1185, agricultural and fisheries support clearly states that the aid is higher by 68 million and 750 thousand kuna. It is also not true that incentives are not increased because on the same page you can see that increased total incentives for agricultural production amounting to 101 million 85,000 kuna. Therefore, the rebalancing accepts the village as the strategic interest of this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69651	Replicated representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69652	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister! The esteemed representative Kolar spoke of insufficient funds relating to the segment of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, and I will undoubtedly agree with the esteemed colleague Hebrang, who said that in absolute terms this item is increasing, but unfortunately we are definitely standing firm at the point of view that this increase is insufficient and it is not enough. And that's why even when this budget came along very clearly with the amendments, we knew what was going to happen now. I know that then our amendments were rejected, there will be enough money said. But it is not evident because the government has now seen that there is not enough money and has increased incentives for the 100 million kuna circus. But I assure you, this 100 million kuna is not at all enough. The transfer of budgets and commitments in 2005 exceeded a billion kuna figure in 2006. One part of the money was paid in this part but only after the pressure of the peasant organizations that were protesting. It is not enough to justify that a certain part of the commitment was transferred in 2003 but should be clearly said that this part, without significant resources, will not be able to be resolved and this budget as regards the segment of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry is not sufficient. And it clearly shows that there is not enough concern for agriculture and that we remain clear on our promises. If we have money in that section for payment only until 9, 10 months, then how long will it be, how many delays farmers will unfortunately receive their subsidies and how negatively this will affect the overall agricultural production, we can only imagine all of them. Unfortunately, it's going to be very negative and we're going to be in big trouble for sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69653	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69654	Well, I appreciate your concern for the village and the peasants, but I assure you, ladies and gentlemen, when we project this budget, that we have proposed 3 billion that it is some kind of minimum that would satisfy these needs that it is. We weren't far from reality, and if we add up this billion 800 million that is now secured, and if the minister recognizes all the obligations that are now being accumulated over the year, we're at 2 billion and 800 million kuna. So it was realistic to expect if we were, I'm talking about political will now and if the village and agriculture are really on our souls. This is how I assure you that every day the dissatisfaction accumulates, that certain households fail and that we do not grow production unfortunately, that we do not grow except milk but it is a special segment in one special way that is organised and it is still good for now, how long it is a question, and if this way starts to delay the premium, it starts to pay off because our dairy industries are also leaning on this budget and fat, we benefit from the budget. So I don't think it's enough to declare support, but it needs to be in fact that support shown in the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69655	The next replica, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69656	Dear Mr. President, I generally agree with the reviews of the distinguished Kolar representative regarding the situation and the situation in Croatian agriculture. Unfortunately, there are no significant shifts, the situation is getting worse and we have less and more time because the closer we get to joining the European Union, which we will not have any opportunities to do what needs to be done now and right now, so as not to wait for the situation for the Croatian peasant to go even worse by entering the European Union. No balance sheeting, no effective incentives, no resources, no organised sales, and still imported, say, bumblebees for pollinating Croatian tomatoes, imports of hay, straw that had been imported before. And on the one hand, it says there is not enough resources in the state budget to do so. I now have official data from the Independent Trade Union of Croatia that says that annually the Croatian state means the state budget on cigarette smuggling loses 2.5 billion kuna and this is a production situation, for sale and real sale, all the data is known. The data is from both TDR and everything else. Therefore, it is said that, annually, you too, Mr. Minister, have not yet taken action. So, 2.5 billion kunas per year loses to cigarette smuggling. Which means those two 2.5 billion kunas for agriculture, for health care, for the welfare, and that's been happening to you for five years back. So two and a half times five, so it's twelve billion kuna. That's a huge amount. What would that mean for a Croatian peasant, what would that mean for Croatian agriculture? And no one in the state officially answers why this smuggling is finally stopped. We know ourselves in markets everywhere that happens and how it happens and on the other hand we know the situation in the Croatian village area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69657	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69658	Thank you very much. I thank Mr Kovacevic, and I think he has given Mr. Minister a great task on how to get to that 2.5 billion, how to do it. But I'd say something else. As a parliament, as a government and a general mood, Croatia should be our preferred destination. I repeat it because we're all fed up with this asphalt, this stink. A healthy life and a healthy life is now some perspective, but we're not getting out of the dead spot. The local community is left to itself as far as it can be done. The central cashier's here is very stingy and doesn't care about it at all. If only rural development were engaged in one segment but these must be measures that are strictly prescribed, said, the way they come to them, believe me, they would make a lot of it and have desirable destinations. We'd have places to live, not if our young people were leaving. And the particular problem that arises in the country is so-called. Remains, stay in the country or not, go with a challenge for work? The village must have all the content to leave the young man, not to drive him from the village. Who cares about that? Who's that program at the state level, let me know that we're bonding to it, that we make it unless the local community comes up with it. And that's why in this budget I'm saying on purpose that it's not a targeted village policy, it's just a slowdown, and it's actually a ceasefire or a better way of saying that if there's a fire going on, it's only then it's being shut down and there's actually no policy that's meant to lead to that worry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69659	The third replica, the respected representative, Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69660	I give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69661	Dear Representative Antun Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69662	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm going to talk about a cultural budget or something that should be a cultural budget but since it's falling as a cultural budget then I guess I don't dare say rude, but it's not cultural to expect it because it's totaled to say the relationship between the funds at which the Ministry of Culture and Budgets has become smaller and smaller and now it's somewhere at 0.8%. I remind you he's been over one for a while. It is amazing that this does not actually recognise some growth elements and some development elements in which very little funding is needed and therefore all of this is moving around 1%, and whose effects are incomparably greater than the large items of the budget and where it could therefore be done with relatively small funds much. However, certain animosities are clearly according to culture, and it is obvious that Mr. Culture Minister, my distinguished colleague, who knows how to count all debts, still after 3 years, lists the alleged debts of this ministry obviously do not defend his budget in a way that should be expected. So that I don't think... I'm just saying that if I didn't actually have a foothold, I'll tell you this: what's called the comparable items of cultural development, so the items that are comparable from different periods of budgetary policy and budgeting are missing 10 million kunas less. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So today, around 10 million kunas are less foreseen today than was realized in 2003. Given that we had a permanent growth which was agreed by some government policy to give more and more into culture and it grew somewhere around 10% a year then certainly what is 10 million less, and that was very much probably now one 50 million less than would grow a normal budget of culture that the government that normally treats the position of culture within the whole to so say some kind of development program. It's sad and it's a little misanthropic to watch some items come and can't breathe. The publishing and library activity today has less than 7 million kuna in the budget than it was in 2003. Seven million kuna, Mr. Shuker, if you pay attention, it's easy for you to come in comparatively for information, so you'll see that I'm unfortunately referring to harsh truths. It is interesting that something that we are very important as something terrible now is particularly co-operated with, on an international stage and so on, so there are three million kunas in the field of international cooperation less than there were in 2003. Please, in terms of protection of cultural heritage, progressed gradually this Ministry because in 2004, there were 50 million less on that item and now only 37 million less on that item. So 37 million less on the protection of cultural heritage. And so on and so forth. There could be approximately this kind of data anywhere from item to item. However, there is really something that is, especially be aware of this Budget Proposal when it comes to the cultural budget, which is that some items have grown. But please see how they grew? So the implementation of the programme for literary publishing and library was 54 million in 2005 but the plan for 2006 was 50 million, and now the new plan for 2006. 52 million so this is where it grew by 2 million and 400. It grew so that it was still 7 million less than it was in 2003. I can't be surprised, I know that every bill related to the government budget is how to say quite a challenge and certain tensions and ministers struggle for their budgets and so on, but I'm vague and I can't explain to myself that after 3 years the cultural budget is still thick under that budget that was in 2003. But that's why you're talking about alleged debts. If I didn't say all this, I'd say this every time, and every time that sad situation is the same, but I'm moved to make it clear I think what a debt is? So here's the deal. A real debt, which I found in 2000, was 7 million unpaid, not paid at the Pension Insurance Fund, which is clean so it can't be cleaner. I was then given the inheritance of the last day of the term of office of the previous minister of the signed obligation for three new films. For three new movies. And I didn't feel it necessary to say that someone had made me a debt. I just thought it was an extremely unfair procedure and it is an unfair procedure because for the past month, we haven't transferred any new obligations to anyone, at least in my ministry. But I didn't say it was a debt. And now it's said that debt is what is not long. And at the same time, they are not actually executed after three years and after three years and after a third, the budget is not actually given nearly the cultural resources it was given during that period. And in that period, it was given a little bit. This not only didn't grow but it fell. And we're looking at now and the controversy about this, there's newspapers, there's other things we don't have to discuss when we're discussing the Budget, but please, I hope this public thinks the cultural public already knows that because it's not at all controversial. There's no one there to convince but that the other public will hear that actually this government systematically underestimates culture, gives less for culture, that it now according only to these items that I've listed it looks like a total somewhere around 70 million kunas less than the cultural budget in 2003. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69663	Thank you. Replica. Here you go. The esteemed representative of the Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69664	Thank you very much. Well, here's what my colleague Vujic offered me with his presentation, which was mostly justified until the last detail. The fact that this year we have an increase of 900 million kuna, as we all said. But in certain segments, as well as in culture, and later it is visible in health care the fall in the execution of certain items is more than obvious. I'll just point out this trail of colleagues, Vujic, two things. The boat fortress, one of the best remains of the past time in our areas, would say brand not only of Brod-Posavina County, the City of Brod but of all Croatia from year to year for protection, recovery and preservation is getting less and less funds. It's no wonder I hear what it's like in other activities, and I believe you're extremely competent and you have every reason to believe in what you've stated. Another detail that supports only your allegations is the church John the Baptist in the municipality of Sibinj, a church that was built in 1775 and since '69. The year is a protected monument of culture. Despite all the promises, and if I'm not mistaken, this is the seventh time I've talked about it. To this day and this monument of culture has not been invested in any of the limes. I repeat, despite the great promises that this will be done. I said it was built in 1775, it looks like it's going to collapse before any lip to this monument comes out.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69665	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69666	Here, on the replica, I reply that this is all that my colleague Raven has listed as a result of clear sizes because if it is in the protection of cultural heritage instead of 155 million 117 million, then 37 million less. But it's interesting, then, that it's not enough of what's so drastically reduced cultural protection. Otherwise, it's open funds in all countries in Europe and it's not even asking how much it costs to do it, but even at the rate of museum-gallery activity in relation to the already previous drop in budget to 21 million now and down 2 million and 400,000 so by the way, I don't even know what items in this kind of thing, so let me say the ridiculous figures from the point of view of the budget, and the huge sums from the point of view of what is going on so we have a deficit. Now that's minus 2 million and 400, and on cultural protection as a whole minus 37 million.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69667	Thank you. Resume session is at 15.00 hours. The Honorable Representative Vlado Jelkovac is on his way. It's a 13,28 o'clock meeting. We're moving on with the session. The word has a distinguished representative, Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69669	Dear Mr. Vice President, representatives of the ministry. The debate on the budget, amending and supplementing the budget, the report on the implementation of the budget is always a grateful topic for the various criticisms of criticism by the opposition or for the different views on individual segments of the functioning of society. However, I will try to keep this brief debate on what the Ministry and Government have therefore both, and in their reasoning, and also in the figures proposed and provided as an explanation and arguments for which the changes and additions of the 2006 budget are being made. Positive economic movements in 2006 also reflected better budgeting than it was in the beginning. So, at the end of last year, when we adopted the 2006 budget, it was expected that in the first 5 months of 2006, 12.6 more revenues from the state budget were recorded compared to the same period last year. We can rightly expect that the revenue will ultimately be collected in a significantly higher amount than is provided for in the 2006 plan, and that is the fundamental reason why the budget is rebalanced. The reason for the increase in revenue is above all positive economic developments during last year, which confirm the favourable trends of most of the macro-economic indicators to be recorded. The growth rate of gross domestic product is expected to continue faster throughout 2006. We expect that there will be a good upcoming tourist season, i.e. the tourist season that has already begun, an increase in foreign direct investment is expected and we expect a further reduction in the fiscal deficit. Compared to 2003, when the deficit was 6.2% of gross domestic product, fiscal adjustment and reduction of the fiscal deficit by 2.1 percentage points were made in two years. The originally planned deficit was 3.2 gross domestic product, and this rebalance goes on and a 3% deficit of gross social product is expected. A little bit to comment on the figures that are proposed in these changes and additions. Therefore, according to the new plan for 2006, total budget revenues would amount to 94 billion 895 million kuna, an increase of 899 million kuna, and this increase is based on the planned economic growth of 4.4%, and nominal growth of 7.9% compared to the previous year, and is based on the results achieved so far in 2006. So, those indicators he's got for now. It also increases expenditures and expenditures from planned 109 billion kuna to 110 billion kuna and 100 million kuna, an increase of 413 million kuna. Within that mass of assets on the income and distribution side, there is, of course, a steady internal redistribution that I would now not comment on, but only in the conclusion of my presentation, I would say that it should be pointed out that, for the first time, the excess revenue is not allocated entirely to expenditure, but part of that surplus income is going towards reducing deficits and the way that it is possible to achieve both the meaning and the objective of the budget, which is to finance the available revenues as much expenditure as objectively possible in view of the available resources. Here are the reasons I said, of course, that I would support such changes and additions to the 2006 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69670	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69671	Thank you very much. Mr. President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Much has been said about this budget, or its rebalancing as a whole, so I will only focus on some items that have changed compared to the original plan for this year, and so far they are less mentioned. First of all, I want to look back at some business expenditure items. There are large amounts of items other than employees, services, unmentioned operating expenditures, no mention of financial expenditures and exceptional unscheduled expenditures totalling around €1 billion and €900 million and increased by around 3 million. The rate of road transport is €33.3 million, i.e. an increase of 3 million compared to the plan or 9 million compared to 2005 from which only to the Ministry’s fleet, sea, tourism, transport and waste development of 2 million or a total of 6.1 million, i.e. 4 million more for that alone than last year. The comment is really unnecessary. The team is scheduled for 42 million or approximately 6 million more than in 2005. Therefore, the aspirations and claims of reducing the cost of the state do not really stand sometimes. As is already the usual practice of this Government budget is again non-transparent in a large number of items. I would support this claim with some examples in a specific section of the applicants and users. For example, in the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship last year, shipbuilding subsidies amounted to around 430 million kuna and were highlighted by individual users. For this year, 398 million are foreseen. Only the aggregate item from which it cannot be read as far as it is intended and the shipyard has 7 and should not be a particular problem to show the distribution by users. But since only a third of the plans have been met in the first five months of this year, I am afraid that this reduced amount, too, will not be met by the end of the year. Within the energy system reform programme, the energy sector is planning a little less than €38 million, or nearly 4 times more than last year. You'd say great. But the realisation of 150, or 0.4% in the first 5 months suggests that energy sector reform and the development and implementation of the energy development strategy, as well as individual development projects, will be nothing again. The savings are also achieved at the non-implementation of promotional and development programmes relating to exports, consumer protection, competitiveness of the economy, investment in production and development of crafts, the promotion of cooperatives, the education of craftsmen, entrepreneurship and infrastructure, etc. Employment programmes and active employment policies are also very poorly implemented, so you can imagine that by the end of the year there will be not much left. Professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons is practically not implemented. And for the funding and co-financing programme of professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled people spent more than 8 million this year, the total of 2 thousand kuna are projected. And since relief and incentives for employment of disabled persons have been spent only 560 000 of the planned 36 million kuna in itself, the conclusion is that programmes and strategies for more effective integration of people with disabilities into society are purely declarative. I do wonder if such insignificant amounts really need to be cited as separate projects, and on the contrary, even tens of millions of valuable items are to be buried under the cap. If it wasn't tragic, it'd be funny. It seems to me that through these sparks, someone is mocking the dignity and wisdom of the parliamentary representatives. In the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development for the Regional Development Programme whose amount has been reduced by 76 million or 11% compared to 2005, investments in the reconstruction and development of Vukovar, the development of mountainous mountainous and special state care areas by more than 20%. But the implementation of these programmes in the first 5 months of 3.4 million or 4% of the total planned 83 million show where regional development is indeed going. I must also refer to the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, or more specifically to the head of sports. The total amount of this item was reduced by 9.4 million kuna from the plan, i.e. by 8% compared to 2005. I cannot read whether this is a reduction from the original budget funds or from the gambling funds. Of which, the funds for the Croatian Olympic Committee were reduced by 11 million compared to last year or 15% for the sport of persons with disabilities by 700 thousand kuna or 11%. Programmes to promote gender equality in sport have been abolished, the development of sports on islands has been abolished, but in the adoption of this budget. A new Sport Act was passed last session, with Minister Primorac saying school and student sports is returning to the big door. However, the abolished items for these purposes, i.e. the rejected sport incentive programmes on islands, sports at universities and universities, prevention of violence by sports in schools, and the development of sports beginners for children in extracurricular activities question the functioning and conductability of this law in practice. If we take into account the fact that physical activity and socializing through sport are significant factors for the formation of young people’s personality, as well as for their health, and the growing problems of violence, as well as for young people’s addictions, I wonder why such restrictions, especially when it is known that the means for sports in Croatia are still very, very insufficient regardless of these amounts. And finally to refer to the Ministry of Health and Social Services. For the raising of quality and availability of health services, 387 million kuna is initially foreseen, and now this item is reduced by 85 million and 22% respectively. Given the fact that I come from Rijeka, I would like to remind you that this programme envisioned the separation for the clinical hospital center of Rijeka's plan for this year was 34 million kuna. This rebalancing reduces this amount by 9.8 million kuna, or 28%, respectively. A similar reduction is in other hospitals, and this in itself speaks about where this government wants to go and go to health reform that we have recently discussed here and which is of the greatest interest to all Croatian citizens. Here's for all the reasons I'm really joining all those who can't support the State budget's proposals for this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69672	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69673	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here are the afternoons when we think and search within ourselves, of course what the Prime Minister and Minister of Finance told us on this basis is a single possible conclusion, and this is how the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, of course we, along with them, have stepped into a better and better life together. They also assure us that the Minister of Finance and Prime Minister of the Government, based on the numbers they pulled and who claim to be statistical indicators and what gives us the right to optimism. However, on the other hand, such an idyllic image cannot be trusted by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and the difference between the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the members of the Government is that they create a picture based on personal experience and on personal difficulties. As Parliamentarians, of course, we are now under suspicion to trust the prime minister and minister, or members or trust the people. It is because the members of the government and the prime ministers separated the bodyguards from the people and they don't know what the people think, but that's why we Parliamentarians know very well what the people think, and we are very often exposed to the criticisms of that same people for what we didn't do ourselves. Of course you can tell me now and who it is that dares to break such an idyllic image that he wants to convince us of. So who's that? I'll start from the beginning. First of all, young citizens of the Republic of Croatia who do not see the perspective of their own country, who do not see the possibility of employment after schooling, but look at their perspective in other countries and after what the Croatian state, or its citizens and its economy, have invested in training and creating human resources. Of course I can be told that the budget of the Republic of Croatia provides for means to encourage employment and indeed there are items, but if we look at these items then we will see that even planned ones have been spent, i.e. provided funds very symbolic 15.34%, 6.29%, 6.67% and that's what should make our young citizens optimistic. Of course he can't, so before the majority thinks only those who have very powerful advocates have employment opportunities. That's the opinion of the young population, that's their belief. Whoever still has the right to think about a different much more cruel picture of Croatian reality, these are, of course, persons with disabilities, these are persons who have been employed, but in working conditions they have lost their health, lost their health and as such they have become undesirable for their employers and we have also thought about them when we have brought the state budget and we have foreseen funds for both professional rehabilitation and socialisation, but again when we look at the realisation of these funds is very symbolic from 0.02% to 1.55%. So even that part of the citizens can't share your idyllic image. Furthermore, we have recently been booked with information about the return of debt to pensioners and perhaps temporarily, but quite temporarily, the pensioners have been deceived and thrilled with the return of what they created, which was created by the government of the same political options as the current government. However, this enthusiasm will pass very quickly, as the pensioners will become aware that the government has created far more debt than it is returning. What they have been paid is not only spent by pensioners but used to feed unemployed family members and their descendants. The amount will be spent very quickly, and when they realize that their pension is falling from the average salary paid by the Republic of Croatia, then the sobering will take place. Furthermore, who else has the right to disrupt that idyllic image? 311 thousand unemployed citizens of the Republic of Croatia. What does the 311 thousand citizens of the Republic of Croatia mean at the unemployment rate of 1%? It doesn't mean anything to them. And when we look at the budget again and we see the funds that are planned to encourage employment again, we see only the symbolic spending of funds and, of course, from this rebalancing of no new means, which indicates complete senselessness, impotence, and not the desire of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to provide these people with a job. Who else has such a different cruel picture of Croatian reality? Gentlemen have our masters. As much as we can assure you that there is no indifference in Croatia, listen to the businessmen and you will see that their main problem is indifference and their fundamental problem is their failure to function in the rule of law. And if that's their basic problem, and that's not my word, that's their words, then it sounded so funny to Prime Minister Sanader this morning when he said that these macroeconomic indicators give a big message to the ino-investors in encouraging investment in the Republic of Croatia. There is no ino-investor in the Republic of Croatia until the rule of law is in place. Furthermore, do the peasants in the Republic of Croatia believe in this idyllic picture? I assure you that they do not believe, because peasants in the Republic of Croatia have and receive much lower incentives than they have received before, that their production has been accumulated... Yeah, yeah. Just laugh, Mr. Minister, if you had a little hearing about these people's problems, then you'd know it's true. Repromatter has collected several times, incentives...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69674	I ask you not to speak to the Minister of Parliament in such a way.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69675	Well, then tell the Minister at least he's not laughing ironically, but if he finds it funny. If it's funny at least not to be ironic, I don't speak for myself, I speak for those who voted for me, and if someone has something to challenge this, of course they'll be able to talk after me if they answer the word. So these same peasants with whom the Government of the Republic of Croatia has signed an agreement, holding in the pocket a fig tree and believing that the agreement will never be respected, nor are the incentives provided for by law paid, for example by law is an incentive to the wheat of 1650 kuna, if they are paid it will be 1200 kuna. The further problem of rounding up the family economy, and thus trying to establish competitiveness with the European Union market, is the availability of agricultural land. It is this budget, which does not provide for additional resources, that does not remove the obstacles created in the agricultural land supply process. Furthermore, especially with an idyllic picture, the Slavons cannot agree on the reasons why this budget does not encourage uniform regional development but clearly show that in the Republic of Croatia there are regions that are privileged and regions that are forgotten. We belong to forgotten regions. He assures us of the priority of the irrigation project. The view of this budget of the irrigation project has nothing, of the incentives and development of the wood industry has nothing, of the creation of conditions for increasing primary agricultural production there is nothing, of the development of strong and strong food industry there is nothing and we Slavons really have no reason to rejoice or to create such an optimistic picture. So that idyllic optimistic image is just a government dream that the parliamentary majority doesn't have the courage to break.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69676	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Nenadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69677	Thank you, Mr. Vice President and Mr. Secretary with your associates. A well-respected colleague has said a number of incorrect allegations. I'll try to fix it quickly just a few. First of all, it is extremely declassified to claim that bodyguards have separated the prime minister and the government of the Republic of Croatia from the people, it is completely incorrect. And these data you're talking about and what the prime minister and minister said today are all kinds of statistics. Among them is a yearbook of the Croatian Employment Institute in 2005 and see how nice this red line, the unemployment rate according to the 2004 Labour Force Survey, 2005... Look how nice she's falling. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the unemployment rate is less than it was before. Thus, neither the government nor the prime minister invented it nor did they separate themselves from the people in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69678	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69679	Second.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69680	Yeah, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69681	Retired people aren't fooled. That's totally incorrect. The pensioners only got what was theirs, and you had no strength or will or opportunity in the past.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69682	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69683	Thank you very much. From a series of incorrect allegations I'll be able to correct at least two. First, it is not true that this government, as a colleague said, spent the same political options on pensioners' debt 92, 93. The debt was spent by a Serbian aggression that led to a 50% reduction in gross national income and the International Community giving us an arms embargo. So then we had to pay not only for the pensioners but for our employees, and for the most paid by those who had lost their loved ones, who had lost part of the body or had no home. Another incorrect assumption is that Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Shucker said, quote: "We all stepped into a better life". That's not what they said. They said only that they had created preconditions for good economic development because the reduction of budget deficits and every amateur economist is clear that this is a fundamental prerequisite for a future better life. And you quoted this sentence from the prime minister of your government who said, quote: "Citizens live better, but they are not yet aware of it."
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69684	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Tomljenović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69685	Well, an incorrect allegation of an esteemed colleague who said an idyllic painting was shown in the opening statements of the prime minister and minister. No idyllic image is shown, this is an incorrect allegation, but real macroeconomic indicators are shown that capture the economic situation in society as a whole. And your whole debate is about another incorrect statement that I'm about to correct, which is, I quote, "retired people are deluded by paying off debt." Absolutely incorrect, the pensioners are not deceived by paying off the debt, but by the government's commitment to the pensioners has fulfilled and fulfilled it, and in fact your political option had neither knowledge nor courage.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69686	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69687	Mr. Vice President, I'd like to refer to these exact allegations that have already been corrected by some of them. So, my colleague said the pensioners were fooled. First of all, fellow Members, that's not true because they're retired people with a long life experience and they know well who they can trust and who they can't trust. That's the first one. The other thing is, you're demeaning the really retired people in that way with your testimony, but what's the fact that this government has caught up with possibly the biggest problem in recent years, the political problem. This was the return of debt to the pensioners and finally managed to resolve it well, and the pensioners know very well what models are available to them to repay that debt and have made themselves very conscious of access to the problem. Also incorrect is 311 thousand unemployed. Well, it looks like you're still living in 2003. Take a look at the current statistics, and you will see how many unemployed are currently in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69688	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of the Poirot.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69689	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I have to say that in many ways I agree with what the esteemed representative Lalic said, and especially when she spoke about the payment of the debt to the pensioners, i.e. the repayment of the debt or how in the Constitutional Court's settlement it was written "indemnification". Are the pensioners fooled or not? I think they are. For what? Because on the proposal and the offer given to them to repay a 50% debt or compensation within 2 years or in 8 years, the difference is that practically the pensioners signed, under quotes, a court settlement to waive 50% of their debt. Here, in this sense, it is necessary to seek deception in terms of pensioners. What if the pensioners are tomorrow, if they're looking for the rest of the 50% in the next two years? Will they be able to do so and will they be able to ask the Constitutional Court to do so?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69690	Replica response, distinguished representative Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69691	Well, fellow Vice President, I'm extremely glad that you and I are absolutely in agreement. I couldn't even explain it because of the briefness of the debate. Indeed, the pensioners were paid only 50%, but the moment we passed the law to pay them only 50% after that, when the TV cameras shut down, when the journalists retired, we passed a law that changed the formula for harmonising pensions. And with this formula, the average pension is now falling from the average salary paid in the Republic of Croatia, and I remember that in 31.12.99, the average pension was 35.41% of the average salary paid. Then at least they could get the pension information. Today, we can't even get the average pension, but experts say that the average pension is now 39% of the average beach paid. And there's the seduction of the pensioners because when the pensioners figure it out, not that the state pays them back, but that by changing the formula, they're cheated. Let's not talk about what happened. New pensioners who retire after 1.1.1999. Well, they're not going to say that that law passed and that reform was brought by Racan's government. Otherwise, it has become common in this Parliament that everything that is not well anti-dated is attributed to the coalition government, and when it cannot be attributed to the coalition government, then it is said, come on, I don't know, the acquisition of weapons, this or that. Well, it's not exactly like that, and that scam is gonna be great, not that it's gonna be, it's not the future, it's the present. People understand it very well, very well recognize it and therefore do not believe in this idyllic image that is today convinced.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69692	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69693	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Indicators like this or as far as Croatia is concerned, some figures are clear and unquestionable. The average Croatian family with two children today covers barely 62% of its monthly needs from its regular monthly income. That's exactly how many 62% of the employees in this country are getting paid below average. When we talk about pensioners, then two pensioners with their average pension cover 55% of their monthly expenses, and when we talk about how much the pension rate is on average. Yes, it is true, 39% are data that the proportion of pensions is currently on the average salary of the Republic of Croatia, but colleagues and colleagues remind you of those new pensioners, today you could read the data of their pension on average is 29% with a tendency to continue falling. The explanation of why I will not vote for this Budget Rebalance proposal was given by my colleague Antunović in her introductory statement, so in my argument on behalf of the club, and I will still try to deal with at least some items in this material that speaks about the amendment proposal and the addition of the state budget from which, if you went to watch, if you went to see the item per item, from the ministry to the ministry, from the office to the office, then you must first ask the question that one part of our state administration is not working, because if you do not work under the items that talk about how many budget executions from 1 to 5 months this year, so if in a series of items you do not write anything, and in the other you write somewhere between 0.5%, 2.3%, then I ask what do those in those ministries, offices, administrations, funds, what do? Or is it then that they just serve as eye-stamping to all of us here and outside this hall when it's done, when we propose a budget and when we say that we give so many millions of kunas for this, for that, etc., and when someone has to do it, when that money is to be passed on to those for which they are intended then it turns out that the execution is zero. I'll start, just two, three employment sentences. I don't know if anyone here can explain it to me, maybe Mr. Secretary, but here it is. Says active employment policy. For this year, approximately a little less than 160 million kuna is predicted, and then it says in the implementation of the budget that in the last five months, it has been passed on or spent in something, some programs, or some almost 6%. What I'm curious about is what this active employment policy is about? Is that those programs the government says are new that should have finally started since the beginning of this year? If these are programs, then someone under those programs is doing nothing, and what's further at the Fund for Development and Employment if I'm not wrong about what, those items that are under that part of the employment seems to me to be still paying back the backlogs for former government programmes that stopped their implementation somewhere in August last year. The Professional Rehabilitation Fund and the employment of disabled people. I ask this government to say whether this Fund is finally thinking about working or not I don't think we're all going to start working together year by year, so this year we've even increased them because it's planned to spend 37, a little more than 37 million kuna. Please, by the end of the 5th month 2% of these funds and that 770 thousand kuna was spent in this Fund, and that please be nice most on intellectual and personal services. So I think I'm really wondering where it is? And we have the Rehabilitation and Employment Act of Persons with Disabilities, which we all agree is good, and this unfortunate Fund, the Director of this Fund, or I don't know who can't function in their work, and then, of course, we'll still have a problem with how many people with disabilities involve as much in their regular and normal lives. Or I could move on. Relievements and incentives in the employment of disabled persons, please nicely 36 million kuna planned for this year, execution equal 1.55% for the first 5 months. So don't tell me now that after this debate suddenly everyone will start working in these funds and things like this, and all the money planned to be spent on the general pleasure of everyone by the end of the year. Otherwise, the characteristic of this budget, especially for individual ministries, was that it was obviously in this budget rebalancing that reduced the funds to those who actually needed them most. They're actually the most indisputable in our society. So just look at the items in the Ministry of Health and Social Services. This budget rebalance definitely convinced me when I said in one statement the other day that this minister of ours is not a health and social care minister, he's just a doctor's minister, and he forgot that there's a whole big welfare system inside his system. If he has not forgotten, then I ask him how he could have allowed funds that are intended for social care to be reduced in this way, which are intended for those who need help most, such as centres, services, homes, who care about mental illnesses or young people or those who have certain behavioral disorders. When you go to look at these items, colleagues and colleagues, then you will see that they are mostly regularly downloaded as to the amount. Lately, so I don't have to just remind myself of all the currents that were related to that terrible event outside the house "Vladimir Nazor" when we talked about the problem of the welfare center, and when we point out that there should be changes in that section, that the centres should be teamed, and please, according to this budget rebalancing of social care centres, more than 6 million kunas are downloaded. In the articles of assistance for maintenance and care outside your own family, 10 million are all taken away, child care without adequate parental care over a million kunas. And the highlight of everything I'm going to say in this budget is the item that applies, I'm going to mention it now, it's the House of Children Slavonski Brod. Namely, a house was built for children, or for those who leave the homes for carefree children in Slavonski Brod and who continue their schooling. And it says here that from the 1st to the 5th month of this year 300 thousand kuna was paid at the expense of the current. I responsibly claim no kuna, no lip sits on the house. I'm asking the question now where are these coins, if they're paid somewhere where they're paid and if they're not paid how someone dared to sign up here, because then analoguely, I can ask if they're practically all other items, is there among other items of something that says it's made and it's not actually done. And when you go to look at the items of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, when you go to see the centres for working therapy and rehabilitation, please everywhere about children, children's programmes, where youth education is, for example, related to the reduction of risk management, when it comes to HIV and the like, these items are reduced everywhere. And to end with that, counterpart Perman talked about how under the terms of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports were reduced items relating to sport, to youth sport in primary schools, in secondary schools. Comrade Perman, there's no money. Of course there's no money, but we did, too, but the government and the ruling gave up 700 million kunas on account of those who already have and this budget showed that they take those who don't, because there's a need to support professional sports like football and how much money we've seen at the World Cup.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69694	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Nenadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69695	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm correcting the inaccuracies of a respected colleague that the Minister of Health and Social Care is a minister to doctors. I highly appreciate your concern and concern for those who are very difficult to take care of themselves but if you had a little talk on the ground with people and those who work in welfare centres, then you wouldn't just bring a flat rate based on this data from the budget that someone was cut off at the center. No, there's been a rationalization. They're up, they've been seduced by the order of the aid definitely. You don't finance ticket towers, you don't pay for what wasn't built. Therefore, there were savings and there are therefore reduced resources and definitely in the field it works.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69696	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the honourable representative Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69697	Thank you very much. It is an incorrect allegation that respected colleagues have been reduced by funds for social care. In fact, social welfare rights have been increased by 53 million kuna and these reductions at centres and social care institutions if you look closely are not reducing their cost of expenditure. These are reductions in business facilities because it has come to a change in the dynamics of construction. You can't get a license at some center and it'll be over two, three months later. But when you look at the total expenditure for welfare centres, they're still 8.1% higher with this rebalance than they were last year. And another incorrect allegation that the average four-member family covers 60% of the cost. It keeps repeating itself, it's incorrect. The average four-member family in 85% of cases has two employees and covers 120% of the cost of living and can only be explained how last year the savings of citizens increased by 5.5 billion kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69698	Thank you. Replica's esteemed representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69699	I would, without intending to open a controversy about the difficult social situation of social pensioners, warn however that this topic here on the agenda is not a polygon in which to prove guilty of one, the other or third governments and the crime of new pensioners, is not only falling on this government but on the Government of Matešin, Racanov and this Government because new pensions and pension reform are essential to one fact that took place in 2002. In fact, at that time, the lowest pension was reduced by 12.5% and today it is about 300 kuna, one of the main causes and generators of the lower pensions of new pensioners. And it would be our turn to start talking about different categories of pensioners and to interpret statistics as it is because there are great differences between categories and also between territories, so to the county and the city of Zagreb. For example, the city of Zagreb has an average pension of 1,000 kuna larger than the Bjelovar-Bilogor County. I'm just advocating the truth without wanting to accuse anyone but to look the facts in the eye because they're facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69700	Replication response, go ahead!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69701	My colleague Hrelj, at first you weren't at all in the hall when I, I initially mentioned the pensioner. Yeah, you all listened to it on TV, so nice of you to come and worry about it. I totally understand you, you're like a retirement party in a coalition with HDZ and with a ruling party. But I'll do it again here. The Crimean of Racan's Government is that in 2003 we left the average pension of more than 45%, I'm sorry, it's something that's irrefutable. Is it irrefutable that today's average pension has fallen to 39% of the salary. Yeah, I'm sorry, and you say it's not, so tell me what it is. And it is accurate that new pensions today are 29%. If you have any other information, it would be convenient to bring it out just like this in percentages, please. I wasn't talking about... I was talking about facts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69702	Replica's esteemed representative Mato Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69703	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Sobol has expressed concern about the state and perspective of those who are the most indisposed in this country. If we read this proposal well and supplement the budget then it is clear that we have two Croatian or two states here. Here, fellow Hebrang speaks quite differently from what is written in these documents. The fact is that the Ministry of Health and Social Care has received about 2 hundred million kunas of less funds with this rebalancing. You colleagues have listed many items, many of you have not even been able to count down, but the fact that prevention of addiction decreases by one million and a half kuna, that the health system project decreases by 5 and a half million kuna. The ambulance gets 7 million and 600 less and I could put it that way. But it's not just a matter of being reduced here by certain financial expenditures, it's in this budget of me and you're worried that it's something that's not paid. In particular, you mentioned the home itself for children in Slavonski Brod. This is a dislocated housing unit for children without adequate parental care or as we in Slavonski Brod called it a house of lucky bricks. It is the only project that has been made through the donation of many citizens not only of Brod-Posavina County but also of the wider. The investment and us, once again, thank our colleagues from the SDP Club who helped build this facility. Over 3 million kuna worth of investment. The only budget is 100 000 kuna from the Brod-Posavina County budget and the planned funding of 300,000 kuna from the state budget. It says here that these funds have been paid off. As far as I know, no lip has been paid for this facility, so here I am asking and asking and now Mr. Minister to at least pay for what was recorded to be paid by the fifth month.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69704	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69705	Comrade Raven, we have actually confirmed in our replica what I was saying in my debate. Everything I didn't mention, but now I'm going to use in this debate just to prove one more time, to illustrate that someone in this country is not doing their job. Or that someone who was in charge of implementing certain programs to spend funds. [[Milinović: This is not a debate, but a reply to the replica.]] It's a replica. The answer to my colleague's line to Raven. And especially when it comes to this part that you're talking about, which is the area of social welfare, social welfare and different programs, so that it doesn't happen. Well, look! About achieving a programme of social care and children with behavioural disorders, preserving and improving the reproductive health of young people, social policy towards young people, the programme of humanisation of hospital care for births and children, the single policy programme for people with disabilities, the monitoring of children's health at risk, prevention and early detection of breast cancer. Look, the blanks. None of it's done. I'm asking if anyone's going to answer for it?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69706	Thank you. Let's move on. The word has a respected representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69707	My colleagues and colleagues, exactly two years ago, a parliamentary delegation to whom I was pleased to attend visited the State of Waschinghton in America, and on that occasion we had a really good opportunity to get acquainted with the work and the way the Parliament of the State of Waschinghton works. It is a country the size of Croatia whose gross social product is somewhere around $250 billion. So, somewhere eight times more than ours, so someone's gonna say, so you're not gonna compare the Waschington state with the Boing, with Microsoft, with one Croatian. However, it does not matter as much the size of their social product as we are impressed by something else. There's been a debate in that country for six months. It seems to me that counterpart Tonci Tadic has warned of a problem in which we will probably have to start talking in perspective because this whole thing is a bit of a waste of meaning. This whole thing is a bit of a waste of meaning, so I'd say the lack of interest actually in the budget, the lack of amendments and even a half-empty assembly in the debate on the state's most important document is saying how much this whole story has turned into a cartoon. The Prime Minister comes in and gives a speech that he doesn't base on on any too high and serious data. Optimistic that it is not in itself bad, but without justification in selectively chosen facts, in a selectively interpreted way, in selectively done statistics. On the other hand, those who would like to prove something else also selectively use statistics, selectively use numbers and come into one situation that actually this whole story comes down to really the lowest level of politics, not politics. The budget is politics. In serious countries, in serious countries, in that same Waschinghton country where we were being called disabled, farmers, to hiering. That's where they're being heard. Then they make suggestions. This is where it's polemized around every position, and we're running out of positions that measure not by hundreds of percent but by millions and hundreds of millions of kunas. I'm not going to repeat everything that my colleagues and colleagues are, but here's what they warned you about. However, this budget, however far-fetched as our people would say, is to show what is likely from these opening statements of ministers and prime ministers, it was evident that we wanted to show that we are one of these goals, which is the reduction of the budget deficit. Everything was being adjusted to this very picture that she wanted to send. So, in such a picture of what was going on, it becomes evident also what fellow Sobol for a little while warned about the fact that the deficit had been achieved if it was a deficit at all because a whole set of expenditures and expenses were covered up. In fact, it is that I can taxively count that it went to the expense of reducing those items and positions that were the only ones who should not have fallen in education positions, which is what offers a better future or a guess for a better life than was said. This is in the position of reducing unemployment as our biggest problem, and we have found more than once that this matter will not be resolved by the automation of the market in some kind of "lesefer" situation but that the state must intervene. We had active employment policy measures that could have changed in some of our own measures. In three years employed or in 4 years their realizations 80 thousand people. Because some have left the labour market again, they have returned to unemployment. If we were to have a serious conversation then we would see that there may be some changes to be made, but in no case can we come up with an active employment policy of 160 million this year and spend 10. Sixteen of them. It's not the Minister of Finance's fault. I don't call him either. If it hasn't been spent, then normally it's going to reduce that position in rebalancing because it's not being spent, because it's not working. As we will say, "Active employment measures by groups threatening social exclusion allocated 4 and a half million kunas spent zero kunas." Nothing is spent. The Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Fund planned 37 million people with disabilities and spent nothing. That's $770,000 for the salary of the clerks, the electricity and the phone in that fund. We started it three years ago. And we have disabled persons who demand, it's a civilizational reach that the state intervenes and somehow helps employ these people. They can't compete in the free labour market. And the state needs to intervene. It's not the Minister of Finance's fault. But someone is responsible for what's happening. The Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, four years ago, has carried out a temporary analysis that we need to reform the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. We need to reform it. Secured money from the World Bank, spent nothing. Seven hundred people I remember will be in HZMO surplus. If someone had started that reform, those people wouldn't have been worried about their future, because they'd probably have a place among these 7,000 new employees who are employed. The welfare system, please 127 million less social care, not health care and social care, 127 million. I'm looking at that Sisko social work center of mine, and I guess we're gonna have to finish it. The whole term will pass without building one. It's not the Vinkovs, it's not here, it's not there. It's standing, it's not being invested. Why? It's too expensive, you finish it, so don't build anything else, but finish it, it's gonna go away. It's not such a big expense that I don't even mention all those facilities, centers that aren't made and so on. One more detail. It says sports programs during summer and winter holidays open school. Of the planned two million kunas, two million small things. Nothing, but it wasn't spent either. But I'll tell you the information. A pool opened 17 years ago in Sisak. Before that, every summer we drowned in Sisak on the river Cup or Audrey or Savi, we drowned three, four children. Those 17 years, none of them. The summer has come, we haven't spent two pissy, two million to train children for swimmers. So I'm saying, the finance minister can't answer that, I'm pointing out nelados, incompetence, lack of will to implement the reforms that need to be implemented and that so-called. The deficit results exclusively in the burden of disabled people, the burden of the unemployed on those to be educated, to be educated. In the welfare system, please the other day the clerk writes in the newspaper, tells a fairy tale, calls out to me, I don't know who, and here it wasn't spent on education, professional training, social care planned a million kunas, spent, spent one tenth of it. The sad story, here's the time, which tells me that the Budget has to be spoken of in a much more serious way, so much more seriously, it has to be prepared if we want him to have that function that he has in every normal country.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69708	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the honourable representative of Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69709	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, MP Vidovic said in his debate that the debate on the budget in this Croatian High House is ridiculous. I'm telling him it's not true. Mr. MP forgot that there is a Croatian law called the Law on the implementation of the state budget where the Government is obliged at the time when it is made likely that items of income or items of expenditure will be achieved by more than five percent, go to the budget. Therefore, there can be no debate in this House unless it wants to return the Croatian government to a state in 2003 when ministers could also make a breakthrough of the items of 700 million kuna not to inform either the Minister of Finance, the Ministry or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and that we are not talking. It will no longer be in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69710	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69711	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Vidovic from Sisak listed several objects that are not working. I need to inform you that we finally and with the Ministry have managed to resolve the famous central heating problem that while you were a minister has been complicated or completely irregularly set, but the fact is that we have also failed because of the fact that in the hands of the State Attorney's Office the problem of the Komarevo Rehabilitation Centre is the problem. We had the money planned, we had the Ministry's good will. Unfortunately, the state's attorney's office and the procedure with the project still fail to resolve this in Sisak. I hope that this particular concern and your concern as a representative and my concern is for all of us and for all of us to really start taking care of these people waiting for their place I would say under the sun, and there are more than two hundred in our county. get this object to management. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69712	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation of the esteemed representative Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69713	Mr. Vice President, colleague Vidovic. It is not true that nothing has happened these past two and a half years in employment policy. Unemployment decreased by 21% to 17%. It's an annual circus of 20,000 unemployed less than in previous years. That'd be the first one. Secondly, God forbid this government reduces unemployment as you did in the fall of 2003 when you did the following before the parliamentary elections. ... You hired young people from the SDP Forum in intelligence in September and October 2003. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the Ministry of Finance, Mrs. Bulj pulled up the solutions and hired people, and I'm sorry there's no fellow Church supposed to be here when he saw what Mrs. Bulj did he was screaming out of trouble because he didn't know what he was going to do. In the Ministry of the Interior, Mr. Now, I'm sorry he's gone, colleague Lucin, and then the Home Secretary hired several hundred young people and said these are our staff for the future. And not to mention the foreign ministry when in September or October 2003 you turned to 160, 360 degrees diplomatic consular network and set up and said these are people for the future to represent the Croatian state. That's not how it's done, and I'd object if the HDZ government did it in the fall of 2007.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69714	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69715	Thank you, Mr. President. Representative Vidovic said all items of the budget are discussed in detail in the state of Washington, which is not true. In fact, it is incorrect that the state he mentioned may be a role model in discussing the items of the budget. In fact, when we were together in the state of Washington, then we had the opportunity to see that salmon were being debated, the salmon problems but that some 6 million residents in the state of Washington had no health care, that primary health care funds were donated, so they donated to associations and then financed a home of health and that primary health care was carried out there in a former firehouse. That's not what Mr. Vidovic said.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69716	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69717	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Vidovic, you also called for a debate between colleagues, Tadic, saying that in other parliaments the budget is actually being discussed for months, including budget rebalancing. However, if we change that to our Parliament then I must say one regrettable fact that for three years now, we have been transferring our constitutional obligation to bring the budget of will to the government. So we will do so with this year's budget, so when we discuss budgeting next year for 2006 we will get a completely unknown budget in which all items will be changed because unlike the previous years this year we will give power to the government to change completely, it can change the budget. So it's not going to be the budget anymore as it looks in the rebalancing today. And when you talk about stopping and starting investments, then you don't have to be surprised. Investments start to stop, there are no new projects because everything aimed at reducing costs, and in such a way that they cannot, of course, reduce those fixed costs that are equal in the budget, cannot reduce debt payments, but can reduce project unrealisation because everything is focused on a 3% deficit.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69718	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69719	Well, very briefly, actually. Thank you for being able to confirm once again what you said yourself. That unfortunately, the Croatian Parliament, or parliamentary majority here, has taken away the fundamental and fundamental right to control whether the government is carrying out what it has taken in front of it as a responsibility or not. So, this trust, the limitless trust with the government is a matter of ruling will, and that is the difference between that former government that was controlled by Parliament and this which is de facto not under Parliament's control. That's the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69720	Replica, the esteemed representative of Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69721	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your colleague Vidovic, you were right when you spoke about the problem of employment policy and in the follow-up of what I said was actually programs, i.e. money intended for the implementation of the employment programme are not exploited. Well, among other things, you have an item that is generally called "Incentives of Target Groups of Society". For those who may have forgotten, they do not know what the target groups of society are, and for which 5 million kunas are foreseen this year, women, especially women who are victims of domestic violence, are young, that is also one part of the defenders. And you can see it from the program, from the employment action program. Please, for the first 5 months of this year zero, big zero, and no lip was spent on encouraging the employment of target groups of society. So I'm going to say, if I'm not mistaken in the last two years in the state service, about 7,000 new people have been employed in total. So I would suggest perhaps to this government, my colleague Vidovic, I hope that you will agree that these 7,000 people are engaged on these projects and programmes that have not done anything in the past five months. And finally, you were talking about the problem of perfecting officers and tenants. I'd say it's actually a problem at all levels. I'm going to use this replica to say from the millions of kunas received by the Ministry of Justice in this budget rebalancing, or no kuna went to an increase for the Judicial Academy, which, at least according to Minister Lovrin and the Director of the Judicial Academy, should be a central place for education and training of judges.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69722	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69723	So I'm just gonna remind my colleague one more time why active measures. Well, not active employment measures because every normal civilised European state has them. We went with these measures primarily because we found ourselves at the beginning of the mandate 357 thousand registered unemployed. We found 180,000 people working, and they don't get paid. So they're de facto unemployed. And we found an 80,000 new pensioners in 99 years. That means over half a million unemployed people. When we got things right, so on and so forth. There was registered unemployment in 2002 at 420 thousand. That was the culmination of registered unemployment. We left our colleagues 307,000 unemployed. Now there's a lot going on. So let's say colleague Babić Petricevic says, from 21 to 17. Among these hundreds of thousands of employees, the employees were certainly these young people from ours as they are called, from the SDP, the SDP youth who went to UDBA or as it is now called, I don't know POA, BOA, etc. As for education, there is no system here in any of the state institutions or state systems. There is no vision of how they will develop and therefore there is no need or notice what knowledge really means, and that is why I understand, in fact, the information about the reduction and the little money that is provided for education. Good companies and good countries are measured by it and different from bad ones how much they invest in human education.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69724	The violation of the Rules of Procedure is a respected representative of Nenadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69725	Mr. Vice President, Article 209 has been injured. The Replica Institute has been abused, as often members of the SDP club use the system to respond to the incorrect allegations of other colleagues in the assembly. Therefore, counterpart Vidovic has now addressed honourary counterpart Zdenka Petricevic to answer her question through a replica. So it's abuse of replicas in response to incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69726	I don't think Article 209 was injured. Indeed, counterpart Vidovic mentioned the esteemed representative Zdenko Petricevic, but he did not respond to her claim but as a replica of, responsible for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69727	But it's often repeated all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69728	Replica is a respected representative of Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69729	Dear fellow Vidovic, I am surprised by your surprise that the Government is surprised to ask you so quickly to discuss an important document such as budget rebalancing, and then quote and cite world examples of where the power of parliamentary democracy is measured and by the power of Parliament and its participation in budgeting as well as budget rebalancing. And didn't you listen to the prime minister this morning who was saying that the government is showing strength with this rebalancing? So I'd say she's showing a naked force, and you said about a particular case where you're very sorry that the construction works of the Centre for Social Care in Sisak have been suspended, and every mere and random passerby, the intended passenger, can see it. But she says an esteemed HDZ colleague that that's not true, and as soon as she says so, the team is up by the facts. So it doesn't matter what it is so it's not built, because it's enough that they say it's done, it's built, and it's really not done who cares. However, it is part of the damage left by the unfinished center. But the performers won't be paid either. How will their families and how will they have to pay government obligations? That's also one problem that this government doesn't care about.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69730	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, come on.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69731	In 209, an injured article. You have abused the replicas of your dear colleague, because your colleague Vidovic did not mention Komarevo at all, but was a colleague of Roksandić. Therefore, you cannot use the replica to replicate the corrections of an incorrect quote. It means that the replica was abused in response to the correcting of the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69732	I don't think Article 209 was injured. I am really surprised that you are surprised but I am not surprised that my colleague Vidovic will give you a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69733	There's this one verse that poets are a wonder in the world. I am not surprised because I am an irreparable optimist and believe and believe and believe and I am not cynical, I truly believe that in Croatia we will not only be able but certainly one day, one day, set up a system in which Parliament will indeed be Parliament, Government Government, and in which everyone will do their job in accordance with the Constitution of this country and the laws of this country. I really believe that. That is why I am amazed at those who do not realize what they are doing to themselves and the citizens of this country by disrespecting the order of normal conduct in all parliaments. As for what is seen and not seen. I've been responding to the fact that it says here that the Social Labour Center is planning 5 million and 400 kuna, and that 17 thousand 531 kuna has been spent. For equipment a million and 800, and spent nothing and proposed a reduction by a million and 700 thousand kuna. That's what I'm responding to. That's what it says here. And I'm passing by the center, and I'm walking past the mosquitoes and I see, now is the State's Attorney's Office, uh, hell, God, etc. Whoever's in charge here now, the government is absolutely safe,... [[The speakers speak out loud.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69734	Don't pay attention to MP Vidović to the polymize with representative Roksandić, indeed. The word has an esteemed representative, Marko Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69735	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Positive economic developments in the first five months of this year and better collection of state budget revenues have created preconditions for the government to propose budget rebalances for 2006. The rise in state budget revenues was reported by 12.6% compared to the same period last year. This is largely due to the progress made in the area of financial management during 2005 and concerns the measures taken to improve the work of the tax administration, the most significant of which was the establishment of the Office for Large Taxengers in order to monitor and better collect taxes. Therefore, the government proposed a new budget revenue plan based on the planned real economic growth of 4.4% compared to 2005 and on the revenue achieved so far over the past 5 months. Under the new State budget for 2006, total budget revenues amount to 94 000 895 million kuna. I'm asking my colleague not to fix me. 94 thousand 895 million kuna and increased by 10.8% compared to 2005, with 899 million kuna higher on the State budget for 2006. Of course, in total revenues, the largest and most significant item has tax revenues that are larger and amounting to 54 000 311 million kuna and are up 7.9% compared to 2005. And the most significant increase in tax revenues is expected in profit tax revenues that increased by 16.3% compared to 2005 and under this new plan is expected to increase by 585 million kuna. The income from the property tax is higher by 15.5% compared to 2005 and is higher by 32.5 million kuna. The value added tax revenue is 8% higher, this is for a significant increase and is higher by 836 million compared to the planned amount in the state budget. There are also a few other taxes that record an increase of 4.7% and more, however, since these are smaller items I would not say, but the most significant item is certainly the revenue from the contribution that according to this new plan will amount to 33,000 497 million kuna. And they're slightly smaller than planned, or they're smaller by 130 million kuna. Under the new State budget plan, total budget expenditures amount to 110 000 and 100 million kuna. They are higher by 8.8% compared to 2005 and are higher by 413 million kuna than the original budget, i.e. the original State budget plan for this year. According to certain groups of expenditures of the State budget, which is here with this rebalancing, we are now changing the expenditures as follows. Certainly the largest item of expenditure is the business of 96 000 and 0.67 million kuna. They are higher than the original budget, by 697 thousand kuna, but they are also higher by 9.3% compared to the 2005 execution. When little analysis is made of these, these operating expenditures then from the government's materials that are attached can conclude that the operating expenses are now going to be, planned with 17,000 428 thousand kuna, are higher by 142 million kuna. That the material expenditures were reduced by 59 million kuna, that financial expenditure was also reduced, that subsidies increased by 121 million kuna, aid for 143 million kuna, remuneration for citizens and households by 485 million kuna. So the government rebalanced as usual. Some items and incomes and expenditures, some have been increased, some have been reduced in order to make the budget for the truth possible according to the items as possible from the assessment of planned revenue or planned expenditure. I would also point out that very important items are expenditure on obtaining non-financial assets planned with 2 000 and 274 million kuna, and that is where the government has indeed made a significant effort. She cut that item by 266,8 million kuna. And a large item that consists of expenditure on financial assets and the payment of loans of 11 thousand 759 million, and it's smaller, here, for 18.1 million kuna. So I would once again point out that the expenditure side of this budget is 110 thousand and 100 million kuna. That it was increased compared to the plan by 413 million kuna. Thus, in the new income and expenditure plan of the State budget for 2006, the budget deficit was reduced from the initially planned from 3.2% of gross domestic product to 3.0% of gross domestic product. I think that this is a significant step forward and that this should continue to be done in business with the state budget. The reduction of the fiscal deficit with its debt financing on the domestic financial market will slow the growth of foreign debt, and will contribute to removing external indemnity, which, of course, would not explain further. I believe that the building and proposing of this rebalancing process has indeed made quality moves towards good governance and financial management of the Republic of Croatia's financial resources currently available to the Government. I will certainly support the adoption of the rebalancing of this budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69736	Correction incorrect, thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69737	Well, Your Honor, Mr. President, I am correcting Mr. Shirtz's incorrect allegations since, unfortunately, he is the entire report of the Finance Committee... Inaccuracy related to the income and expenditure side of the state budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's not the revenue side that was determined by 94 thousand 895 million kuna, it's 94 billion 895 million, as is not the cost side determined by 109 687 million kuna, but 109 billion 687 million kuna. It's just for the record because the board, the Finance Committee, made that mistake, and counterpart Širac read it, so now one would get the impression that it's about the budget of a smaller town in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69738	Thank you. Replica, the distinguished representative Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69739	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Representative Širac, I am pleased that you have recognised the success of this government, which has increased budget revenues thanks to a strong pace of economic development, especially should the government's decision to reduce the country's deficit from part of these rebalanced funds. I also think that we should commend the Ministry of Finance for the transparency of the budget, for expanding the single bank account, for taking measures aimed at improving the work of the tax administration, setting up offices for large entrepreneurs, increased focus on monitoring revenue collection, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69740	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69741	Dear colleague Majdenic, I absolutely agree with you in your grades, but since I never try to overstate in praise in my presentations, I still must point out that really visible steps have been made in the fiscal management of our state budget that you have spoken of and that is where we share our common opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69742	Replica, the esteemed representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69743	Well, here's fellow Shirac, I'd love to wash my colleague's pen, but I'm just replicating it to you. But he'll go... That's where they're going to bathe him, isn't it? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm glad you pointed out and recognized the actual increase in profit tax. Profit tax is a safe indicator of the development of the economy, I can say it in small because in municipalities and cities, profit tax has also increased almost 30%, which is certainly an indicator of strong economic development. I am particularly pleased in this budget, and you have also pointed out that it is very transparent, but let's just remember the budget of the previous government, and I'm usually misrepresented, on-call, I can say that it was so out of account outside the budget that in the end when all the sums of the results were significantly different from those they wanted to display. It's still transparent here, and it makes us all happy together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69744	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69745	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, first of all, I have to look back at the exposure so far, I've been listening to the successes of the SDP that they've done during their government today, then I'm listening again to HDZ's successes, and I have to admit that I haven't recognized any of the other great successes. If the SDP's successes I'm hearing about today were so visible, they certainly wouldn't have lost the election in 2003 but would have been in power today. So it needs to be real. There is no significant difference in budget interpretation even during the former government as President Sanader explained the budget today, so did Racan while he was prime minister explaining the same Shuker today, the budget and the defences, so Mato Crikvenica did the same. So I don't really recognize those big successes. When it comes to so many successes, and probably not even Croatian citizens. But so much for that. I'm going to look more at this most important part of the budget. We also know that the budget is one of the most important documents, i.e. even the law adopted in the Croatian Parliament, and that every analyst from the budget can see where the country is going, which, in the current year, can be expected at both economic and employment levels, and at the level of response to many social issues, at the level of development, capital investment and everything else, and yet the budget gives an answer as well as in which individual laws that we bring here to the Croatian Parliament will be implemented and how they will be implemented. But I say every government always makes a budget according to its programme tasks that it had in the pre-election section, it is now trying through these budget sections and it will best be recognised by the Croatian citizens themselves when seen as being in this year. I'd say more about what's a little conflicted. On the one hand, this government says that the goal is to join the European Union as soon as possible, and on the other hand we have a budget and we have areas in Croatia that are waiting for emergency reactions to improve the situation so that Croatia will one day enter the European Union so that it does not go against the interests of the Croatian citizens themselves, in particular the question of agriculture, the issue of shipbuilding, the issue of fishermen and all other things that are very important to people who deal with these areas and parts. Employment does not grow at a rate to expect Croatian citizens, we know the situation with social rights, which is why I would now look more at the further part of my exposure to this part of the income, I have been saying for years that the state must have instruments so organised and set up to collect what belongs to the state budget because then it will automatically be a smaller deficit and there will be a better situation and images related to the repair of the area, i.e. the situation in certain areas. And it can't be said that something hasn't been done there, the fact that the revenues for the first six months of this year are 11.44% higher than last year is said to be finally doing something, that's what we told HSP in the election campaign and about the issue of introducing flour stamps, coffee and all the other situations fighting the gray economy and I say some results are seen, but again it's not what can satisfy us all. However, there is still a lot of space, a lot of opportunities for the state to work as a state and to collect what belongs to it, and first of all, I don't think about poverty because the gray economy is always such that on the one hand it allows life and poverty, but I mean those large items that belong to the state budget, which, for various reasons, do not end up in the state budget. Here every time I talk about it, I mean smuggling cigarettes, smuggling oil derivatives, working on black and avoiding tax obligations for those who have a legal obligation. In the replica this morning I used this one part, now I'm going to try to explain. Namely, I have data from the Independent Trade Union of Croatia that have data and Adris Group on one side, meaning how many cigarettes are produced in Croatia, mainly in 2003, 2004 and 2005. On the other hand, there are official data from the State Statistics and Tobacco Institute, and it is evident that it is an annual smuggling that takes on alarming proportions of about 2.5 billion kuna. Here, let's just say the production data which is the official representation of the Adris Group that says that in 2003 it was produced we have in pieces, that's 15 billion 538 million pieces of cigarettes. According to official data, 8 billion 92 million were sold in Croatia and 11 billion were spent on consumption data. So there is this visible important difference that can easily be obtained if the data is taken from the Adris group, if the data is taken officially as sold in Croatia, as sold abroad, and that refers to five years back. That means 2.5 billion a year, multiply by five, that's $12.5 billion. And I think that these data are available, that they were delivered to the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the situation is quite serious, and I expect responsible behaviour from competent authorities, competent inspections because the data are also available for, say, production and sales to 20 cigarettes, we know that there are in one box. For example, it was manufactured in 2003. 776 million 217 thousand 392 boxes have been officially sold in Croatia 404 million 646 thousand 892 boxes and 555 million 200 thousand boxes have been sold realistically. So the difference is pretty big. And you're doing it from year to year. These are all meaning official data taken from the Adria Group, official sales data in Croatia as paid in the state budget, as far as it was exported, imports were quite small and then again official data on how much cigarettes were spent from the tobacco institute and from the State Statistics Institute. That's the situation, and with oil and oil derivatives, even though I say the situation is getting better. So that's what I expect to finally and in this part of the rule of law, because this isn't about the gray economy or the black economy where ordinary people do the mere survival work out how to feed themselves and their family. This is essentially a major crime where the state suffers, where it suffers both the state budget and all the users of the budget. What does it mean to give 2.5 billion a year in agriculture, which means to give 2.5 billion for various different capital investments, which means to give in the economy? This automatically means opening new jobs, it automatically means increasing gross domestic product, it means better purchasing power, better standard of Croatian citizens. So I think we should focus further discussion on the state and the finance ministry saying even though there are results, it can't be said that there's no part of it but now to move on to these big things where the state budget is stolen and where someone uses that part blurryly and then part of the dividends, divides the profits and says everything is wonderful and wonderful. Therefore, there is a possibility and therefore this deficit of the budget would be much smaller and this deficit would be taken away by what the state belongs to and is visible only from this example, so I have all the data from 91 to today and which says that the greatest culmination of this smuggling occurred from 2000 and today it is increasing from year to year. So it's official data and we expect responsible behavior. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69746	Thank you. The word has the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69747	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Listening to today's debate and based on the great progress of all economic indicators, I'm actually unhappy. I thought when we were creating a Croatian state, we'd all be looking forward to her creation, so I was wrong. Then after that, I thought we'd all be looking forward to her progress, so I guess I'm wrong again. According to these indicators and the reasons for today's budget rebalancing, however, more should be looked forward to than they are looking forward to today's debates. The data is very clear. If we do not trust the Croatian Institute of Statistics, then we trust independent macroeconomic escorts and indicators such as the Privredna banka Zagreb. They don't cheer for any government. They said clearly and loudly that in the last four years, Croatia has made the biggest leap in gross national income either per capita or per capita. I quote: "In the last four years since 2003 to 2005, so three and a half years, Croatia has increased gross national income per capita by 23%.". But they didn't know this information about a 6% increase in the first six months of this year. Now it's an increase in the last three years 32%. It is the largest increase in gross national income in Europe in the last three years. It's bigger than, for example, I'm talking about 2005, bigger than the increase in gross national income in Hungary, Poland, Slovenia, Italy, France, Germany not to speak because they haven't had it in two or three years. And if these 6% are taken into account, then it is the largest increase in gross national income in the first half of Europe by counting the European Union and countries outside it. Well, I don't know why we shouldn't be looking forward to it. After all, there must be others rather than economic motives. This budget rebalance after this short introduction can be characterised as a major achievement of the current government, a target of 3.0 budget deficits, only after three years and taken over with a deficit of 6.7%. So this is a difference that no country in Europe has achieved, including the European Union. I think that's the thing we should say hello to and to which we should congratulate this government. Now someone's gonna say and what does that mean when Minister Schucker says we'll only have a budget deficit of 3.0%, so what do we care? Well, then we should reach out to the economic textbooks, or at least talk to the experts. I learned what I know in Ireland. When I asked them what was the main cause of the Irish miracle with an increase of 10% of the national income there since the last decade then they said three are the main reasons. One reason is your tax policy. Your second is social dialogue and political stability. And your third is a small deficit of the state budget." So it's definitely a category that drives the economy and without which there are absolutely no foreign investments and no long-term plans for domestic investors. And thanks to a large part of this government's budget policy, we can say with pleasure that gross national income has reached 6% of the annual growth. What is still to look forward to from these indicators is that this, gross national income did not grow due to increased borrowing dynamics as it was in the previous period, rather than just production and this increase in industrial production. I remind you of the production of food and drinks increased last year by 7%. Manufacture of machines and devices 17.7%. Tourism, number of foreign guests 7%, overnight 8% and so on. So increasing productivity and increasing the number of services are the basis of this increase and that is what promises a better future even for those who are not looking forward to it. As a result, the number of unemployed fell at a rate of 15 to 20 thousand a year, and the forecast is now already on the basis of the first six months, it can be said that this year will be twice as much. The retail trade is also on a steady rise, which is a good indicator. Now it's already over 3% compared to last year, and it's an interesting data for wages. The average salary in Croatia is now 4000 and 400 kuna. Six months ago she was 230 kuna smaller. Well, for those of you who aren't looking forward to it, it's a 5% salary increase in the first six months of this year. Finally, the standard of course doesn't feel right now, but this kind of take-off must take years. In addition, I mentioned earlier in the debate that savings and kuna deposits of citizens increased by 5 and a half billion or 24 percent. Well, that still means that somewhere in the near future, there's a rise in our standard. Thanks to good revenue collection in the first six months, Minister Shuker has raised nearly 900 million kuna more. What did he do with that money? Well, he could use that money to increase spending and say, "Here we are." But the government did a much more rational thing and said, "Let's show the world that we are better than most European Union members. That we can enter a 3.0% budget deficit on our own." Some very rich countries would be very pleased to be within these frameworks. This is more important for us than for them because we are at the start of economic development and they are already on the take-off for several decades. What should we also mention here is how revenue increases were achieved? This increase in income was achieved by 7.9% better tax collection. Of which income tax 7%, profit tax 16.3%. VAT plus 8%. It contributes 7%. For healthcare even 7.3, pension 6.7, employment 7.7. These are indicators that the results of this government's three-year work are very good, that they are measurable and that they are in some way indicators and development of the economy in the future. And now that we have proven that we can treat our budget much better than richer than we are, when we have shown that we can not spend more than we produce than we will be able to manage our own destiny then we can say that we are also thinking about breaking the "stand by" arrangement with the IMF in the future. Now that we've proven it ourselves, we'll have an accomplice on their side. As long as we cheated on the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and so on with its budget expenditures until then, of course, there was no trust in Croatia. And now something about those who say that this rebalancing has failed again. This rebalance of course that certain items have been abolished but because there has been restructuring within individual ministries. Not a single ministry in total will remain damaged, and I think that's the point of this rebalancing that actually means in some way seducing a new order. I'll just mention that the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity at the disability and family pension rate gets 13 and a half million more. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy receives 55 million and 330 thousand more. It must, tourism 25 million and so on. The health ministry is losing part of its position due to the investment dynamics reprogramme. Do not lose on social benefits because they have increased by 53 million 27 thousand item 1, 2, 6, 8. Page 2, 4, 5 to those who need to do it over and over again. And none of the investments will be stopped. They'll only be in dynamics moved. In addition, it says that KBC Rebro will also receive 49 million kuna. That Rijeka will get 24 million kunas. The shift and dynamics is because a public private partnership is being prepared that will compensate Rijeka for the total investment for the new hospital. KB Split for the birthplace of 23 million, Dubrava for cardiosurgery 18 million, KB Mercury for the construction of a new Transplant Centre which will save hundreds of lives a year 18 million and so on. And that I HZZO gets a new 430 million kuna for current expenditure. Therefore, it can be said in the conclusion that this government should be congratulated, that it should be supported, that it should be supported by the spirit of optimism that the Government is putting into the economy with its moves, because this spirit of optimism is also highly ranked in the reasons of rapid economic development. In conclusion, these indicators, too, show that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has started Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69748	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69749	Mr. Vice President, I would like to stress the following: budget rebalance or budget structure causes numerous controversy, but it is certainly necessary to highlight the choice of budgets as a political choice. It's political law, the right that belongs to the government that won the election. Certainly, when it comes to the structure of this Budget, then it is not about any formal mathematical problem of optimization and the distribution of limited resources to all those who are asking for much more than it is about a practical and simple political problem through which each government is trying to optimise its chances, so it gets new elections. And that is why it is understandable and dissatisfaction with the opposition because this budget has indeed made a good political choice for limited state resources, the resources of the state budget to best distribute to all those who seek and need it. And it's a political choice and it's political freedom. But what is important and especially important should be highlighted when it comes to the budget, budget rebalancing, budget structure and, in fact, the macroeconomic framework within which all this is happening. And it is a great pleasure to conclude that 6% of GDP growth, deficit control, is an important macroeconomic framework that gives credibility to all of what is being said today. But in the end, I want to point out, not only this macroeconomic framework but also beyond, the political framework on the international stage is very important when it comes to the budget. Therefore, the Croatian government has a lot of satisfaction today when it comes to the budget, and it is understandable that there are also many reasons for dissatisfaction on the other side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69750	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69751	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague of Hebrang's said here he's sorry we're not looking forward to it. And I wouldn't agree with him here. I think we're all looking forward to just doing it in different ways, some of us digging up, others protesting, the third one I don't know doing this or what, yelling, yelling. But I believe in their inner pleasure that can be recognized when on their faces after the debate. Namely, my colleague Hebrang is here, I must commend him, with great pride talking about comparing these successful macroeconomic indicators with other countries and developed countries, and if he hadn't mentioned that we had been without tourism for 10 years, he didn't mention war, he didn't mention reconstruction, he didn't mention destroyed houses, churches, schools that were being restored, and if he had taken that into account, then that success would have been significantly greater. For example, he also did not mention what this government is experiencing every day, and that it must pay according to court rulings non-compliance with the requirements of collective agreements signed by the former government with different ministries, with, e.g., The school union eats. Because we know that every minute a school is blocked, so the government has to intervene, because people can even work there. So he didn't mention the whole series that this government successfully solves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69752	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69753	Thank you very much. I am pleased that my dear colleague thinks that others are looking forward to us looking forward to the government and that is very positive for Croatia's overall development. But I'm afraid on their faces you can't read it. But it will be read safe when another year of this term of office continues with this dynamic and this pace, because then we will be very proud that we are the past rise in the gross national income of the European Union by 4 times or 400% annually. And this will not be commendable to any other country in the region or across Europe. Because what you should say, these economic indicators, and that's what counterpart Cosic said, of course, is that they are also a means of political struggle for the next election. But in that context, as far as I can tell, no one has mentioned them with a saying today. That's understood, politics is everything, including budget. But it should be added to this fact that this budget has been adopted under very difficult international economic circumstances. A large accumulation of oil that is as energy involved practically in every product and service, which has led exactly to the fall of indicators in neighbouring and wider countries. Even that one failed to corrupt these good economic indicators. I think additional optimism could only speed up Croatia's launch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69754	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative, Ivan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69755	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister with his associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'll be honest with you. When I got the materials for the rebalancing of this budget, the changes and additions I was happy, I said finally one real budget, a rebalancing that goes on more and the debate will certainly take very short. So I'm uncomfortablely surprised by the way in which individual representatives approach negatively in relation to this budget. Here's a man who's been in politics for 15 years, like all of you and the mayor, the mayor, the vice president, and I know how they behave both opposition and power in budgeting. It's a political document, one political game, but I thought, come on, let's all enjoy this progress together, what counterpart Markovanovic said at least that inner pleasure. And as a man, I wonder what would happen if we had to go to changes and budgets, that we had to cut it by 10 billion kuna. What if economic growth were less than expected, what if the deficit of the state budget were going up, and not down, what would be the debate then? And what if the unemployment rate increased? Thank God it's not like that, it's not because this government, this ruling majority, chose social dialogue at the beginning of its term, chose economic growth, chose a stable fiscal policy. And all that government is amongst other things that I've mentioned this chooses to make this happen. As far as social dialogue is concerned, I think we must all honestly admit that there are not so many social unrest, that there are not so many workers on the streets, that this government is aware and aware of its mistakes which, if they make them confess them and try them in a social dialogue with social partners and address the satisfaction of all those who do or who do not. The growth of the economy is visible from all data and that is certainly what makes us happy. And what his colleague Hebrang said and this is an example in the more developed countries of the European Union. A stable fiscal policy is certainly what this data is if it trusts me or doesn't believe it certainly shows and it is usually so when we are in power then we believe it, and when we're in opposition, then we don't trust the Bureau of Statistics, not the Faculty of Economics, not the Economic Bank, not the National Bank, and also this information was told by the governor of the National Bank when he had a report on the work of the National Bank. So if we don't trust three sources of data, then I don't know, let's set up an independent body to test it. What is certainly happy is that the increase in the budget is due to stable fiscal policy and growth in the economy is glad that the income from the profit tax is increased. So, the situation in the economy in the past period, even in this year, is certainly better. Our masters, whether they're small or large, are showing an ever-increasing profit. And also Croatia becomes a destination for increasing investment of foreign capital or whether we liked it or not. While I'm at the economy, I'm just gonna compare some data, which is what I'm offered to discuss with some colleagues. With the Ministry of Economy compared to the data in 2000 and 2006. The total budget in 2000 to 2003 for the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of craft, small and medium-sized enterprises, since it was then two ministries, amounted to a billion and 942 thousand kuna. The total budget for these ministries together for the period 2004 to 2006 is 2 billion 388 thousand kuna, which is 22% higher in these three years compared to those four years. Implementation of the budget in 2000-2003. the year was billions and 992 million kuna, and during that period substantial funds were invested in the privatisation of large enterprises. The implementation of the 2004-2006 budget is 2 billion 382 million kuna or 99% of the total budget. In the period 2004-2005, in the subsidisation of the shipyard, and many said it was suspended, a total of 710 million 306 thousand were spent, while in 2000-2003, a billion and 58 million were spent for subsidies, showing that only two years had already been given 67% of the total subsidy given in 2000-2003. In order to promote the development of entrepreneurial zones in 2002-2003, 72 million kuna were allocated while 132 million were allocated in 2004-2005, an 83% increase. In order to promote exports and performances at fairs and abroad craftsmen and businessmen between 2000 and 2003, 33 million 800 thousand were singled out, 16 million and 400 have been singled out so far in 2004. A total of 3 million 280 thousand were spent for the establishment of the craft register in 2000-2003, and a total of 7 million 450 thousand were spent in 2004-2006, which is an increase of 227% more than in the past period. To encourage the development of the entrepreneurship of women, young people and beginners, it is said that this government does not work, that the item is zero. For the period 2000 to 2003, 3 billion 350 million were spent, and for the period 4-6, 12 million 260 thousand or 360% more were spent on these activities. It is evident from this that the Government is doing through both the budget and through its social dialogues what it has given in its programme for the satisfaction of us here, and I hope that the entire Croatian people and certainly that this budget deserves those who work on it, too, deserves praise, and I will certainly vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69756	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69757	You tell your colleague Vukić you are looking forward to this budget rebalancing, and then you are still surprised that no one from the opposition is looking forward to it. I have to tell you, I'm not looking forward to it. I'm not looking forward to it, for example. Because improving, improving health care on islands has reduced the budget by 4 million and 690 thousand kuna. You're looking forward to it. Well, you're looking forward to it. Which is reduced by a thousand kuna for the water supply of Adriatic islands, and that is what you look forward to. Which for the construction of municipal infrastructure facilities on islands is reduced by 5 million kuna and you look forward to it. Well, you're looking forward to it. Which leaves only 900 thousand kuna for elderly and powerless persons in Vukovar, and that is what you look forward to. It's all a source of joy for you, but you look forward to it. The islanders certainly don't look forward to it, the Vukovars certainly don't look forward to it, and you look forward to it, you praise this government. That's how I might even believe you if you could be trusted, because you said among other things that you would pay the lamb for all the MPs in the Parliament, you didn't, you couldn't be trusted, so then, even when you praise the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69758	No, he didn't say when. So don't call that, he said he'll pay, he'll do it, knowing he'll definitely do it. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69759	Sir, I will agree with you in part, I always say so, because by reading the budget, we can always take items from the opposition and from the authorities and compare them. This was done at 55%, but it's only been five months, and it's done during your power 225%. I'm asking you what's better. Is it better to spend what is not or not to spend what there is no program yet, or will there be funds raised from a foreign fund like in Vukovar with a Vukovar hospital, for the island's progress or to spend what is not in the budget, so it is covered by some budget of the ministry that was very much. As for the development of the island, you have read one item about the development of the island, and you have not read all that is in the development of the island. So just remember that recently the night ferry lines were introduced, that the islands were better connected. So do we still have to invest so much in health care on the islands if we have more lines now? Another infrastructure is being developed, islands are getting closer to the interior and certainly those items within the budget must be moved. As far as lambs are concerned, I don't trust you, you've just declared your support. When there's a vote on the election, when there's a vote on the election, when there's a vote on the election, if you support it, I'll pay for the lamb, I trust you, because I know that the party has always bought for the lamb. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69760	There will be consensus on the lamb. You can't lift a replica now. Honorable representative of Peronja. Looks like the lamb woke up the replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69761	Yeah, yeah. Many. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with his associates. My colleagues and colleagues, my colleague Vukic, has not been precise enough. I will only say some data from the Split-Dalmatia County where it is said that on Vis there is an ambulance of 12 million kuna, that in Jelsa, Hvar, the island of Hvar, is completed by 19 million kuna. That for roads on Croatian islands, I will say what I know best, scheduled for the modernisation of the state road Jelsa-Poljica 30 million kuna. That nightlines were introduced, that there was no waiting hour because Jadrolini had received enough funds to arrange that transport. The sewerage system of Jelsa, Starigrad, Vrbovska, over 38 million kuna. All of this can be read in the budget, and I am very glad that even the unsaved are worried, only poorly read this budget where the Croatian Government promises what it does. Let's keep it that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69762	Replica, a respected representative of Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69763	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, let me just say what my colleague Peronja started, to explain in fact what all this government has done in the past term in these three financial years, i.e. two and a half years of the term of office of this government. So far, 600 million kuna has been invested in the development of the island. The former government invested 300 million in its term of office in 4 years. It's like this globally said. If we go into detail, the development of the island is very much invested. Here, a colleague has now pointed out something, and I would say, vignettes, subsidies for the transportation of islanders. A number of ports and ports have been renovated, subsidies to employers from the island's employment island. The system builds water supply, draining, schools, infirmarys, kindergartens. However, counterpart Anticevic and counterpart Stazic in their cheap politics do not want to read from the changes and the addition of the budget that is further invested in the development of the island but rather say the island's development ceases, that it is not investing enough. So forgive me, why didn't you read in these changes and budget additions to increase the items for connecting the island to the mainland in the amount of 252 thousand kuna. That a million kunas increase the item for encouraging island road transport, that 5 million kunas increase for the development of the island, etc., etc. So is it the development of the island or is it to contain the development of the island?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69764	Ivan Vukic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69765	My colleague Brnadić, I absolutely agree with you that this government has invested 600 million kunas in the development of the island, but personally as a man, I will be more pleased when the islands are at the stage of development as well as the internal Croatia or as a coastal Croatia, as Dalmatia, because it will surely need to invest even less in the development of the island because they will be at the stage of development as the rest of Croatia. So I also think that the Peljesac Bridge, which is in this government's project from Peljesac, will make one more developed, much more developed island and that island will also be the reason that even less donations for islands will be reduced in the coming period.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69766	Dear representative Zdenka Babic-Petricevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69767	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues and Mr. Minister. On March 15, 2000, when the then Minister of Finance, Mr Mato Churchvenac, and his current counterpart, Churchvenac, proposed the 2000 Budget, described him with 10 attributes. Perspective, developed, regionally uniform, erotic, etc., etc. I, as an MP at the time in the opposition, discussed the budget, disagreed on the positions, and I did not paint the voice as we experienced it today in the Croatian Parliament and thus discussed the budget rebalancing proposed by this Government. This is not the HDZ budget, this is the Croatian government budget, ours and yours. However, since such responsibilities towards the budget of the Republic of Croatia from opposition lines are not mine, for some I am not surprised, and for some I am not surprised, so today, I will say a lot of lies, repeat what I did not mean to repeat, but it seems to have to be repeated in the Croatian Assembly. Because it's said, if you don't repeat the truth, it won't become true, and that happens often today. I will repeat the basic reasons for the amendments and addition of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006. Faster growth in economic activity in early 2006 than expected. The proposed rebalance of the state budget plans to reduce the fiscal deficit to 3%, which would have met one criterion for the new 2006 plan already this year. The total budget revenues are €94 billion 895 million. The original plan was 93 billion and 996 million kuna, an increase of 899 million kuna, based on the planned economic growth of 4.4% and nominal growth of 7.9% compared to the previous year, etc., etc. Since on behalf of the government representative, I spoke to the prime minister, on behalf of the Minister of Finance, who are the most responsible for the proposal for the 2006 budget and for the following year. I hope so, if God will, and still. However, I will mention in this Budget Rebalance proposal some items as a representative of the 11th Election Unit that we discussed today on the Committee on Immigration. Items towards Croats outside the country, I especially mention Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, they have remained unchanged, and that is what I am pleased about. They're still enriched. By 2010 this government will be financed by the Croatian University in Mostar with what was at the time of the coalition government we could only dream. I am particularly pleased and particularly pleased with the expenditure of national minorities in European countries. The national minority in Bratislava, i.e. in Slovakia, was financed by the Croatian House with between 150 thousand euros and 200 thousand euros, depending on the completion that will take place by the end of this year. For the Croatian home "Miroslav Krleža" in Peču, 350 thousand euros. However, as I point out to what pleases me, I told Mr. Assistant Minister on the Committee today, and I will now take it out. I am not pleased with the item from the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports from the position "Croatian Supplemental School abroad" which you have reduced by a million and 272 thousand kuna. Given that, as representative of 11 electoral units, I speak from life experience and always order the country of origin, the Croatian country of origin. The Croats outside the country are the wealth of this country. It is not a pathetic emotion, it is a reality, and I always pray for a better organisation of Croatian supplementary education in emigration and among national minorities in European countries. Since the good organisation of Croatian supplementary classes unfortunately depends not only on the will but also on the means. Given the remarks I received recently when I was in Belgium in Luxembourg, I don't know, and this morning I didn't get an answer as to why the funds were reduced by a million kunas, i.e. a million and 272 thousand kunas, if they objected to us when we arrived at the 11th constituency, i.e. European and overseas countries,... There that organization also depends on the means. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the hope that you will justify this reduction to me normally that we will accept this budget, but we will consider in the 2007 Budget that this position at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports will increase not only by one million kuna but also more. When I say this, I certainly speak with a great responsibility, I do not speak for my children, I was lucky and my drawer came back to Croatia with me. I speak for children who are not HDZs or SDPs or IDSs, but Croatian generations who live and are born outside the country that the Croatian state as their mother country affords them the learning of Croatian language. But in addition to this item that I have mentioned and boasted, I am also pleased with these other items that have not been changed. Here today, one of my predecessors spoke about the Zagreb-Split highway and stated that it was a road of coalition authorities. The Zagreb-Split highway is not a road of both these authorities and coalition authorities, the Zagreb-Split highway as well as I remember it already started since 1971, it is a project of the Croatian people. I remember well when our parents were giving a loan they didn't want for that road Zagreb-Split Mr. Mršić I beg you anyway I'm older than you, listen to what I say, so be so good then on the day of Koprivnica invite me to Koprivnica then tell me what you think today. However, the road road was a project of the Croatian people, continued in 1991, under grenades began to penetrate the St. Rok tunnel, and some spoke when the Holy Rock tunnel broke through that tunnel that mushrooms would be planted in that tunnel. Here is today the Holy Rock and one side and the other side is passing, one and the other pipe is passing on to the happiness of the Croatian, the entire Croatian people and the whole country. But the coalition government did not end this road, this road was continued by Sanader's government, this government. I guess that, I'm just like my colleague used to say today... I do not know that this government has continued this road from Pirovac, in front of Pirovac via Dugopolje, Šjeanovac, so I hope that my colleague will have time this summer, although it is nice to take a little walk on his island in Croatia's Zagora so he will see how this road works, continues. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you're also making fun of the bridge project... Peljesac, with a little more national responsibility, would then talk about the project with a great deal of attention, a great responsibility. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One of the predecessors and with great respect, one of the predecessors said that the funds from the area, according to areas of special state interest, all capital projects continue to depend on dynamics and I hope that the colleague will not have the right to say that more than 30% of the funds are being reduced according to areas of particular state interest. Well, here we are today, and St. Vukovar and Vukovar, and the Vukovar hospital is still running. These are the little remarks I've made about this budget rebalance. The truth if we speak further would speak positively and do not need to speak, I am pleased that this government is working with one great responsibility on what it has made in its pre-election promise to start Croatia first for the benefit of all Croatian people and its citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69768	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69769	You say Mrs. Babić Petricevic if the truth is not repeated long enough it cannot become true. That's incorrect. The truth is true, no matter whether it has been repeated and how many times it has been repeated or not repeated at all, it is true if it is true. It's different from Goebbels' syntagma. She says, "If a lie is repeated long enough she gets the strength of truth." Now, if that's what you're thinking, then repetition, the frequent repetition of your panegirist to the government makes sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69770	Dear Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative, Vice President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69771	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Since this is about budget rebalancing, of course I can talk about the budget as a whole, but it can therefore be looked back at several basic items. The first thing that needs to be clearly shown is the fact that unfortunately we all have to be seriously concerned because the real growth rate has practically not yet reached the 2003 growth rate of 5.35, we have for the last year an estimated rate of 4.3%, and of course for the first 6 months we do not have this rate yet but, of 5% or more, and as indicated here in the explanation is the growth rate planned for this year of 4.4%. So, still less than we had the growth rate in 2003. Another thing you'd like to link to that growth rate is at the same time the demand to decrease from 3.3 to 3% of the government deficit. Dear colleagues and colleagues can also be reduced by more percentages than 0.3% if the national gross product increases by one or more percentages of the deficit, and in this segment all the difference between our discussions and the debates that take place within the ruling coalition and the thesis set by the current government. The third thing to read is the fact that the hidden forms of debt of the state or the obligation to pay the state, in fact, has not yet shown in this budget rebalancing, not only from the aspect of the internal debt but especially from the aspect of the hidden debt which primarily refers to the attempt to decentralisation functions of the local and regional self-government and the county, and in such a situation it is quite clear that the debts already started to show from the loss of hospitals, schools, based on the loss of social protection, etc. They simply have to come to the charge of the state because there is no one to pay it to the counties in view of the amount of these debts and given the inability of the small revenues that the county has. And that's what's objective. Of course, there are also subjective reasons in certain counties where due to failures, inadequate records, irregular documentation, unintended use of funds, lack of control, verification of non-intentional use of credit funds, issuing guarantees without cover or conclusion of contracts without consent and assembly and headships, etc., so where there have been whole series of failures but also the consequences of the damage to these units of regional self-government. I purposely speak not of losses but of damages so you have in Požega-Slavon County as an example but not only in this county but in many other counties and in such a situation these losses wanted us or did not have to end up being rescheduled by the state and that is the question whether and if we add them up and expose them then we will see that this deficit is much greater than objectively with it. That is why I think it is far more important to set as the key objectives of budgetary development not only this but also to increase the national gross product, to open new investments, to open opportunities for new jobs, and thus to reduce jobs and of course to a better quality and better increase of revenue on this basis for the budget, and then to reduce as a consequence the deficit itself. Thirdly, the fact is that this year's growth rate of 4.4% is planned and nominal growth says 7.9%. The question is, where's the difference? The difference of 3.5% between real and nominal growth is actually the rate of inflation and we will again have inflation rate several percent higher than we had in 2002 and 2003, respectively. What is particularly interesting is that it is now estimated for last year of 3.3% but it is also interesting that the inflation rate is higher than the average growth of the average salary in the Republic of Croatia. In such a situation, the question arises, in fact, the burden of over-income over the expenditures of the budget on which it falls. So it actually falls on the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, on taxpayers and in such a situation it is quite clear that something else should be done and something else should be seen and through the function of the budget can be done to improve the life of the population, to increase the standard and to do something in such a situation that would benefit everyone. The fourth group of issues I would like to raise and which is also easy to read from all these indicators is that it is very interesting that the industry is still not the one that should grow fastest because actually if it grows then it starts to happen instead of trade and tourism through industrial, through new jobs, new jobs, new products open economic growth and development. This makes it difficult to talk about Croatia's launch. We must speak openly about this issue for a simple reason, because it is a question of the perspective of our generations that come and for all of us. And the fifth question, I don't think this redistribution of extra income on expenditure is good. It should have been done not to reduce the deficit rate, but to discuss the location of funds between existing activities and projects and those projects that should have already been completed and not completed here, and I must first of all say that I also think about those projects that should have included the regional development of the Republic of Croatia in order to achieve equal measure, equal legal development that should increase and equalise the development of the Republic of Croatia. I will remind the illustrations only of the large infrastructure related to the fast road Varazdin-Virovitica-Osjek still in which it was planned to complete the bypass around Virovitica by 2005 and part of the fast road to Podravska Slatina. Not even a bypass has been completed, let alone part of the fast road. And by 2015, the whole road should be finished. Therefore, it is clear that there are projects that should necessarily be asked a question of demands, not to reopen the debate on whether or not we will decide at the government meetings in Koprivnica, for example. The issue was decided by the Croatian Parliament by adopting a strategy for the spatial development of the Republic of Croatia and until it is changed, it should be the government that implements the strategy and not question every time what the Parliament has decided and what the Assembly has said as priorities. And, of course, the last thing that is in all of this is that I have to point out in particular that as a representative from the V-selection unit, I will also support the SDP Club's amendment that goes in this direction to partially resuscitate in one third, providing funds by redistributing the surplus revenue of the budget in this year with the financing and resolution of actually damage in Požega-Slavon County, which is moreover clear that in the second phase, we will also have to do something about resolving other issues and I think there is not only the legal but also the moral obligation of this government to do so since the former mayor publicly stated on Croatian television that everything he did in that county was working in agreement with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, if such an agreement became when the county was in debt, when guarantees were issued without cover and without approval then there should now be an agreement in line with the resolution programme on how to resolve losses and damages in the same county. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69772	Thank you. Replica, a respected representative, Anto Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69773	Dear Mr. President, here is the second time I have to intervene with regard to the lunches that are on my account or to the budget of the Požega-Slavon County and I will not use this institution to correct the incorrect allegations because there is a lot being said here. I will only replicate the logic of whether the distinguished representative Arlovic knows that his party colleague is accusing the former mayor and of the external debt of the Croatian state. It is obviously a new political trick to be used and to deceive the Croatian public, so in the context of it, Mr Arlović said here that the Croatian state is hiding some debt that is not shown or shown here, I don't know what it refers to, but probably alluding to Požeko-Slavon County is covered up in some kind of negligence, unhappiness or something else left by the former mayor of Požeko-Slavon County. I'm using this replica institution to tell him or to tell all of us here Mr. heir my Mr. Ronko collects pears and apples, indeed sums. I am also sorry that he is using you as a parliamentary representative to place his lie with which he wants to point out the logic that the Croatian state will now single out 200 or 300 million kunas to resuscitate Požeko-Slavon County where Mr. Ronko will be the big mayor and for which 200 or 300 million will do certain jobs that he should have done.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69774	The reply to the replica was respected by Vice-President Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69775	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues! I'm less interested in what the former mayor is going to say or what the current mayor is saying. The fact is that, among other things, the State Office for Business Audit has identified a whole series of irregularities such as the records of the obligation to seek, the disorderly documentation, the unintended use of funds of decentralised functions, the lack of control and verification of the dedicated use of credit funds transferred to the County Road Authority, the procedures relating to guarantees issued, the conclusion of a guarantee contract or the provision of claims. The procedures concerning the acquisition of illegal lending, a whole series of irregularities on these issues, have been identified by the State Audit Office for Požega-Slavon County, among other things, and have concluded on this point: "If the availability of funds in the future can result in the inability to meet the public needs of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government. This isn't about finding Ronka and, the new mayor of Požega-Slavon County. It is the finding of a state audit that has identified a number of irregularities, and in this regard not only should we as a Dom require that irregularities and irresponsibility be sanctioned in the business of Požeko-Slavon County but we are looking for and that the county is being rehabilitated so that it can be equal and equal in business with all other counties in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69776	Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69777	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. I gave up the written debate for the simple reason why I would not repeat the debate on positions, divisions and figures, figures showing the government policy of the Republic of Croatia when it comes to fiscal policy or budget in general. My colleagues and colleagues from HDZ are trying to support a picture of Sanader's government on their own, which is one of the most important things I think is this government. Creating a picture of yourself. However, I have read a lot of public opinion research by colleagues and colleagues, and despite these images, all studies show that more than 70% of citizens believe that economic policy and state are generally headed in the wrong direction. It is not my opinion, but it is the opinion of over 70% of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Why is that? In my court, it's because there's a huge gap, a discrepancy between promise and made between speech and reality. If that were the case, here's just one example and one indicator today. Addressing the Croatian public and the Croatian Parliament as a very important element to support the picture of itself, the prime minister said the macroeconomic situation in the Republic of Croatia is stable and that the gross domestic product is growing from a rate I don't even know how much, but for the past 5 months. Is the prime minister, when he is serious about citizens and Parliament, really talking about macroeconomic indicators only to those who support him or at least to the fullest extent of his mandate. At least it shows a trend throughout its term. Of course, it doesn't apply to the prime minister, so he's juggling statistics on only five months this year. And my fellow citizens, that's why you're living better now. And if we were to add that the prime minister boasted that this government policy has started today since 1993 and that it is continuing. Now, you tell me whose back this stability is being built on? Whose back? Croatia has been in Croatia for many years, and for the last three years, the number of unemployed has been going to zigzag, the hour up, the hour down. It depends on what information he wants to show, but citizens know that 300 families or 300 people of younger age are increasingly looking for a job and he can't find it. 300 grand, 300,000 citizens. To that, we can say that this government's macroeconomic policy is stable, stable. We can say it's based on price stability. To what benefit? To what benefit? In favor of those who pitted, they pitted. And it's been going on since 1993. Something changed the government from 2000 to 2003, but it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. It's just not even possible to change that so quickly. When we look at it and interpret either one, second or third budget that this government has prepared, then, of course, only those who have acquired wealth in conversion and privatisation can again be satisfied with the stability of the kuna and other macroeconomic indicators that safeguard it or increase it. And there's still a million, millions of pensioners left to manage to survive from the 1st to the 30th of the month. Whether they're old pensioners to whom he as a government returned what he had, which she had suspended before and the court ordered her or a new one that went even worse even though they worked longer. Although longer contributes to the creation of a pension fund. And worse and worse, they retire. Instead of 43 or 43 and a half, the amount of pensions participating in the average salary decreased by only 3 years to 37% of the average salary. And now we can say once again, macroeconomic stability is fine, the state is going a good way, but you citizens can manage from 1st to 1st with the pension you have. Those who don't work find themselves in the black economy, in the gray economy, in any economy. The government doesn't take care of you. It's like they're not our fellow citizens. It's like we're not elected here. It's like we don't make their bills. What's the mark of this government? Let's face it. You say we make promises. It doesn't even matter if she makes them or doesn't, she doesn't make them come true from the VAT she promised to cut, she even passed the law on her return. It's not coming true. Does he achieve reforms in health care? So my people do not come true. Health care is becoming more and more and more difficult to get to a doctor. We can talk about stability again. Those who are sick must pay for coming to a doctor. Is this solidarity that this state has introduced through the Constitution? He must be participated by a sick man in treatment. Well, that's it. You say stability is satisfactory, and the health minister over the radio warns those who haven't paid 500 days for drug suppliers. He says that on the radio. You haven't paid for 500 days, I'll relieve you. He just didn't say it, and it's good stability again. In whose name is the stability good? Who are we making peace with here? We're doing great, aren't we? What is the further feature of the government? That what he does is wrong, and that he corrects it, and he interprets it as success. Liburnia Riviera hotels. Is that the government's success? Is sending an executive order to TV and withdrawing through public notice again, and that's the minister. Pull the Minister's solution you signed. Is that the credibility of the government? Is the VAT reduction promised by the government's credibility? ... It's not a colleague, it's not a credibility. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Is the transport, is the Sunhani Hvar which says it is privatized, and now gives us guidance as if we are in a political school guidance on how to run a public-private partnership. So we need to get our colleagues and colleagues and the Croatian Government down from principled, theoretically, from the state to the real space of citizens and solve their unemployment problems, poor standards, inability to school, poor, treatment options. That would be some kind of stability. And don't go public and say that the last 5 months of gross domestic product has grown at that rate and that, no matter how divorced it is in the entire term of one government. You could also talk about how whoever leaves the country to the future government. We're not gonna burn, the light's on, so that means the end of the speech. It is normal for every new government not a little but a lot to take care of the country and bring citizens better. But no, we're always talking here we're better than you were before, so you have to be two classes better, because you've inherited the country much better than they inherited in 2000, you've inherited much better. Arranged, paying neatly, international position much better and collecting fiscal incomes much more precisely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69778	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Željko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69779	Thank you, Mr. President. I couldn't help but correct Mr. Lek's incorrect allegations. I quote that Prime Minister Sanader said, "Dear citizens, you're living better now.". That's what we didn't hear in this assembly today. And whether we live better or not, and where the data that speaks about it I will re-apply to the Yearbook of the Croatian Employment Institute in 2005 so I will just read it. I quote about: "The basic parameters that are listed here is the State Statistics Office of the Republic of Croatia." If we don't trust him, then who are we gonna trust? Therefore, I cannot agree with this, the fact that your mouth and your eyes are not being smiled, and because of what has been done and said here today.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69780	Dear Representative Željko Pavlic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69781	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen. I think it's completely pointless for us to make sure here that the budget introduces us to prosperity or on the other hand they have completely black forecasts. You should just get out of the Assembly Hall here on the street and ask the citizens if they live better. If they live better then they're absolutely certain that all the macroeconomic, micro-economic, fiscal and all the other goals that are set and that you claim to be realised make sense. If citizens feel, they have a perception of bad living, then the fact that deficits are 2, 3, 5, 7 or 9 doesn't matter to them. They don't care what the budget deficit is, they care what they can buy for their salary, what they can buy for their pension, how the public sector, so the budget of the municipality, cities, counties, state, Institute of Health, Pension Insurance, hospitals, schools operate. How many needs they and their children meet and what quality. And then it's here to outwit us whether the deficit is 3% or 3.3 is 2.8 or 4.3 and how we're going to write down our commitments in 2006, 2005 or 2007. But, by the way, while we are talking about the deficit, it should be said that the vast majority of countries that are members of the European Union do not meet the criteria of the European Monetary Union. Here's a final example of you have Germany that went far beyond these criteria and therefore it currently has a deficit greater than the Republic of Croatia or you have a situation that most of the countries that entered the European Union last year have, have had a deficit that does not satisfy the European monetary union. Because entering the European Union does not also enter the European Monetary Union, but it only seems later. And you have the case of Sweden which twice had a referendum and twice the citizens of Sweden said no, we want to be in the European Union, but we don't want to be in the European Monetary Union, so we don't care about the criteria of Luxembourg, we don't care about any other criteria, we want to have our own coin, we want to have our deficit, because we want to base ourselves on what we trust the government and Parliament realizes and achieves the objectives. But let's not talk about the deficit right now, because I have to say that most of the people I'm talking to don't care about the deficit at all. I was encouraged by Mrs Babić Petricevic to discuss concrete items. And I really wanted to talk here right now about building a university in Mostar. But those items aren't in the budget. You're gone, so please, those items aren't in the budget. I don't know how someone could have signed 250 million kunas of contracts or agreements without having it in the budget. We don't even have that in next year's budget projections. Is that the transparency of the budget? Is it the transparency of the budget that the prime minister and minister take pictures and say we will build a university here in the next three years and invest 250 million kuna in this, without it being in the budget. I'm sorry, we didn't even get a report here in the House that it was going to be built, nor did anyone announce that in the future we would build it or maybe it's a deficit or maybe it isn't, or maybe it's going to be built extra budgetally. The question is, be careful and let's finally talk about those items. But what I've seen, it's that for the University of Pula that we're establishing, it's secured a million kunas. What will the University of Pula be able to do by the end of this year with a million kuna? It's a new item. But I also saw that, for example, the scholarships of regular students for scientific training are reduced, the scholarships of graduates are reduced, the application of information technology, technological and research activities, the national information structure, etc. are reduced. etc. So what's supposed to create a new value in the future, raise the GDP to the desired 5, 6, 7, we're reducing here. On the other hand, the MPs here are boasting that we're going to do something about this case in Mostar that nobody knows about. Because so long as it's not in some budget document, I'm sorry, it's just one promise that's what they'd tell me, the willow was playing. It's only when the government puts it into the budget and the budget projections that we'll be able to say that it really is. I am sorry, for example, that some amendments to the budget have been rejected, because we now see in this budget rebalancing that they should have been accepted. If you looked at my amendment for decentralised funds then you'd see that there was a reason to accept it. Because when we adopted the budget then there was a plan for 2005 billion and 100 million kunas, I asked them to increase, the plan was a billion 180, I asked it to increase to a billion 240. The minister assured me there would be a lot of billions of 180. It is now proposed that since implementation was a billion 390 budget, it is now proposed to increase this to a billion 240. Therefore, there may sometimes be a need to adopt an opposition amendment, because if we read it, it would really be anyone who has adopted the amendment to the budget that I have proposed. Unfortunately, that's not what you wanted back then. Now I'm going to make an amendment to this budget rebalance, because if last year it took a billion 390 for decentralised functions then there can't be enough billions of 240 this year. It'll probably take a billion, 300, or a billion, 400 or even a billion and a half. So we're going to face the budget rebalance here one more time, so I'm wondering how the government is going to react this time to the amendment that I'm going to submit. I'm saddened that some items in the Ministry of Economy have been removed. For example, the item of co-financing of municipal infrastructure in entrepreneurship zones is completely deleted. She wasn't much, but she existed. We to this day are realized with zero kunas or with a zero index and are now completely abolished. Some other items in that programme are also missing from the promotion of entrepreneurship or subsidisation or, unfortunately, the vast majority of these items have been achieved with a minimum of percentages, so the question arises when the rest will be achieved and the question arises when the Ministry of Labour will call all tenders so that those to whom they are intended can report and prepare the documentation, pass the evaluation in the Ministry of Labour and Economy and obtain those funds. And finally, let me just say about the employment-enhancing measure. They are significantly reduced and thus reduced will not be used. It will not be used because the criteria for their use are such that it is simply impossible to use them in that amount because they are created, first very narrowed groups that can get incentives, the second narrowed down number of legal persons who can get incentives and third parties can only get incentives compared to what they paid in the last year and in a certain percentage, which means that you have to have a company with 10 employees in order to get a subsidy for example for one trainee. So these measures have been promoted, they should have had a very big impact, however, and it has funds in the budget. What will be the problem in the end that these funds will not be used because it is impossible to use them. Indeed, measures are so well-conceived that it is impossible to use them. And ultimately, that programme was adopted by the government only sometime at the 4th month. The employment office started implementing it in the fifth month. They're just now some of these measures are becoming active, but they're simply inconclusive, they're simply inconclusive. And let me get this straight. We also see here again disproportionateness in donations, i.e. regional development subsidies. Because some counties have again received an increase in these funds from the Regional Development Fund, some have remained the same, and some have even reduced what they were expected to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69782	Replica, honourable representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69783	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Mršić, United States of America, Russia, Great Britain, Japan, the Netherlands and many others, Japan and many other countries are investing in Bosnia and Herzegovina because it is their interest because Bosnia and Herzegovina is their interest. Croatia is in a position where Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia invests in Bosnia and Herzegovina among other things because it is of interest to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Among other things, it is both Croatian and moral and constitutional and psychological towards Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but I repeat the economic interest. Take a look at the relations of just one item when it comes to import-exports towards Bosnia and Herzegovina as Croatia stands there. When it comes to bridge university, you see the Bridge University is the only university in Croatian with 10,000 students. With 10,000 students of which 10 per cent even students from Croatia. For example, in a medical study you have 10 percent, every year 10% of students from Croatia. The International University Quality Assessment Agency rated the highest quality university in Bosnia and Herzegovina with the university's lack of sources of funding for those who have others. Croatia has estimated that it is worth investing in this university. In what way? Why didn't you find those items in the budget? In a way that the Bridge University takes the money, takes the credit, and Croatia, that is, the Ministry of Science will participate and assist among other things the return of the store. And now just don't tell me how you don't know that model, and by the way, it's about priority national interest. If that's not how you judge him, that's your problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69784	Replicate response, respected representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69785	I'm sorry you didn't understand what I was saying. I did not even dispute the need to help Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, educational institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In fact, it would be good if we had a Croatian-language university in Sarajevo as well. I was just asking where it says it? The Japanese government certainly did not invest any yen in Bosnia and Herzegovina that Japanese parliament deputies could not see. ... I kept my mouth shut while you were talking, didn't I? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yeah? So, I don't dispute that. In fact, not only in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Maybe you should think about New Sad, Vojvodina. Why don't you have it there? But we as advocates should know that, we should be able to read it out of the budget. That's what this is about. Helping Croats outside Croatia is small, insufficient, but should be read. It was just a question. I have asked the question who can sign the contract, the 250 million kuna agreement, and that Parliament knows nothing about it. Maybe we should sign more. I don't know, I don't even know why 250 was signed, we didn't get that paper. Maybe we should sign more. Perhaps there should be some other universities outside of Croatia. We may need to support stronger lecturers at some other universities, but we need to know about it and we need to have it in the budget. It's not in the budget. You have a budget of 12 and a half million was planned to assist science and education in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that item has been reduced by 2 million, without reason. And the question is, why is that item from 12 reduced to 10?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69786	Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69787	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, this is just tragic to argue like this. It has the possibility to create commitments and give consent to the resolution ministries to create commitments in future periods. So the bridge university has taken up credit, the Croatian government has committed to help repay the loan. The first credit war comes at a charge, if I'm not mistaken, only at the end of 2008 or early 2009. And this is true in all the documents made by the Ministry of Science, directed towards the Croatian government, and then I don't know how in the 2006 budget there can be such an item. But when such a noble action serves the survival of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina is interpreted in this way, it is a tragedy for all of us who are in politics. Because these aren't the things to be politicized. This is something for both the Croatian people and the Croatian state. However, each one has the right to think in his own way. You can't say that if it's said that the Bridge University took over the loan, then you can't say that it's supposed to be in the Budget this year when the loan hasn't even started to come true. There is no obligation to restore war or anything else. But that sounds very attractive to the public, for the media, the government hasn't shown anything. But in the extreme context of showing that this 3.0 deficit is false. Also, the best way to politicalally agree on things that have nothing to do with the Law is to talk about Požega County. So will we, as the people this people chose to apply the law, follow the law or invent some things. The State Audit Office is responsible for something and the State Office has been established to control consumption, both the state budget and the budget of local self-government units. As well as the resources of other users using the budget of local self-government units. We don't even get the State Audit results. The second thing, when we talk about certain obligations, let's see who gave the guarantee license of 24 million in 2002? Who granted a loan permit of 13 million to Požega County in 2003? Then Eve Sanader and his government were gone. Or if we were to go by the damage, which would have been if we had said, is there a 114 million of any controversial and unpaid claims in the Požega County. So what if someone were saying that someone was responsible from former or former governments for 24 billion outstanding claims. Well, it never occurred to me that this was the responsibility of a colleague of the Church or a colleague of Linic, who proposed that the Law on Achievements of Unpaid Claims. So people tried to charge the same as we're trying to charge something today. But you can't say it's a shame someone didn't charge for something. Or let's get out of all units of local self-government some kind of unpaid claim. But when we want to politicize the legal concepts, we come in this way. However, I repeat, no matter what anyone thinks or how anyone thinks constitutional obligation is to care about Croats in the BIH. Who thinks it should be different to propose constitutional change, and my colleague Mršić, I don't think it was correct, first of all, for professors and students of Bridge University.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69788	Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69789	Well, I'll repeat that I don't argue at all that you need to invest. I think it may be necessary to invest 500 million or a billion in a bridge university, but I'm correcting your incorrect assumption that you didn't have anywhere to show it. No executive body has the right to create current or future obligations...... Please, current or future commitments outside the budget and budget projections. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] If we're going to sign the Budget Law because it turns out that you, Minister, together with the Prime Minister, can sign 100 billion kuna letters of intent, credit obligations and not inform anyone about it. Therefore, there is a budget, budget projections. How could you take the obligation of the Republic of Croatia for a future period without informing or not writing in the budget and do not speak here about it as a policy, if someone says that the obligations of the Republic of Croatia must be recorded in the budget. I am for this and I repeat and think that there is too little help for Croats outside Croatia, but Croats outside Croatia do not live in Bosnia and Herzegovina as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69790	Dear Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go. Peace. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69791	Having listened to our Prime Minister this morning, I must say that I was happy with the same fact, that in the first 3 months we have an economic growth of 6% and I believe that this is something that each of us can be glad for, but that is an element that we can criticise the Croatian government in the past two years because I was a prime minister who was delighted with that fact. I ask the question why haven't we done more to make that growth in 2004, 2005? At the same time, our prime minister was pleased with 3 and a half and 4.3. Could he be bigger? My opinion is yes, my answer is yes. Only the debate would be to prove that in 2004, it could have been bigger. Another fact the Prime Minister said. He tried to say we made the same material goods, even greater material goods than in previous years with a smaller deficit that tries to say too much state investment, too many investments that have an impact on the deficit and I agree that the battle of the Government for a smaller deficit to simply have a better credit rating is a commendable move by the Croatian government, but you will also allow Croatia's investments in the oil economy, investments in HEP, investments in Croatian railways, investments in telecommunications are investments that have no impact on the deficit of the Republic of Croatia, have no influence. So all this stuff that happened today could have remained unchanged, but it's safe with investment in state-owned enterprises, I'm talking about state-owned because the government is still a majority owner we could have had 1.1 and a half, and maybe even 2% higher gross annual income growth. We could have had at least one and a half percent. So we could maintain a level of 5.5 and a half and even 6% in 2004 and 2005 and the answer that was so economic growth would cover health problems would probably give us a chance to talk about retirement and this terrible pension drop. So listen 1% is 2 billion, and we played 10 plus 10 plus 10 or a couple hundred million kuna last year and this year we have problems again and we are talking about a billion kuna and how to find a solution to health reform so-called. with a package. So it's just a battle for development, and is that true? Well, it is. In 2004, a gasification project for Croatia could have been completed, it could have been 2004. Why not? The problem of management, we didn't know how to manage management, it's a problem where simply people weren't interested. We started a gasification project thanks to the ultimatum that Europe received from either Russia or Ukraine. Only then did we become aware that we too could run out of energy. Shall we talk about the INA? Two refineries, Rijeka was to be completely restored this year, Europe's most modern, mammalial half next year. Signed documents with a Hungarian partner, plans adopted, all I'd say projects completed, but we didn't want to, a billion dollars is an investment in INA, even the INA owed $400 million and didn't take advantage of the loan. He's paying intercal interest, but we didn't invest. Do we still know it's July 5th? Rijeka refinery has been closed since April of the month, not working, the heart of the tourist season, importing derivatives, not working. Why isn't it working? Who knows how to explain that? Collecting... derivatives rather than oil, but it doesn't work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We were unable to determine and prepare the repairs properly, but there is no responsibility for the management or supervisory board or anyone, and that is not the problem with the deficit of the Croatian budget, no! But the problem of the current account deficit of paying the Republic of Croatia to abroad is a record, it passed 6% of gross national income, it passed. Does that fact concern us? That's what can significantly destabilise our macroeconomic data, the biggest deficit, and why? So look who makes the structure of that deficit, what are we going to see? Energies. We import gas, we can't think about using our own, we import derivatives, we don't think about importing oil and then we offer the European market derivatives. No, it's all a fact, it's all clear data. We simply did not fight the battle for the Croatian companies to make investments, invest, the battle for the energy security of the Republic of Croatia. HEP, it's talking, it's going into new blocks, but it's not going to a new power plant, it's not going to the hydro, it's not going to the thermo. Yeah, we're worried because the Slovenians are gonna start building, but do we hear announcements from our HEP? No, I don't. Do we have these projects? No, I don't. And why don't we? How much does a gas thermal power plant cost? These are about facts that indicate that the necessary level of state investment, and the state because energy is at stake, the security of all of us, the entire Croatian economy if we have our own sources of energy, and we could have it, we didn't have it. We talked about the railroad too often here. Two and a half years didn't invest in the railroad, it didn't. In fact, we were defending an administration that didn't know what a railway business was, we were defending it, we were defending it to the blood. Yes, my colleague will try to talk about... technicals. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Just fool yourself and the Croatian public. You know, just try to find an excuse because there's no investment in essential infrastructures. The Croatian railway at the port has an increase in freight, the railway cannot carry it out, we cannot increase transit traffic. There isn't. The new administration has only now turned to development opportunities and there is no space, no support. The railroad must be in debt, that's not a deficit, that's what Minister Schuker says. Let the sources invest in both passenger and freight and infrastructure. And why isn't it there? We are struggling with the structure of the railway because workers have become aware that heavy freight will deal with competition when it is divided. Shall we talk about telecommunications? We've spent dividends, there's no investment in new technologies, I'd say market for many strong small companies dealing with telecommunications. Therefore, there is the question why the Croatian government, why its members sitting on supervisory boards did not realize that they could create 1.5% of GDP, increase without having any impact on the deficit of the state budget because they are not investments recorded in the deficit. Each of them has its own income and does not depend on state tax revenues. And there's the answer. We haven't made enough effort. Well, then we don't have to be surprised that we don't have the results of reducing the unemployed and half of us have to worry that there's no salary growth and we have a rapid pension drop, because simply in the last two years that we've achieved three billion in the budget more based on the growth of the gross social product believe we could already be able to solve a good part of the problem. And I am sure that the number of unemployed would be far below 300 thousand, and I am sure that then Croatian entrepreneurs in that investment cycle in Croatia where a few billion euros would spin per year find their market, find their own interest to invest even more themselves in their development and I would say my construction. There is a failure of the Croatian government and there is what they have become aware of. That's why the 6% rate of economic growth in the first quarter is still... That we haven't cared about that for the last two years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69792	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69793	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague, Linic, I don't know for some time, who wrongly states that the government is responsible for not starting a refinery remounting, and I don't know which time he just sold the right to the MOL to decide on the start of the refinery refurbishment. And quote my colleague Linic, and that's the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69794	Dear Representative Zdenko Antesic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69795	Thank you. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues! Well, here I am also looking forward to and looking forward to quite certainly basic macroeconomic indicators, but what worries me is that I don't feel much more significant progress in part of that standard of living, in part of people who live and in person, so if you want to go to Istria and I stress that in Slavonia and Baranja. We don't feel any improvement in the east of Croatia, we don't feel that unemployment is shrinking, we don't feel that new jobs are opening, we don't feel that the economy is in motion. However, all the opposite or wanting to be objective at the same level as it was a few years ago. There is no irrigation project announced in Slavonia and Baranja three years ago. We don't see any significant progress in gasification. We heard about the promise, here I was reminded earlier by a colleague of the construction of a thermal power plant or a thermal power plant, and it was planned somewhere further but certainly not in the short term, and even more regrettable in the long term HEP did not plan it in the area of the far east of Croatia in Slavonia and Baranja. Status in agriculture. Well, enough tells the data and we had this debate a month ago here in the Croatian Assembly about the minimality of the surface. We have unfortunately had the opportunity to hear that the area of Osijek-Baranja County, the area of Vukovar-Srijem County and the city of Osijek if you want to continue demining at this pace of 50 years will need agricultural areas and forests to demining, without talking about the incentive system and about the satisfaction or dissatisfaction of peasants with the way the incentive system is realized. Gross social product in Slavonia and Baranja, which is why it is in the east of Croatia because I come from the east of Croatia and there must be such landscapes besides Slavonia and Baranja. Why the gross social product must be three, three and a half times smaller than in other parts of Croatia. Is that the even development we've been hearing so much about? Is this a picture of Croatia where Croatia is not strong, I repeat how strong Zagreb is but how strong the border areas are. Are border areas strong with three times less gross social product than other parts of Croatia? Thank God they have them. And yes, I'm looking forward to it, but I'm sad we don't have in Slavonia and Baranja, which the character doesn't have, which are huge, huge differences. You know that Osijek-Baranja County and Mr Schuker certainly knows the fiscal capacity of Osijek-Baranja County that is weak. We expected at least in the rebalancing of the budget to keep this in mind, the position of Slavonia and Baranja. However, how to interpret such a reduction in funding in the item of the Regional Development Fund. Mr. Minister, 30% is smaller than originally planned. For what reason, has Slavonia and Baranja or Osijek-Baranja County progressed in these six months? Or maybe these are some subjective reasons why the Regional Development Fund instead of 4 and a half million as originally planned has now fallen to 2 million and 800 and 2 million and 900, respectively. I'm talking about Osijek-Baranja, no, we're talking about a 30% reduction in Osijek, Mr. Minister. There may be estimates that Slavonia and Baranja are booming, and I assure you that they are not. That the situation in Slavonia and Baranja has not changed. In Osijek-Baranja County. By the way, when we talk about the Regional Development Fund, it is then the biggest, biggest reduction compared to the 2006 budget plan that we adopted in December compared to all other counties. What kind of indicators were handled when you did this? Railway-road crossings and corridor 5C. So it should not be explained how important he is to the east of Croatia, significant. When in the last year and especially six months ago, we spoke to the Croatian Railways administration and also to the ministries responsible for transport, when we pointed out the need to do much because this 5C corridor is a living house of the north and south, but that some understanding must be made of the position of both the city of Osijek and Osijek-Baranja County, that it is not acceptable for the 5C corridor carrying heavy but dangerous burdens to pass through the city of Osijek itself. That corridor 5C rail, I'm talking about cutting the city of Osijek at the centre of three places and there's no hearing of deniveling the railroad. However, the competent ministry considers that the budget item should be reduced precisely for railway and road crossings and modernisation and the construction of corridor 5C. So from 320 million to 270 million. Fifty million. Well, at least we got one deniveled road crossing in a short term. When I say short term, then I mean four or five years. And you know what the answer was? First to three, first we get in 2016. Is that acceptable? It was also an air strategy, air traffic. In that strategy, or rather, the draft air transport strategy on Osijek airport is not spoken. So many times we've been to the D.O.D., pointing to this problem, asking for at least a minimum of subsidies, understanding from a national company. We didn't find him. What about the big market? There are no more items for grants and subsidies for the wholesaler. For the "indulgence" of the freezer as well. Osijek-Baranja County, or the town of Osijek, has no "inlet" cooler. At the center of the environment where people deal with agricultural production. Stock market. Three years ago, we passed a law on trade in which it is clear in the specifics of the articles is clearly stated that the competent ministry will pass a law on the warehouse. Or regulate the stock exchange. Well, to this day, we don't have that. We find ourselves down there as we know and can. Health care, there's been a speech here about how many items have been increased in various hospitals. However, in the clinical hospital Osijek, the item decreases. I don't know why, but it's certainly not the first time, and to be specific, it's from 15 to 12 million. I don't know what time the education minister in charge stressed the need for one-way school education. As a priority, he listed the city of Osijek and promised 15 million in the programme. To this day, we haven't seen a hundred thousand of those 15 million. And for a long time I could point out what is happening at the local level in eastern Croatia in Slavonia and Baranja. I have submitted amendments and I want to believe that at least part of those amendments will be adopted. That I'm going to be able to argue in this high house. And then my joy will be completely not only because of macroeconomic indicators but also because of the attempt of a balanced and balanced development of the whole of Croatia and not just some of its parts.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69796	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations were respected by Vice-President Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69797	I'm really glad you're happy to have good macroeconomic indicators, too. When you mentioned that people in person don't feel better living, I have to deny you with a few data. That the gross social product in Lika-Senj County has gone up for about 300% in the last three years. That the number of small and medium-sized enterprises in the last two and a half years has gone up 250% and that is very important in 2003, only 30% had a positive result. Today, over 80% of them... small and medium-sized entrepreneurs have a positive business. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That unemployment has been the lowest in the last 10 years. And what especially delights is the growing number of people staying and some are returning to Lika-Senj County. For the past two and a half, three years we have received Nikola Tesla, the National Institute for Violation and Exteriors, or the headquarters of the public companies outposts that have been moved over the past 4 years have been returned with headquarters in Ličko-Senj County. These are just some data that say that indeed in Lika-Senj County live better. And that people can feel it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69798	Second correction by the respected representative, Anto Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69799	Your Honor, Mr. President, the esteemed representative has, in several incorrect allegations, provided information that does not stand. I'll only make one correction and it's about irrigation or a national irrigation program. In the rebalancing budget at K-2011 position you can see that the plan was in 2006 16 million kuna, that the increase is 23 million kuna and that it will actually be rebalanced in this year 39 million kuna or increase by 244% compared to planned. And if I don't just talk about numbers, here's what I'm going to do with the example of my county means in the government's proposal, that is, in the Croatian Waters proposal. The accumulation of Longja, the accumulation of Vrbov are in the same part of Slavonia, I think it can really be corrected by this incorrect quote of colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69800	Replica, a respected representative of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69801	Well, my colleague Šišljagic, I can't be surprised by your words if that's exactly what you're saying. I remember when you and your colleague, Glavas, and some of them went to Prime Minister Sanader's house and went back with millions and billions of dollars. I remember a colleague named Djapic who went to Prime Minister Sanader's last budget and came back with a billion and a half. It caused envy, jealousy with the people of Koprivnica because they said look what Djapic can do. And now I'm surprised none of those billions and a half came along, except for something to spray mosquitoes. Is it really possible that this year alone in Osijek there will be sprayed mosquitoes or the government to make their promises of a billion-and-a-half investment in Osijek and Slavonia? I really can't believe someone could get a billion-and-a-half promise, and now they're satisfied with a few bigger mosquito sprays.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69802	Replica, respected representative Vladimir Šišljagic, responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69803	Thank you very much. Well, here's a fellow representative, I don't really know where you saw full pockets. However, of course, like all those who represent among other things the interests of Croatia as a whole, as well as the interests of those who chose them here in the Croatian Parliament, so of course we did, and you mentioned a colleague of Glavas, Djapic and I were represented between them and the interests of Slavonia and Baranja, i.e. in particular the Osijek-Baranja County. Of course I have to admit that we've been counting on objective indicators and on the understanding of those people who can decide. And that's why you might be seeing that number a billion and a half. But I hope that this too will be an opportunity in the amendments, and by the end of the year we have thank God a little less than months, but that the current government and ministers will show themselves in the part in which they support even development, and certainly that if they support the even development of Croatia then they must bear in mind the fact that they must invest significantly more in Slavonia and Baranja than the proposal for a rebalancing of this state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69804	Dear representative Ljubica Lalić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69805	Well, colleague Šišljagic, you have confirmed exactly what I said in my debate, which is that we in Slavonia do not feel the benefits of these macroeconomic indicators. And that's right. Now the question is, how come we don't feel so great results and so great indicators? Well, my colleague Šišljagic, because we have been forgotten. Take the budget and you'll find the full answer. When we settle for crumbs from a rich table and those crumbs aren't realized. So here, for example, strengthening the capacity in agriculture and the food industry to realize 0 percent, increasing 0 percent. Well, of course we don't need the food industry because we don't encourage primary agricultural production, so that makes sense. Well, it's easier to import food from abroad, and I don't know where it's from, but to hire Slavon. Our wealth is a tree, a Slavonic oak. Encourageing the wood industry is 19% realization, increasing nothing. So if we don't know, and this government can't take advantage of what God has given us, or it won't, then we can't feel the benefits of economic indicators. Well, most of Slavonia is an area of special state concern. And now watch your hypocrisy. The position of the social, socio-economic recovery of the area of special state care. A realisation of 2.43%. And planned for the miserable 50 million kuna. My dear colleague Šišljagić is actually telling us everything and from this budget we can only confirm what you and I both have concluded that Slavonac will benefit from macroeconomic indicators with such a government will never feel.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69806	Replica response, respected representative Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69807	Thank you very much. So, personally, and I believe so do my colleagues that we share an opinion with or those with me, so we're not looking for crumbs. We're not looking for crumbs. We seek and demand repeat reason, reasonable investment. We are looking not only for Slavonia and Baranja, but we are looking for hearing and that we need to change the tax system so that the tax system as it is now clearly leads to an unfair position of a particular region in the Republic of Croatia. But is it reasonable, is it reasonable to let corridor 5C cut three places across the seat of the City of Osijek while investing in the Pelješka Bridge 200, 300 million. Is that rational? Stopping traffic in 4th city by size in Croatia? Is it rational for entrepreneurial zones that, by the way, the City of Osijek doesn't have a single one? Open up the Ministry of Economy. That in the competent ministry for months, the state, or the people representing at this point, the executive authority, is willing to give up a piece of the country for the economic zone? We're not looking for much. We're not just looking for Slavonia and Baranja. We're looking again for hearing for even development. In the only parts of the Republic of Croatia, there cannot be four times the gross national income of other parts. Keep this independent of which the government is acting in power in the Republic of Croatia during a four-year period. But every government must therefore be in the interest of making sure that the population in Vukovar, as in Dubrovnik, is equal to the standard of living in all parts of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69808	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69809	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. As our media declared this power to self-proclaimed Croatian drivers and their coalition subcontractors who here are resisting today by presenting this budget rebalancing as a new joyous news, almost as the new Gospel. The sad and sad wonders that this joy has not taken over us and all the public. And you see only a few days ago in the Croatian Parliament, speaking of the Croatian National Bank, the governor of the CNB warned about the foreign borrowing of banks that continued, which continued to grow with 14.9% despite the fact that the Croatian National Bank sought to de-simulate such trends by increasing its border reserves. The banks thus owed 7.7, 6.7 billion euros net and the share of the debt in the gross social product doubled from 15% to 31%. The trend of growth, the trend of growth, is recorded by an external debt currently of around 17 billion euros, and its share in the gross social product has increased from 62% to 85% of gross social product. And the amount of interest paid on external debt has again reached the level of possible growth of the gross social product, which could mean a significant reduction in the financial potential of the state and this is already a dependence on foreign sources of financing. As an indirect consequence of foreign debt growth, of course, the obvious danger of constant pressure on the exchange rate, on inflation growth, interest rates, and especially on debt service costs, which is naturally reflected negatively on the balance of payments. Although inflation is as much under control as possible, it is still growing. We're witnessing a crawling inflation. It rose from 1.7% in 2003 to 3.6% in 2005 and in the first five months of this year to 4%. The biggest monetary problem in which you have put Croatia is its total debt, which has increased by just over two years from 19 to 27 billion euros. It is particularly devastating that in the next 2007 it can be expected to equalise the cost of interest with the amount of debt and gross social product and of course the question is how long Croatia can endure it. Perhaps the Croatian government can, but as long as the Croatian state can endure it. The Croatian state is not just an anthem, a coat of arms or a flag. Croatia's state as well as any country is important to it, economic independence and its strength are important to it. However, instead of presenting Croatia as an important European entity, you always turn Croatia into someone's client. You're still today, Mr. Minister, you said this morning, capital is ruthless. That's right. But capital is not some extraterrestrial force or any elemental disaster, capital is held by people. And you see what the state can do. It is therefore not some kind of disaster that has hit us from this multinational capitalist oligarchy that finds its fertile soil most often in politically corrupt countries. Now how brave countries can defend themselves from that. That's funny to you!? That's funny to you, Mr. Minister! But which you and this government have created, rather than through certain laws, and not just you, but through certain laws, it is quite evident, that the state's right to control its own country's economic powers is denied. In this way, the public sector is collapsing, it is evident through all the laws that have come especially and hastened lately. It is something that is particularly dangerous for Croatia. So to conclude, it's only because of this, that your confidence is without any cover. Prime Minister Sanader was surprised by himself, so he says I was personally surprised by this kind of growth and growth rate. However, the rate of growth itself is not something to praise at all, especially not some self - appreciation, especially when we see what is actually the structure of growth. We can see that there's the least of it. That's what everyone agreed on. So the share of production is mostly services, but even more profits from banks, HT, Ine and other monopoly companies. You say everything is so beautiful and wonderful. And here's the good news, we can be some kind of bad opposition and look for something to say that maybe objectively doesn't have to stand, some of our impressions. But here I will tell you what the report published in the global year of competitiveness for 2006, which I already pointed out once, which was published by the International Institute for Management Development of Lozana, which was first competing, i.e. the subject of observation and Croatia. Of 61 countries, Croatia is in 59 places, please. 61 observed country, Croatia in 59 places. And not to mention some charlatans who measure the country's success by some perception because you objected to that when there was a speech on which we are in the perception of corruption, and the latest news that Serbia passed us three days ago, that's about corruption. Therefore, this global year of competitiveness analyses and ranks countries based on 312 criteria and these 312 criteria are set in four factors of competitiveness according to economic results, government efficiency, business sector efficiency and infrastructure. In infrastructure, we are the best, but thanks to the most infrastructure investments of the previous government, but let's let even now who touched it more. You see, by the efficiency of the government and the efficiency of the business sector, we are the last. It saves us from the last place, and that's the only infrastructure and investment that's been made in the infrastructure for the last few years. This is therefore Croatia's position on the list of competitiveness of 61 countries, and you are happy. And in two-and-a-half years of mandate with this budget rebalancing that you are telling the new Gospel, almost as true, and that's how I'm going to fortify you, maybe you all in HDZ don't know that one of the top state officials is speaking from the church, from the altar, no one has said that yet, so here I am warning of the spread and of such a new Gospel as some kind of new faith, which is very dangerous, at least for Croatia as a Catholic country. So, what happened? There was a big gap between the rich and the poor and in this gap between the rich and the poor, solidarity was being crushed, the unity that Croatia needs in this time of approaching the European Union, and that we are not talking about justice. The whole series of laws that are proposed are unfair, they are unfair to the citizens, but they favor this huge capital from which Minister Schuker raised his hands because there is nothing he can do about it. He doesn't, he says, mercy. But in that sense, the government shouldn't have mercy either. And mine, as I have already pointed out, the levers that are available to every country and thus use, and there you will always have supporters in us. With your happiness and joy, the government has indeed lost all contact with reality. You see, and when we face arguments, then you insult, or label the opposition, or in any case, you find the least of the excuses. Well, the government isn't looking for excuses. It's looking for solutions. That is why your citizens chose you, however, the fact is that from Bible times to today there are periods of birth and infertile periods. It's obvious how close it is to the election that this government is running out of biological clocks, and it's little to believe that it can produce what's useful. Besides, this power needs to be replaced.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69810	... Yeah. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Correction of an incorrect allegation, a respected representative of the Shima Rifle.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69811	Well, unfortunately, the famous financial expert has provided so much data that it's impossible to correct. I'll just try one. On the honesty of Catholic faith, fertility and infertility we will later, and on the shifts and the red revolution a little later. First, the issue of fundamental, the issue of inflation. Data, National Bank bulletin, June, 2006. Now read again, that's what I was told last year, one of my colleagues. I say listen, so give me the information, but we don't accept them. Just for... Because time is too short. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The first 4 months of 2006 in the world market marked strong growth, I apologize, skipped. During the first 4 months of this year, basic inflation has steadily decreased. Total reduction, etc., with 3%... December 2000 to 2.3% in 2006 [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The influence that affected it and the rest. It is amazing that the official documents issued by the official institution, the independent monetary authority do not want to be used as arguments, but prepare the data that someone is probably trying to frame you, and then by threatening you here, you can assure the Parliament. Don't do this because you're giving out incorrect information.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69812	Second correction, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69813	Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague who incorrectly says that the government has lost touch with reality. My colleague, you have lost touch with the reality that in the 21st century you're trying to, as you say, sell the working class to Marks and Engels as a new package of SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69814	Final review, Finance Minister Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69815	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, after another heated debate, how usually that happens when it comes to the budget. But what perhaps concerns man the most is that we, for some reason of political need, have become undertrusted in the institutions that we have established ourselves. And even the data made by the State Statistics Office, the Croatian National Bank is not correct because they confirm certain good indicators. And even a good budget charge is not the result of some work, the formation of the Treasury is not good because the Treasury is not worth anything. And while hundreds of millions were lying around in accounts, and the state had to borrow then it was good. What I'm allowed to do is not allowed to you, you'll see it later when we talk about the State Budget Act. And normally, the debate is like this, and it comes to bile and polemic tones. But I must say on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, macroeconomic indicators are good. The economic movements are good. God forbid this tourist season should be fruitful for us too, and then at the end of the year when we're making a budget for 2207... Okay. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I repeat, it is not good for the indicators that the Croatian National Bank and the State Statistics Institute to interpret them in their own way. Especially with foreign surveyors. Then we'll always be in 59th and 60th because if we say ourselves that the growth of 6% of the first 3 months is nothing, and at the same time when we like it, we're saying that economic growth is 6% of what we want to do. And now if you take back 3, 4 years of debate of all the leaders, all the political parties, then you'll see not that 6 but 5% was the magic figure everyone's talking about. And now we do, so why didn't you do it in four years of power? But, well, we're not going to talk about it, I'm not going to pollute anymore. So 6% was growth, economic growth was 3%. No, we don't have any pleasure here. So I think it should be a pleasure for all of us and hope that the tourist season, because don't think that the football championship didn't leave a mark on economic growth in the Republic of Croatia at 6 months. Let's not fool ourselves, dear gentlemen. We're a very vulnerable economy and you'll see what he did to us in the 4th month just one day more than he did last year. It just shows how very few things can affect economic growth. And after last year's extremely bad quarter this year, we continue to have a positive trend from last year, we have an economic growth of 6%. Today, however, it wants to be baffled. I must say, ladies and gentlemen of the SDP, I haven't heard a single nearly this bad grade from anyone I've talked to in the last 4.5 months about Croatia. Of the people who, we can't say who graduated from the strongest economic universities in the world, let's just say they're the lamest, that they don't know anything. I repeat, credit for the Rijeka bypass is the best confirmation that the financial world treats Croatia. That shows you best. Croatia has been treated there as all the countries of the European Union and no one gives their money for the bad. If it were the way you talk to me, I'd never get a loan like that, but what I can do for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69816	I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69817	Mr. President, I suggest that, since there is quite an amendment in order to harmonize time, or rationalise time to vote on amendments by raising hands, and later on about the law, of course...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69818	Thank you. So we'll vote manually on the amendments. Let's go, Mr. Minister. Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. Here you go. Amendment 1 to Zvonimir Mršić's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69819	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Amendment 1 of Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Vlad's representative is not accepted, because we believe that with an increased position for decentralised funds that will be sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69820	Thank you. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69821	Well, you answered the same question, Mr. Minister, when the budget was being passed. I then proposed a billion 240 million, you've even now increased that to a billion 243 million. So I think that can't be enough because the implementation of the state budget in the last year for these purposes was a billion 390 million. Since the degree of decentralisation remained the same, unfortunately it did not increase, but it remained the same, it is quite certain that a billion, 243 million cannot be enough to meet the needs of decentralised functions spent last year on a billion 390 million kunas. I therefore ask that this amendment be voted on, and I hope that we will meet at the budget for this year and see who was right.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69822	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Second, the HSS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69823	The government doesn't accept for reasons that it's simply impossible to know what kind of an elemental disaster will be, so this amount is proposed like this. If there are major natural disasters, then it will be settled from the current reserve, which is ultimately defined by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69824	Representative Bozidar Pankretić please. Excuse me, Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69825	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I agree that these funds are planned on the basis of forecasts because it is really impossible to assess the damage. However, with us it is still in force of the Protection Act against the elemental disasters which... provides in the state budget. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]] We have passed a new law that changes the compensation model of damages and protection against natural disasters and, first of all, the damages will not be borne by those users, or producers who have received support. Based on previous experience with the next forecasts ahead of us, we believe that these funds should be increased so that at least in the year that the previous modified way, i.e. the compensation model for the damage caused by the elemental accidents, producers could get just one thing. Well, we know, Mr. Minister, and we are witnessing that in the distribution of funds to partially remove damage from elemental disasters, it often happens to be some symbolic amount, and that symbolic amount actually introduces a mess in local self-government units, because units of local self-government have spent far more resources than those peasants are compensated for. That it could be more significant to compensate for damages from natural disasters also showed in 2003 when 25% of the estimated damage was calmed down from the state budget. I don't know why we don't use positive experiences at that year. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69826	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Third, the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69827	The government doesn't accept for a few reasons. First of all, in the State budget of 2006, funds were planned to help municipalities and cities and counties from areas of special state concern and this is defined in Article 33 of the quoted law. The funds are also planned for Požega-Slavon County, which are the difference between the aid that the county would achieve on the basis of legal criteria for the return of income taxes. Another thing for the government is an unacceptable reduction in the positions from which it is proposed, above all, it is unacceptable for us to reduce the planned funds for the subsidy to shipyards of 90 million kuna and if the position would decrease the shipyards would come into a very difficult, practically unsustainable situation. A reduction of 20 million would also raise the issue of the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the withdrawal of pre-accession funds of the European Union and the adjustment of the fiscal system of the Republic of Croatia. And finally for the third reason, this request is not based on any legal basis, I think we should wait for the state audit to be found and, on the basis of the existing legal rules of the Republic of Croatia to solve the problem of Požega-Slavon County, because if we do not trust the state audit then I no longer know who we can trust. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69828	Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69829	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. This SDP proposal was eager to try to secure some of the funding from the state budget because the second part, then the county could seek itself as a solution to pay the creditors. It means resuscitating the entire county, and on the other hand, resuscitating a very difficult situation in the county itself. You are well aware that the part and employees have not already received a few months' salary, and if the common state, county and creditors do not find a solution it will be very difficult to find a solution to this problem and therefore the SDP club has gone with this proposal. I accept that on your part they may not be positions that are acceptable to the government when we talk about a reduction in budgets, but they are only indicated that we are actually hearing from your side which could potentially be reduced by such high amounts. It was therefore possible to discuss the part, whether these positions or other positions, or perhaps even less deficit cuts, if one county is concerned. When we talk about legal assumptions, there is no need for legal assumptions, because there are no legal assumptions when we talk about helping the county and helping other local self-government units. It is about an attempt to understand that for the development of local self-government a certain contribution of the state budget is necessary and we have assessed for such difficult failures that occurred in the previous period that the goodwill of the Government of the Republic of Croatia would be a sign and development and assistance of local self-government units. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69830	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 4., representatives Branimir Glavas, Ivan Drmić, Vladimir Šišljagić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69831	The government does not accept the amendment because it proposes an increase of 37 million kuna and at the same time in reduced positions, 30 million kuna has been proposed to reduce individual positions. Therefore, the 7 million kuna increase remained uncovered. Therefore, the amendment has not been submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and as such the Government cannot accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69832	Representative Ivan Drmić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69833	I would point to this big problem that has been emerging for a long time in Slavonia. And you're probably all already familiar, if nothing else, if you haven't been to Slavonia, then through the media to the mosquito problem. It is already but very alarming, and in Slavonia it is impossible to live off that fasting. I must also point out that in the current period under political and media pressure, the government has authorised certain funds for the City of Osijek, but I think it is sufficient to say in this way that you all know what mosquitoes are and that they do not know the administrative boundaries. And if it wasn't enough to be so versed, spontaneously destroy mosquitoes, I think it takes one selective approach, treat them both in Đakov, both in Nasice and in other municipalities and cities of Slavonia. This is the only way to lead to some results and a solution to these problems. I think that the government is obliged to ensure a normal life for citizens in the territory of Croatia as well as for Slavonia and Baranja. I would ask to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69834	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 5th Amendment, MPs Mato Arlović and Mato Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69835	The government does not accept for reasons why the Ministry of the Interior plans to build a Slavonski Brod police administration in funds that will be provided from the Public-private Partnership project next year after public competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69836	Representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69837	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, here's the explanation we've heard six times. The reason why I and my colleague Arlovic submitted this amendment lies in the fact that for many years the police administration of Brod-Posavina County has been working in rented rooms. He's working on several locations under non-optimal conditions. And despite the fact that a building permit for this facility has been issued, so it's either a novelty or reduced, they said it's too large an object. Once the building permit has been re-enacted, we hear again from the government that there is no money, or that it will be built when conditions are obtained. I would ask you, Mr. Minister, to hear the answer when will it be? From your answer that it is suspected that neither a year nor in the next budget this building will be realised. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69838	... Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. [[Specially enabled.]] 6th Representative Željko Pavlica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69839	The government does not accept the funds of 7 million and 600,000 under the programme to promote the export activities of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. The funds for incentives and exports are also located in other programme activities of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship relating to the competitiveness of economic facilities, and the taking of funds at the site of shipbuilding subsidies would endanger the dynamics of shipbuilding and which are consistent with the amount of 390 million total subsidies to Croatian shipyards.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69840	Representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69841	I've been setting a amendment like this a few times. Unfortunately, he's never been accepted before. So just to remind you that in the textile and leather industry in the Republic of Croatia, 38 thousand workers were employed. Most of these are women and the industry is the most developed, therefore, in the counties of northwestern Croatia. What is most important, therefore, is that almost 90% of the product of the leather and textile industries is exportable, and at the same time, these exporters, unlike some other branches of industry, have no support whatsoever. The minister had told another amendment earlier, therefore, that if the shipbuilders were to be taken or reduced by subsidies, they would be in a very difficult situation. The textiles, the leather, the woodworking industry, are already, for years now, in a very difficult situation. They don't have any support from the state. This was also warned a month ago by representatives of the shoe leather industry of the trade union, e.g. in the County of Međimurje when there was a state economic social council. I also sent one letter to Prime Minister Sanader, where I appeal to him to come with help because I think this 7 million kuna is too little, therefore, too little resources to give more important support to our exporters. I think you should give it to those who haven't had any help yet. I'm asking the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69842	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 7., representatives Vladimir Šišljagić, Branimir Glavas and Ivan Drmić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69843	The Ministry of Economy, the Government does not accept this amendment because the funds in activities are sufficient according to the dynamics of the construction of entrepreneurship zones and infrastructures in these entrepreneurship zones.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69844	Representative Ivan Drmić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69845	I would disagree with the minister because according to my information and what I read through the media, I think it is much more invested by the government and the state in business zones in other parts of Croatia. In Slavonia, we simply don't have any recognizable free zone. I can specifically say on the case of Osijek where it is being prepared, means complete papers arranged, building permits for several business-economic zones. However, the City of Osijek as well as any other city other than Zagreb in Croatia cannot provide enough resources to create a specific municipal infrastructure, so that these business zones can live. I think the state is obliged to help just as it helped... /The speaker turned off, then subsequently turned on./ HDZ... Turns it off. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I would ask that this be put to the vote, because I think it is, Minister, and your obligation because you swore an oath to fight for a better life in the Republic of Croatia, and you have never done so evenly.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69846	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 8, representatives Vladimir Šišljagić, Branimir Glavas and Ivan Drmic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69847	The government does not accept this amendment for the reason that already during this year and in early April provided for the Archaeological Museum in Osijek, or for the reconstruction of the building for that purpose, 10 million kuna, which is also the contract made up of the Archaeological Museum in Osijek. And how the works and documentation will be completed in early September, so by the end of the year the funds will be sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69848	Representative Ivan Drmić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69849	I hope it won't be the same situation as with the restoration of the Fortress and some other projects in the culture of Slavonia. It means it's all on promise. I'd like to withdraw this amendment with the conviction that you won't fool us this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69850	Amendment withdrawn. The ninth, MPs Mato Arlović and Mato Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69851	The government does not accept the proposed amendment and this is because the funds for the reconstruction of this church were secured in 2003 and were not used there in the amount of 130,000 kuna. In 2004, 110 thousand kuna funds were used only in 2005, and this year 200 thousand kuna were provided for... the works we consider sufficient and that they will be able to be realized. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69852	Representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69853	Mr. Secretary of State, it is pleasant to hear that you have secured the money but the only accident that this money has not been used or has not been put into office in order to bring this 2100 31-year-old cultural monument to the church, I would say the necessary condition. And this year there's nothing in this church that's been done, the truth of the 110 thousand kunas you're talking about has been spent, the church is in that state, and perhaps it's best to be witnessed by the President of the Parliament, Mr. Shakespeare, who is an honorary citizen of the Sibil Municipality. He is in such a state that the believers must wear protective helmets to the church treatment of the maltene. I'm asking you one more time to... I don't know if my colleague Sockovic or the others don't want to hear this, so I guess that's why they're shutting down, but here's the vote, but please these 200 thousand kuna and helmets. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69854	Yes, because the local priest doesn't want to simply stick to order and law so that money can't be spent. What? I know this situation very well. [[Intruder: That's not true, Mr. President.]] Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. The 10th, the House of Representatives Club of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69855	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. The government does not accept amendment number ten for the reason that there is already an item in the budget at the position of a horizontal measure of 5 million kuna and can stress that the tender for construction... be announced soon. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Just to point out that by 2003 we had a total of 13,000 tonnes of storage space in the freezers, and that in 2004 and 2005 we co-financed and built another 19,000 tonnes of storage space.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69856	Representative Zeljko Ledinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69857	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So I'm surprised she doesn't have it directly in the budget of an item like this that has always been, no matter what she has under the other items. I do not think that we will be able to implement the operational programme of raising the multi-annual plantations of orchards, vineyards and olive groves that we have brought, and also since we voted the other day to provide services on forest land that we will raise these plantations, and that we do not honestly follow the adequate rise of the refrigerator and the rest, so we will not spend anywhere near the programme we have drawn up and therefore ask to vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69858	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Eleventh, also the HSS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69859	The government does not accept this amendment for the reason that the funds for establishing a agricultural chamber are sufficient at the planned amount because it simply cannot form a agricultural chamber until the law is passed, the law is in the process and today, if I am not mistaken, was also a session of the Committee for Drafting the Law on the Agricultural Chamber.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69860	Representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69861	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, I think it's very clear and it's several times and it's directly from Mr. Prime Minister that this is a law that for these reasons and passed the first reading, but it would be extremely sad to keep it on the first reading, but it must, frankly, I believe in the second reading and must be passed, at least such clear promises on that day. I must say, if there's anything we want to do, then we need to be aware of the fact that with 50 thousand kuna, we won't be able to do it. What is objectively put into trouble here, we know what the law looks like, the law to be implemented in that part of it needs direct elections that should take place after the law is passed. If we passed the law, which I honestly believe, at the 9th month we would be ready to go to the agricultural chamber elections by the end of the year. What am I stressing that for? Because almost identical legislation has already been in the process of the end of the term of the last government and because this electoral process has begun to overlap with the electoral processes, the election year for Parliament comes the question of the general implementation and this is now the reason why we wanted to increase this item to enter these processes urgently and to objectively implement them. If we transfer it and postpone this whole process, unfortunately, I'm afraid it'll be this law in the first reading that doesn't fit what we agreed on and what we all stand for. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69862	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 12. The same club of representatives of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69863	The Government does not accept this amendment for the reasons that the planned funds for this activity for 2006 have been established in accordance with the measures laid down in the legal acts. I would like to emphasise that this position will normally continue to be strengthened in the coming years, that in the 2006 budget this doubled position is, but it is also important to note that the pre-accession funds will also be able to provide significant funds for rural development.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69864	Representative Bozidar Pankretic. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 13 also to the HSS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69866	The government does not accept this amendment because it is unable to provide this kind of funds for this position. At this position, these changes and the additions to the budget are an increase of EUR 101 million and according to this, and will be made to the maximum amount encouraged to meet the needs and opportunities available.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69867	Representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69868	Just this last Mr. Minister where you said the possibilities within the budget and all these needs that you're certainly convinced as well as I won't be enough. It's a simple bill. 80% of the money was spent. In fact, a billion 323 million of the projected billion 711. It's simple math. If there's a minimum incentive for wheat only at 2 000 250 now, we'll be looking for more and more in that part, you know it'll be spent at least 250 if you don't have more than a million kuna. If you add that at the monthly level we spend 50 million kunas for milk and we've paid off means only up to 4 months you have money and that's 50 per month, multiply by another four months, that's 200 million you get to the amount of a billion and 700 million kuna. And you don't have any money at the 9th, 10th month. I mean, that must be made clear to the Croatian public. There won't be any money. I mean, that's a problem that needs to be dealt with clearly. We can accept the inability, this, what, but the money won't be, and I think it's clear in this amendment that this amount should have been increased. And these 100 million kunas are not enough at all but should be as much bigger as we suggested. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69869	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 14 also to the HSS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69870	The government does not accept this amendment for the reason that the 2006 budget has already seen an increase in these items of 12.5% by the end of June 2006 for these activities 55 million kuna has been spent and according to the dynamics and the amount of funds received will fully satisfy the amount of funds to be paid by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69871	Representative Bozidar Pankretić
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69872	Look, Mr. Minister, you know that capital investments are one of the most direct measures to help Croatian agriculture. We are all when we talk about agriculture aware that without this technological progress, without new technology, without new machines we can't go forward and we think that this item that unfortunately is spent in five months with 30% means with 1/3 is not the result of no demands and you know it well. There's a lot of demands, but unfortunately the demands are processed, they're standing in drawers. And this is the only measure that we can most effectively take to improve the overall agricultural situation in this part. And even more. We had to raise these 25% to at least 50% to help. Anyone who wants to invest in agriculture let's give him the best help in getting machines, technology, building stables, etc. Because we think that's the way to help is the most concrete. And I don't think this measure is selective, it's for everyone. Therefore, whoever makes the investment according to those principles comes automatically to the funds and that will certainly be insufficient and will be insufficient for reasons because all requirements will definitely not be processed but will wait and stand in drawers. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69873	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 15. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69874	The government does not accept this amendment. In accordance with the established activities for the implementation of the SAPARD programme, the resources provided for 2006 will be sufficient as the tender is planned during this month and the application will last until half of September 2006. It is very important here to note that these funds can be used only after the investment has been completed and that the programme continues in 2007 and 2008 when they will need to secure larger amounts of funds. Our interest is extremely large to withdraw as much resources from the SAPARD as possible because it will be a springboard and for the next IPARD pre-accession fund because in the end, the absorption power of Croatian agricultural producers is being examined at the SAPARD and how much they can withdraw funds from pre-accession funds, which is very important to us for the next period. I must stress that during the next week we will probably launch a tender for the use of SAPARD funds and stress that it would have broken certain speculation that this is the shortest deadline in which one of the candidate countries has managed to carry out all the activities since the adoption of the SAPARD plan, the establishment of the SAPARD Agency and accreditation both domestically and by the European Commission, and here we are starting with the implementation of the SAPARD.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69875	Representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69876	I just have to say. Look at it this way. We listen to the story from year to year about it so well there's no money in the budget but there will be money from pre-accession funds. We're hearing about it, it's going to be an accredited agency, we hear it's accredited, and I'm afraid of the Minister that we haven't received accreditation from Brussels yet, and I'm glad if you told the truth that we did. However, it is evident that we did not again do what we needed to do. And I think that's a general problem. We can't talk from year to year. We'll get some funding, and we heard about it last year for 2006. Now we hear about 2006 we don't need it because we can't come, we'll get it in 2007 eventually 2008. I'm afraid it's going to come that year and there won't be any money, and this time here you can see that it's reduced to a miserable 12%, which means that we haven't prepared ourselves, we haven't accredited the agency, and the money won't come. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69877	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 16. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69878	The Government does not accept this amendment with the same explanation as for the previous one because it is an international component or component of the European Union. And I must repeat once again that during the next week, a tender will be launched that the accreditation job is completed and that, in accordance with the agreement with the European Commission, we can go to tendering. And so I appreciate your... Mr. Representative, but here I assure you, you don't have to be afraid anymore. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Sapard will launch.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69879	I was persuaded by the minister. I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69880	Amendment withdrawn 16. Amendment 17. The HSS counseling club?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69881	The government does not accept this amendment. The funds allocated to the Food Agency are sufficient in the planned amount of the draft budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69882	Representative Bozidar Pankretić, i.e. Cačija.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69883	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. We've established the Food Agency, determined the amount in this position of three and a half million kuna. We believe that these are insufficient funds so that this agency can actually do its part. And that's an analysis of the risks to food health and so on. Therefore, the Agency could indeed be in the right sense of saying that it can meet the requirements of food law, hygiene and so on, it is necessary to have a sufficient number of experts, that it has a well-equipped laboratory. This I believe will be effective in stopping food imports of questionable quality and protecting domestic production. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69884	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 18. The HSS counseling club?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69885	The government does not accept this amendment for the reasons that the planned funds will be sufficient and here I must stress that this is a project of building major markets that the Ministry goes together with the associated fishermen as well as with the regional and local self-government and wherever the space-planned documentation takes place, the ministry will also support the project, but we already know from contact with certain counties that these are sufficient funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69886	Agent Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69887	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, the position of fishing in the Republic of Croatia depends on many factors. The status of the fisherman is well known. That's bad. The fishing fleet is in such a state that it can no longer practically compete with anyone in the wide or narrow environment. The failure to activate the fishing-environment zone is an additional burden that speaks in favour of the fact that the state of fishing is bad, but another very significant factor such as the market definitely points to us that the state of fishing and fishing is extremely bad. Average consumption per capita of 8kg of fish that does not move up, but falls below speaks of an alarming state in total fishing. Our goal to get up to 16 kilos per capita is something we can only imagine at this point. The fact that the wholesalers as the main way in which this market interest is being realised is not yet available. There are 60 majors in Italy. The price of fish compared to Croatia-Italy for those who catch fish in Croatia 2 EUR, in Italy 10 EUR. That's what a fisherman's position looks like, and it's not just a declarative change. Therefore, if we want to reach not Italy but if we want to achieve our needs, Croatian needs. If we want to maintain this poor level of fishing, we need to make a market step and it is primarily possible in wholesale markets and creating market conditions that we need, with a clear build-up of the fleet that we do not build, to create genuine interest by declaring the ecological and fisheries belt and all of these preconditions, we can create a new state in fishing. That's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69888	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 19. The HSS counseling club?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69889	The government does not accept this amendment for the reasons that this has been calculated and sufficient resources for the project co-financing of the construction of fishing vessels at the positions of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy and I would like to stress that this very government has taken the first step with the introduction of incentive measures both for the construction of ships and for the resolution of the necessary infrastructure from fishing ports, landing sites and major markets, and that we are aware that our fishermen have been prevented from doing better business and therefore since this year we have introduced compensation by invoice. So to keep the fish at 14%, which is a significant item in helping our fishermen until they get the necessary infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69890	Representative Luka Roic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69891	Thank you, Mr. President. In the HSS, we insist on increasing the items on these precisely programmes and remind that just past the government and the Ministry of Agriculture initiated this programme. Unfortunately, we are all in a declarative sense both for maritime orientation and for the Adriatic orientation of Croatia and for the use of all marine resources, and when this is to be shown with financial support in the Budget, we are very cheap. We estimate that these funds are insufficient for exactly what Mr. Ante Markov was talking about to happen. That the competition that drives everyone to the maximum means both technical equipment and the ability to use a particular resource in Croatia is not recognised as a priority. Unfortunately, all this, which has so far been said is a weak amount of consummated fish in Croatia. Double or bottom European average. Double as in similar countries is alarming, alarming data. Certainly, it should also be encouraged to subsidise the construction of a fishing fleet with larger means, because it is the only way that we can also implement the programme and what we have declared an economic belt or protected eco-fishing belt. Without a trained fleet, without a fisherman who can use that resource, we won't actually achieve anything. And therefore, I ask that this request of the HSS be respected for an increase in funds and I request a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69892	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 20. Also the HSS Representative Club?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69893	The government does not accept this amendment because of the inability to implement the proposed amount in 2006 since irrigation projects require comprehensive time preparation, the development of an idea solution, the development of an idea and main project with elaborates, the development of an idea project based on which a local authorisation is obtained. And the main project is done on the basis of which the building permit is obtained and ultimately moves with the project implemented. For those activities that have been prepared during this year, co-financing funds have been provided.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69894	Representative Zeljko Ledinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69895	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. Well, from these answers I hear from the minister it seems we're not prepared for anything, and we haven't made the permits, we haven't made certain assumptions that something could be fulfilled, in these other amendments or in this one. With these minimum 16 million that are foreseen here it is actually a drop in the sea and it is known how much damage the previous years have been caused by drought and if you want to raise and implement the operational programme of planting orchards, vineyards, olive groves and others and not follow with irrigation systems for which certain funds should be provided, then from the implementation of this programme there will be nothing and then all that we have done and once again mentioning and through the giving of forests to raise olive groves and the rest will remain only the possibility of some abuse and everything else. And because of this, neither the irrigation project that was from the national programme will be implemented, and we could at least allocate part of the resources from the levy that was adopted by the Water Charge Regulation, which has dramatically increased all charges for the construction of certain facilities in particular. Please vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69896	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 21. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69897	The government does not accept this amendment for the reason that the increase in the amount is not in line with the already established redistribution of funds within the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy and I would just like to point out that the Ministry together with the Swedish Government and with the donation of the Swedish Government is working intensively on pilots of agricultural land mining projects, which is one of the priority activities of this ministry and where we will get some answers to questions about what to do and how to address the issue of agricultural land circulation and agricultural land regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69898	Representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69899	Mr. Minister, I must tell you that I especially appreciate that the Swedish government is helping us, but I assure you the Swedish people will not solve our problem unless we solve it ourselves, and to explain to you that as a colleague, there is no point in what agricultural land means. A million kunas that are designed to regulate agricultural land are really a drop in the sea of the necessary means if we want to, and we have the potential to bring some land to its end. I think without, you know, rounding up the land, the adventures, all those processes haven't been done in almost 15 years. This way, by saying that our agriculture needs to be competitive, that our farmers must be bigger, they can't be bigger because they don't have agricultural land. In this way, the state has the greatest involvement of how I support projects but the state with resources can only expect something positive to happen. I hope so because this is the last one on behalf of the club that he'll be accepted, so since he's not, I'm pulling him out.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69900	The MP withdrew Amendment 20th and first. 22nd Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69901	The amendment is not accepted because the implementation of this investment has been provided by the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 20 June 2006 for the implementation of the Coprivnica and Križevci County Regional Water Programme for the period from 2007 to 2011.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69902	Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69903	Your Honor, what I'm looking for is not in that program, it's for this year when you're building highway water, and you're predicting a million-and-a-half kuna for which you can build a mile-a-half of state water supply. Therefore, the programme, or agreement, which will only be signed on the basis of the government's conclusion, refers to completely different areas. I think it is insufficient for the state budget to be allocated only a mile and a half of the county's master waterway, where the minimum availability of the water supply system is for citizens this year, so please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69904	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 23. Representatives Branimir Glavas, Ivan Drmic, Vladimir Šišljagić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69905	The amendment is not accepted because the Chapin highway pipeline, Vladislavci, the Wolf is not fully prepared project documentation for the realization and therefore lacks a building permit for this project.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69906	Representative Ivan Drmić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69907	I wouldn't accept the minister's argument. Complete documentation is near the end and will be ready in the next few days. In particular, I would like to stress that a very important resource can be saved means a compact implementation together with a collector where earth’s work can be done at the same cost for both the collector and one such pipeline. I think you're doing a verse and you need to work thoroughly, you need to coordinate these two projects, and they're definitely going to cost less, and both of them are going to be done in that area. And in the end, I would just point out that the residents of these places that you listed drink unquality water, that their children drink water that is questionable and at the border to ban the use of water from current water lines. I would ask you to do something, to accept this amendment, and to do it with less resources than you will normally give to execute and complete this project.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69908	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 24th Representatives Branimir Glavas, Ivan Drmić, Vladimir Šišljagić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69909	The amendment is not accepted, as part of the facility is being implemented together with the main collection collector and it is ongoing.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69910	Representative Ivan Drmić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69911	I don't know why you don't accept it because obviously the profession said that it would be necessary to move that collector off the track so far and as I said along with the water line to set up along the road D7. It is obvious that the local government and Croatian water will no longer be able to borrow or to allocate the necessary amount of money from their resources, and I think that the government should certainly be involved in the implementation of this project.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69912	The vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69913	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69914	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The Ministry of the Sea, tourism, transport and development. 25th Amendment of Representatives Vladimir Šišljagić, Branimir Glavas, Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69915	The government does not accept for the reason that during 2006, a significant number of railway and road crossings will be financed and dealt with as part of major projects such as 5B1. It's Ostari, Knin, Split. Corridor 5C Beli Manastir, Osijek, Vrpolje and on Corridor 10.a the funds in the budgetary position T570375 amounting to 26 million kuna are intended for individual resolution on the other lines. The development of the railway and road crossing resolution programme has been completed in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia will present by the end of 2006 as a national programme. And the amount of 26 million 265,000 kuna is enough for these spring crossings that are not part of these large road routes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69916	Representative Ivan Drmić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69917	I wouldn't agree with you. I come from that area and I know exactly what the situation is. The future corridor 5C, which is just in the performance of the intersection of the city of Djakovo in two parts and in three places passes through the narrow center of the city of Osijek. And right now with this current track with which the vehicle was reduced in intensity, there was a traffic collapse and it was simply unsustainable. I just can't even imagine what it's going to be when that 5C rail is made with that train dynamic that's going to go through it. You simply won't be able to live there and those two cities will simply be halved and will not have that necessary communication. Also, when working on a plan for the city of Đakovo, I was present, where an expert from the Croatian Railways said no denevillation of the crossing across corridor 5C is planned because it is expensive. If it is expensive and if it is not planned, I suggest that corridor 5C is not built because it is not necessary because it simply will not be able to live normally in Osijek or in Djakovo. I suggest that it be transferred to Split or Velika Gorica because there are enough overpasses and underpasses there, and somehow this railroad will fit in. I'm looking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69918	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 26th Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69919	The government does not accept for the reason that T570360 is the modernisation and construction of the track on corridor 5B the activities of starting to change the system drag for Strljevo-Bakar stock and activities on the construction of the second track on the long village-Križevci railway. The allocated funds amounting to 50 million time and are financially in line with the plan of action, and in the next period they have a trend of increase, which is visible from the 2007 budget projections of 344 million kuna and budget projections for 2008... A million kunas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69920	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69921	I am sorry that there is no Minister Kalmeta here who has answered my parliamentary question that this year will be followed by a remont of the railway station Križevci and a continuation of the Križevci-Koprivnica. For this there is obviously no such 50 million is foreseen for the Karlovac-Rijek stock and therefore according to that representative’s or the minister’s answer to the parliamentary question I have foreseen here an increase in funds. Since the construction of the second track before 2007 is not planned, the question of the sustainability of rail traffic on this stock is at all, because already on the Križevci-Koprivnica section is a burden and maintenance at such a low level that the question of how much goods and passengers will be able to drive during the future period, especially since the construction of the second track on Koprivnica-Križevci shares is not yet an environmental impact study or an idea study. So, I suggest that votes on this amendment be voted on and that minimum funds be provided this year for the remounted railways at the railway station Križevci and the continuation of the Križevci-Koprivnica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69922	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 27th Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69923	The government does not accept the reason why the Croatian Railway Modernisation Programme provides for the budgetary position of environmental protection and provides 35 million, 35.7 million kuna, which is an increase of 15.7 million kuna compared to 2005. And we believe that the intended funds are related to the recovery of environmentally unacceptable objects will also be sufficient for the recovery of the Botovo freight car wash.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69924	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69925	The same answer was to adopt the budget. So Minister Kalmeta answered the same thing, and then he said that he would start the car recovery in the first half of this year. Not that it didn't begin to resuscitate the car wash, but the government has just decided that by the end of the year the wagons will no longer be monitored there. So neither is it, nor is there sufficient resources, nor are they intended at all, obviously for the rehabilitation of the Botovo freight car wash, but even reportedly will now be joined only to make studies for the car wash to be rehabilitated. I propose to return this item, because this item was in the 2004 budget. I, too, was asked to vote on this amendment, to return the item and to approach the removal of one of several black points that the European Union has designated as black ecological points in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69926	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 287 representatives Branimir Glavas, Ivan Drmic and Vladimir Šišljagić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69927	The government does not accept the amendment for the simple reason that the preparation of the construction of the southern bypass... The road. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And since the Croatian Roads' financial plan is not the subject of this rebalancing. Therefore, you cannot even talk about this amendment because for the purpose of building the second wheel of the Croatian road, there was a location permit which will also be issued under... the possibilities to realise this project. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69928	Representative Ivan Drmić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69929	I disagree with the minister's reply. Because I remember, it's still fresh for me that we recently discussed at the Croatian Assembly on the Split bypass and then it wasn't a matter of rebalance of the Croatian Roads budget. I would point out that this bypass, the southern bypass of the city of Osijek, crosses 16 thousand vehicles a day. That's almost as much to you as you've been on the Dalmatian highway all winter. I think traffic is strong enough to already have the conditions to make two more tapes, which was planned back in 1972 when it started to work. The communists in that former system have made half, and at the same time since we created the Croatian state, the Croatian state has done nothing about it. I would ask you to accept this amendment, to make these extra two strips, because especially by ending corridor 5C if you ever finish traffic... He'll be intolerable. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]] It will simply not be able to be transported by a narrow bypass without traffic accidents and without traffic congestion. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69930	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 29. Representatives Branimir Glavas, Ivan Drmić, Vladimir Šišljagić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69931	The government does not accept since the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development has no plans in its positions to draw up plans for the county. Therefore, this amendment cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69932	Representative Ivan Drmić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69933	I wouldn't accept this argument either. The fact is that Slavonia has something to offer in tourism from cultural things, fun things, natural beauty, although it doesn't look like it in the media, so it doesn't look like it. Because it turns out that there are only war crimes committed there, there's nothing but gum, bacon and other gastronomic specialties. Slavonia is something else after all. I would ask for a change in the attitude of the state government towards Slavonia, especially the tourist community and all other bodies. The proof is what I say and tourist panoramas on Croatian television where you simply don't have any work from Zagreb east, no object, no event that would be accompanied. You can see in the morning the cameras are exchanged in Dalmatia, Istria, in Zagreb and the surrounding area. Slavonia just doesn't have one. I would also ask you to help in this case to make a master plan for the development of tourism in your area, because it will significantly contribute to the development of tourism and quality of life in the area of Slavonia and Baranja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69934	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Ministry of Protection, the environment, spatial planning and construction, representatives Vladimir Šišljagić, Branimir Glavas and Ivan Drmić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69935	The amendment is not accepted for the reasons why we believe that the Agency's working resources are sufficient, and in addition, according to the report on the work of the agencies submitted on the Governing Council, the agency has unexpended funds of around 2.5 million kuna in the past 2004 and 2005. Therefore, with these resources set out in the budget and with what has not yet been realised, it is quite enough for the Agency to implement projects that... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69936	Representative Ivan Drmić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69937	He would also disagree with the explanation. The money is allotted, and soon after that, it's coming off, so you wouldn't be able to spend it fast. Three million kunas are secured in the original plan. I think that, most ministers invested more money in their apartments, houses and cottages, and you can imagine how small that amount should be spent in a small fortress that is a jewel of Croatian culture. The only flaw that lies far from Zagreb is in the wrong direction, towards the east. I think if you want to do anything to preserve that one jewel, to remain as beautiful as it used to be, to accept this amendment, because then it will be a small drop in the sea and much less than those needs that are real. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69938	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, 31 amendments, representatives Vladimir Šišljagić, Branimir Glavas and Ivan Drmić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69939	The government does not accept this amendment because the planned funds of 20 million kuna are sufficient to plan a general investment in 2006.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69940	Representative Ivan Drmić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69941	That may be enough when you from Istria see that 20 million kuna is enough to repair and build schools in Slavonia area. I have to draw attention to the fact that there's been a war there for several years and that a series of schools have been destroyed, devastated. Unfortunately, it's been 15 years, and those schools are still standing so ruined. Perhaps when seen from Istria, they are not in such a bad state, and I would still ask you to support this amendment and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69942	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 31, Agent Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69943	The amendment by the Government does not accept because we believe that the funds provided are sufficient, but I would like to make it clear if the funds are not sufficient because it is small then it will be secured from the current reserve.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69944	Representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69945	Thank you very much. This explanation of mine now refers to this amendment of 32 and 35, and it is already an established practice that your ministry behaves in the following way. First, it makes it harder to do certain jobs, then cuts the money in the budget. I can't accept that. The fact that you, Mr. Šetić, promise me that it will come from the reserve, as if I promise to pay the debts of Croatia. Neither do I have that money, nor does your ministry have reservations. Since I did not get a guarantee from the minister but from you who do not have a reservation, of course I will ask for a vote, and in advance I will say that if we are going to need money from the reserve and we are not going to get it, that I am now declaring that I will not vote for the budget at 12 months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69946	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 33, MP Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69947	The government does not accept this amendment because the planned funds of 2 million kuna are sufficient to realise the planned... 2006. [[You don't understand, because of the bad footage and the noise in the hall.]] In addition, the funds provided in relation to all sources of the state budget of the Međimurje County and Kotoriba Municipality are sufficient in relation to real dynamics and investment scope.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69948	Representative Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69949	I would disagree, so just to remind you that the construction of Kotoriba elementary school began three years ago with the funds of the county and the county and the municipalities and that two years ago the works have been stopped, so nothing is being built. This year there is a reduction in the projected funds for a million kuna. So it was planned to spend 3 million kuna on school construction, now a million kuna has been taken down and we've come to 2 million kunas. As I said before, two years has already been a break in the continuing construction of Kotoriba elementary school. I think that school should be rapidly built, so there should be even more funding. So I appeal to move forward as soon as possible to build this school, because it has not yet continued today by building that school, and therefore I would like to ask that this amendment be voted upon, reminding that the primary school of Mala Subotica is also reduced from 9 million to 7 million, but fortunately there is a school and hall already built. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69950	Please vote. Thank you. The amendment didn't get the required majority. 34, representatives Branimir Glavas, Ivan Drmić and Vladimir Šišljagić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69951	The government does not accept all this because it is called the purposes and additions, amendments and additions of the Law on Fundamental Education of 2001 are provided in the budgets of counties, cities that finance decentralised functions.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69952	Representative Ivan Drmić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69953	I don't accept the argument, because you're also aware that this money that goes through the county budget is not enough to maintain these existing sports halls either. I would stress that this hall that was started in Djurđenovac so far has been invested in it by a million and 900 thousand kuna by the municipality and 800 thousand kuna by the county. The state has so far given nothing even though there is a school of about 800 children, I don't think it's small, and today they play physical and physical activities in snow and rain, and to tell the truth can also be confirmed by the president of the Parliament who is godfather to this sports hall and here I am also taking the opportunity to give him the greetings of these 800 children with whom he took his picture in 2000 when there was the laying of a rock foundation. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69954	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 35, Agent Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69955	The government doesn't accept. We believe that the funds are provided... If the funds really are not enough we will provide in the current reserve and I would like to warn the honourable representative that only 72 thousand kunas and such funds in the reserve are sufficient, and with regard to this capital facility and the construction of the sports hall in Pula the tender is only open and the documentation is being considered and will be introduced soon and the contractor in the business, so that these funds are absolutely sufficient to monitor this investment and the facility will be very soon completed. [[Because of the bad footage, the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69956	Representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69957	Mr. Secretary of State, this project will cost $11 million. If we're not able to spend a million and a half kuna right now in six months as long as it takes us until the end of the year, count on how long it will take to build that school. I don't accept anything like that. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69958	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 36, Zvonimir Mršić's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69959	The government does not accept because the funds for these purposes are already planned at the position of the sports programme during summer and winter holidays, an open school.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69960	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69961	It's the same minister answered or you were, I think, on budgeting, but simply youth sports games didn't get a decision. Youth sports games began 15 days ago to be spent throughout Croatia. The organisers still have no decision of the minister either on the funds or can count on those funds. I ask you either accept my amendment or react to someone calling them or forwarding them a decision to know how much I can engage, how much I can engage. It is a great activity during the summer where several thousand children are engaged in sports in public spaces all summer, and the winners of these competitions are staying in Split for several days. The contests have begun and I ask you to make a decision and adopt my amendment. I will withdraw the amendment, but I urge you to forward the decision to them, and I would ask that you inform me of what you have done.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69962	Retracted amendment? Amendment withdrawn, thank you. 37 representatives of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69963	The government does not accept because the planned funds, especially in section 41, will be sufficient for the financing of the Croatian Olympic Committee's 2006 programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69964	She's a representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69965	Thank you very much. In fact, the revenues from the resources are available on the revenue side every year and despite this, the funds for the Croatian Olympic Committee are unfortunately insufficient. For example, there was also an additional article in Athens in 2004 of 20 million. And I remind you that this year, athletes took part in the Olympic Games, so that the total amount of funding planned for sport for this year will be significantly insufficient as every year. So I also suggested that my amendment be increased, and I also suggest that this item be increased nominally in the budget so that we do not have to go into corrections every year, into other budget items. So I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69966	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. Ministry of Health and Social Care, representatives Vladimir Šišljagić, Branimir Glavas, Ivan Drmic, 38th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69967	The government doesn't accept the amendment. Namely, the Ministry of Health and Social Care carried out a tender procedure for additional investment at the building house for children and... It's a home for carefree children without parental care. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And contracted, therefore, works are recited at a significantly more favourable price than the planned position, and for this reason there is no need for an increase in the planning position.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69968	Representative Ivan Drmić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69969	I hope it's as you say. I'll withdraw this amendment, but I don't know what you could have done for and what kind of work it is for 250,000 kuna. But here, I'll check it out. If not, we'll talk more.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69970	Amendment 38 withdrawn. 39th, MP Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69971	The amendment is not accepted, the MP knows. The funds for additional investment on construction buildings, the House for Children Koprivnica are provided practically through the World Bank loan funds at positions K-618-352 and K-618-354.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69972	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69973	I think there's been a change on June 20th because the government made the decision to return the children's home to the church on June 20th. And here I'm not proposing to secure the means to adapt, but to build a home. So, to introduce the item, as it took over the ministry and the city's commitment to build it by the end of 2008. Therefore, here I am not proposing to provide funds to improve the conditions but rather to determine the construction of a new home. I will withdraw the amendment here, but I ask you in the 2007 budget to predict, therefore, an item of building a home for children without proper family care in Koprivnica so that next year we can begin with the implementation of the government decision taken in Koprivnica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69974	Amendment 39 withdrawn. 40th Amendment, Representatives Vladimir Šišljagić, Branimir Glavas, Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69975	The government doesn't accept the amendment. Namely, the home for the mentally ill persons Osijek is also located in these positions that I said a little while ago, so from the World Bank project and the investment, so it goes back to 2007.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69976	Representative Ivan DRmić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69977	I don't think I can agree with your argument because the fact is that there were experts, a commission of construction that made one of the conclusions that an immediate recovery of that space was needed. And it has on several occasions been in the state budget, however, every year in the rebalancing process it comes down to zero. Also, your people at the ministry are aware of the situation and have agreed that it is necessary to jump to some of the resources urgently to address the situation in which this facility is currently located. I'd like to ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69978	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 41st, also representatives Vladimir Šišljagić, Branimir Glavas and Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69979	The government also does not accept the amendment. In fact, because of the changes in the Construction Act here, there have been some shortcomings in the project documentation. So we need to change the project's documentation, and then we need to start a new building permit. We are currently in the process, therefore, of changing project documentation. Of course, it will require a re-evaluation of the building permit. We just can't start the bidding process this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69980	Representative Ivan Drmić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69981	I wouldn't agree with the minister. All right, this is all he said, but I just don't accept that the deadline for these changes is so much that they won't be able to spend any money this year. I think it can be solved all in a month or two and the competition can be called immediately after that by the end of the year to perform most of the necessary works. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69982	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 42nd, representatives Vladimir Šišljagić, Branimir Glavas and Ivan Drmić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69983	Yes, the government doesn't accept the amendment. It's about the amendment before. So, as it can't, it's not going to build an object, of course it can't even go into the object's equipment. And I'm saying, the backdrop in everything is to change the construction law. So when we make new project documentation, a new building permit, we'll actually go both into construction and equipment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69984	Representative Ivan Drmić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69985	He wouldn't agree either. Otherwise, the dynamics of all the projects in our country are such that what is being solved in Western countries, which we are trying to do, which is being solved in 3, 4 or 5, 6 months with us, is being solved for 3, 4, 5 or 6 years. I would like this amendment to be voted on because I think it should work in parallel in all fields so that the sooner we get to the deadline, the day that this center will function the way it should.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69986	Please vote. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment to the 43rd Representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69987	The government doesn't accept the amendment. In view of the degree of performance of the works carried out by the tendering procedures and the project documentation which is not yet fully completed, it is not expected, of course, to be higher than the one envisaged, and therefore this current position is sufficiently assessed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69988	She's a representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69989	Namely, the 15 million proposed project documentation for the new KBC business facilities of Rijeka should be increased by this amount, since the construction of new KBC facilities has already been developed, and the City of Rijeka City Council adopted a detailed plan at its session on 27 October last year to organise the area of the new university campus and KBC on Trisat. That is why I propose this increase which is in line with Mr. Minister's promise during his visit to Rijeka last fall. Still, only this second part of the amendment, just over the past month, has cancelled at the KBC 5 X-ray devices that have caused a chaotic state and waiting in radiological diagnostics. It's similar with the equipment in the cardiology department while the magnetic resonance device is also off-drive. The estimated emergency interventions from the state budget of 1.3 million kuna are insufficient and therefore... the vote on this amendment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69990	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 44s Vladimir Šišljagić, Branimir Glavas and Ivan Drmić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69991	The government does not accept this amendment. Namely, the plan position is assessed as sufficient in view of the tendering procedures and the completion of the tendering procedures. I would like to add, in fact, that one large part of the funding goes from the loan of the Council of Europe three, which is actually something that we have practically and predicted for the development of cardiac surgery there and also for the future kidney transplant centre.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69992	Representative Ivan Drmić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69993	I also don't accept an explanation. In my explanation, it says that all the necessary documentation and the building permit, perhaps for not all the projects requested, can be arranged tomorrow, or call the competition. The only problem is to secure the money. To tell you the truth, I was in Osijek hospital, I was in Nasic, Vinkovac, and I also visited hospitals in Zagreb. So a few years ago, when I first came to Zagreb, I was wondering how many Zagreb hospitals were European, how modernized they were, and we just haven't invested particularly in all these years, and so it was bad that there were certain working damages because hospitals were thrown out by the Chetniks and the Yugoslav People's Army. Unfortunately, in that period since I first visited Zagreb hospitals through materials here, through the media, means that on all sides I see that in Zagreb it continues to invest, to get more modern equipment, to build new buildings, and simply in Osijek and what was in Nasice, Vinkovci crashes, people are also devastated, no matter how professional and educated they are simply not able to use this outdated equipment in old buildings without the necessary infrastructure to provide the necessary care to patients from Slavonia and Baranja. I'd like you to accept this amendment, ask to vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69994	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 45. Representatives Vladimir Šišljagić, Branimir Glavas and Ivan Drmić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69995	The government does not accept this amendment. So the answer is practically identical to this previous one. Namely, the plan position is more than enough since the main asset is included in... The Council of Europe three and these are positions here K618244 and K618242, but what is here may be... [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] He hasn't been before. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] It's really a good thing to mention that we're actually going to Osijek two big projects, that we're talking about one is nuclear medicine, a new building, new contents inside, and the other is moving actually psychiatry into one new facility.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69996	Representative Ivan Drmić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69997	As far as this supplement is concerned, I'm hoping it'll be some of it because I've been listening to it for years, but there's no way at least a cornerstone is buried. As for this amendment the last three years ago, the state returned the building of a pulmonary hospital to a Catholic church that was taken away from the beginning of the creation of the former Socialist state, yes, by nationalization and I think it would be okay for the state to return it to the real owners, but I also don't think it can be restored property by the state, by other people's property, it was the property of a clinical hospital, and at the same time not to compensate for such damages, because it certainly ends up at the expense of the residents of Slavonia and Baranja, or at the expense of patients who otherwise sought help in the area of that hospital. I think it was promised at that time and signed to damage the Clinical Hospital Osijek with 20 million kuna. This has not been done to date, and this amendment I think could pay off some kind of first war, that would be an increase of 10 million kuna, and for these next 10 we'll agree then on the next budget. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69998	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The ministry of justice, MPs Mato Gavran and Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u69999	The government does not accept the amendment for the reason that the Ministry of Justice is planning a project to equip and adapt the County Court in Slavonski Brod in 2007.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u70000	Representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u70001	Thank you very much. Well, I didn't expect Mr. Minister to have this amendment as well as the next one to have a different fate than the previous one. I agree with my colleague, Drmic, and I dare say that by looking from here from Mark's square, dark in Slavonia, it already begins in Sesvedi. This government is saying one thing, the other I mean, and the third one is working. Mr. Minister, I'll remind you that you were on September 22nd in Slavonski Brod when it... to support the amendments, not to exclude me. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] Everything... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u70002	You guys get on.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u70003	I'm on, but they shut me down all the time. So, at the September 22nd session in Slavonski Brod, the government promised to do everything necessary to resuscitate the County Court in Slavonski Brod and the next amendment to the municipal court and build a new police administration building, but all this remains only a promise. When it comes to the County Court, I want to remind you, Mr. Minister, you probably don't know, neither is your portfolio. This building was bought by the government two years ago, it's an old building, it's necessary to resuscitate the roof because it's sneezing, the judges of the maltene judgment are making it under umbrellas, and they have to buy from their own money both chairs and everything else. I ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u70004	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 47th MPs Mato Gavran and Mato Arlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u70005	The government does not accept that the adaptation and equipment of the business space for the Municipal Court in Slavonski Brod is foreseen for the budget... [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u70006	Representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u70007	Okay, I hope that next year when we discuss this or some other conference, we won't have to ask again for an amendment to adapt and edit the municipal court of Slavonski Brod. Namely, Mr. Ministers in this building where four judicial bodies are located not only is there an obvious lack of space but necessary procedures are essential to ensure that this court can function at all. I note that a building permit has been issued for the construction of one part of this building but there is no money for the realisation of this building. Furthermore, international support provides information equipment but which cannot be put into operation because existing installations are not sufficient or do not provide security for such equipment to be put into operation. I ask you once again, these are the minimum means for this court to get the most essential conditions for life and work by the end of the year. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u70008	Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment to the 48th Amendment of Mrsic, Mrsic, Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u70009	The government does not accept because the construction of a palace of justice for judicial authorities in Koprivnica is not accepted because it is too small for the realization of the investment in question.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u70010	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u70011	Dear Minister, if you had told us in the beginning that the government would not accept any amendment, you would have deprived us of all the uncertainty that this Hall is ruling. But if 2 million kunas were too little, the government could propose with its amendment a sufficient amount to build a palace of justice. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u70012	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 49. Representatives Vladimir Šišljagić, Branimir Glavas and Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u70013	The government does not accept for the ongoing recovery of the flooded section of the municipal and county court building in Osijek amounting to a million and 484 thousand kuna and 700 kuna, which are financed from the current reserve of the state budget, which is a far greater amount than you propose by the amendment. And further works on the County Court building in Osijek are planned in 2007.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u70014	Representative Ivan Drmić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u70015	I think you've taken a little bit of this little piece of my amendment. And this consequence of these firing pipes is the direct consequence of the war, so 15 years ago, that building, that court got a lot of grenades, and just over the last 15 years, it didn't seem like any of those damages were resolved, and it was normally going down, the pipes went down, the electrical installations went down, and today this building is in a much worse shape than five or ten years ago. I'm appealing that even now you single out some kind of means to finally get rid of those war damages that have been going on for 15 years, it's funny to me that today we're even talking about it after 15 years. Because if you don't do it for a year, you'll have a pipe shot, next year there'll be something with electrical installations, and then a sewer. It's just that this way the fire can't be extinguished. I think Osijek and the employees of the county court deserve to release the bag and resuscitate the building as it has been rescheduled in other cities in the territory of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u70016	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. And 50th Amendment of Representatives Vladimir Šišljagić, Branimir Glavas and Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u70017	The government does not accept for the reason that the Regional Development Fund's Regional Development Fund has called for a tender in which the counties can report projects. Among other things, the County of Osijek-Baranja reported the project, one part of these projects was adopted and accepted by the Regional Development Fund. Therefore, the proposed project is contrary to the Fund's rules of procedure because projects cannot be accepted without a published tender. Since the tender has been announced by the county has run for projects, one large part of these projects has been accepted. Therefore, the amendment cannot be accepted for reasons of lack of sufficient resources to open a new tender.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u70018	Representative Ivan Drmić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u70019	I don't accept your explanation. I'm even very funny, Mr. Minister. At least one Regional Development Fund when it was established and announced should have been a pompously announced fund to ensure a certain regional, balanced regional development of the region in the Republic of Croatia. However, here is today my county has fallen to 2 million 893 thousand kuna. I don't know what can be done with that money especially because last year there was something under 5 million kuna, so it was kind of normal for me to make that amount of war given the cash's movements, to increase the state budget, but it was roughly halved. I think it's unfair. There, and the least you can do is accept this... [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u70020	I am voting on this amendment. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on this amendment. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u70025	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. In the amendments and additions to the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget, the Government proposes that since it adopted guidelines for a public private partnership, since several units of local self-government have already started these projects in Croatia and since a project of public and private partnership creates long-term commitments at 25 or 30 years, we believe that the Budget Implementation Act should be regulated to which units local self-government units of local self-government can create public private partnership obligations. If this is not settled by the Law on Budget Implementation, if the Ministry of Finance does not establish a register of created obligations of units of local self-government, we will come to the conclusion that some local sheriffs will create such obligations that they will not be able to pay tomorrow and then someone else will be guilty. I say it clearly and openly from the experience she had and the past government, so one year there was no possibility of ever borrowing units of local self-government from the past years and it should be installed in the budget. We put one very high rate here, that's 35%. We are aware that around the public private partnership of some local self-government units that have weaker fiscal capacity and fiscal power will have to get help from the state budget, it could create a commitment and this story of permission, of creating this for the future. We also propose a reduction due to the debt of 486 million kuna due to the deficit reduction, and since this year a series of sub-accounts have been abolished that have so far been proposed to include the revenues of the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare in the state budget, it is also unnecessary to prescribe the withdrawal from the obligation to pay off dedicated revenues and social care institutions and we also propose that if one let's say the technical thing, unless privatisation revenues are realised that the government can be charged with not implementing the legal provision and the last amending budget that I want to say publicly in my final statement. All governments have so far had the possibility of redistributing the budget, it is not the modality of this government, it is because our budget is at the fourth level and we cannot say that the Government of Ivo Sanader has done it, it is good that this trend of redistribution is being reduced, it says that both in ministries and in budget users, but simply without that institution it is impossible to complete the budget. In the end, I am speaking because the state budget of the Republic of Croatia is at the fourth level. I repeat, that's what the government had and past, and it wasn't this government that introduced it, and let's not take it for the one thing that it was. Look, people, in the 2003 budget, he redistributed three and a half billion kunas, three and a half billion kunas under this legal provision. The 2004 budget has been redistributed by this provision of 3 billion and 200 million kuna, and in the 2005 budget, 700 million kuna. So, I simply know that there will be a debate first of all from my colleague Zgrebec that it was a change before the Parliament, etc., but that's what I said in my final account and about the budget, let's not one thing while we had the opportunity to decide then was good and okay, and when someone else comes to power the same thing is called that it's not correct and that's what political, which is not good, so I tell this amending budget and budget law we predict and the possibility of redistribution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u70026	Thank you. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Nothing. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. For the SDP club, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u70027	Mr. President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'm glad my colleague Shuker knows what I'm going to talk about because I've been saying it all three years in a row and it's not true that the governments used to do it. By 2004, there was no such possibility, within the same positions it could be redistributed by up to 5%. That's what the Budget Act adopted also states today. We will not accept amendments and additions to the Law on the implementation of the State budget for 2006. Such a law, which lasts for one financial year, actually prescribes a technique for the implementation of the state budget, and it is logical if we do not vote in favour of the budget and neither does the budget rebalance, that we do not vote on a law like this which is, to repeat the technique of implementing the budget. I'm going to take a broader look at Article 7, and my colleagues are going to talk about other changes in the debate. I would only say that in Article 3 which regulates borrowing, i.e. the annual amount of compensation for projects carried out through a public private partnership, and where it calls for guidelines that are likely to be discussed tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. I would just like to warn you that by the acts of the Parliament, the Parliament cannot bring, or by the Rules of Procedure, it cannot provide guidance. Article 116 states that, on the basis of the rights and powers laid down by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and these Rules of Procedure, the Parliament shall adopt the Constitution, the laws, the state budget, the decisions, the declarations, the resolutions, the charters, the recommendations and the conclusions and gives credible interpretations of the law. It doesn't say that he's bringing guidelines anywhere, so the government should take care of that. And now very briefly to say about Article 7 which actually introduces a new article 40a that has been repeated for the third year. I'll just warn on a few provisions of the Constitution and the Budget Act. This Regulation shall enter The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia says that the Croatian Parliament brings the state budget and the Croatian Parliament does not have the right to refuse to adopt the state budget and to transfer such power to the Government and we believe that this is also a matter of constitutionality or unconstitution if such a provision is adopted in the Law on the implementation of the budget. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The budget law says the budget is passed by a budget for the financial year corresponding to the calendar year before the start of the year for which it applies. And Article 30(5) says that the government sets out the draft budget and consolidated budget and delivers it to the Parliament for adoption by 15 November of the current year. Therefore, these two articles of the Budget Act regulate the government's powers to propose a budget and to the Parliament to adopt it. In accordance with Article 32(2), amending and supplementing the budgets shall be implemented in accordance with the procedure for the adoption of the budget. In these three years, we actually bring one rebalancing with the budget and later we leave it to the government to redistribute this time, unlike the previous years, the entire budget. See what article 40a reads. In point 1. The government will decide on a proposal from the ministry to redistribute funds for operating expenditure. The operating expenditure on budget rebalancing will amount to 96 billion kuna 067 million. It is also said to purchase non-financial assets within the budget of the planned expenditure funds and they are rebalanced 2 billion, 274 million kuna. In other words, in the 100% amount, the government can redistribute the state budget. How did she do it last year? In the 12th month alone, we had four or five redistributions, and then, as the government now proposes, it was up to the Parliament to notify of such redistribution within 15 days. The government didn't do it unless it thought that the publication in the National Journal was actually reporting to the Parliament rather than just the public. For these reasons, we will not accept amendments and additions to the Budgetary Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u70028	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, distinguished representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u70029	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I'll tell you about a few provisions of the Law amending the State Budget Act. The first thing I'm going to say about this is to reduce the ability of units of local self-government. So, according to our laws, which are traditionally repeated in the Croatian Parliament, units of local self-government must be committed to a cumulative amount of 2% of all income of local self-government units of all local self-government units in the past year. I do not think that this criterion is in itself enough to enable the borrowing of units of local self-government in the right way and to have this borrowing under the control of the central government. I understand that in this sense the government should have insight, that it can limit that, but I mean the limit with this lump sum of 2% is absolutely illogical, because some units of local self-government can be in debt, meet the 2% quota and then other units of local self-government that have the conditions of borrowing cannot therefore become in debt in that year. This is, in my opinion, quite primitive, insufficient provision, and that provision should be complemented, primitive in the sense that it is simple and not in the sense that it is primitive in the sense of conduct, but simple. It should be a little more differentiated, for example, why not set some other criteria there, and then the borrowing would be clearer, such as the overall responsibility of local self-government units. This is the relevant information on the total responsibility of local self-government units at that time. As the state here is budgeted in the Article of the Law on Budgetary Implementation in Article 25, which states that sovereign debt can be 51% of gross national product, which is somewhere around 100% of the Republic of Croatia's budget. It would be logical to have and based on it to limit the task of units of local self-government. Similarly, we have in this law that the annual amount of compensation for this project of the public private partnership unit of local self-government can be up to 30% of the budget from the previous year reduced for capital revenue and this is also a much more logical approach than this to make it possible for all units of local self-government to determine 2% and, of course, it is very important and total responsibility of some unit of local self-government. I don't know if the ministry takes those criteria into account in its implementation procedures. But if we put this 2 percent criterion into law then it would certainly be good to put these two criteria on what the total responsibility of all units of local self-government is so that it is not being exceeded and what is the total responsibility of the unit of local self-government that has been in debt for the past ten years has actually been heavy burdens but that is not the criterion here for making such a decision. And that bad procedure is getting worse here right now. These amendments to the law all what was approved last year until 31 December 2005 and not used are taken into account by the limit this year and thus the 2% de facto decrease further. And that, in my opinion, is one inert legislative, legislative, which in my opinion is very bad, and it would be much more logical for these criteria to be differentiated so that units of local self-government can be entrusted independently to other units of local self-government than in the overall task of all, especially the task of that same unit of local self-government. And therefore, this provision of the law is, in the opinion of the HNS Representatives Club, bad and we only drag it through our budget law year after year, and in this change, we radicalise it in some way because I repeat, we include what was last year, and the ability of units of local self-government in 2006 will be even less than it was in previous years. And the second question I would like to talk about is this question which Mrs Zgrebec spoke about, and that is also the question of Article 40a which did not exist in the basic law on the implementation of the state budget, but, as last year, it now includes itself in this law, which means that, in fact, it follows the same procedure that was in 2004 and 2005. We had last week's budget for 2005. In that budget that budget, it's called a budget and it's not actually a budget. The budget is only the document adopted by the Croatian Parliament. We didn't have a basic budget that the Croatian Parliament brought in at all. We could not compare the implementation of the budget with the budget set by the Croatian Parliament in July 2005. You couldn't even compare the final consumption at individual breaks with that document adopted by the Croatian Parliament and only the Croatian Parliament can bring in the Dražni budget. The government has the power to change the budget, of course, can be discussed. Some powers I think should exist of these types, but that without any restrictions the government can completely change the state budget is absolutely not good, and it is even worse and it did not happen in the Croatian Parliament until the implementation of the 2004 budget it was the first time that we had ever happened to get a budget that was not actually the budget adopted by the Croatian Parliament. If the government executed that so-called. technical rebalancing and this has been reported by the Croatian Parliament, I am talking about the 2005 budget, the Government reported on 25 December the Croatian Parliament that the redistribution of funds has been made. The Croatian Parliament takes note of this decision, then it should certainly take into account the implementation of the State budget other than these rebalanced elements of the budget, or the changes that the Government had had to be also a fundamental state budget adopted by the Croatian Parliament. This is how the question of legality can be asked, and the constitutionality of it can be freely claimed that the Croatian Parliament has not adopted the 2004 budget or the 2005 budget. Because what we adopted was not the state budget but was the budget that the Government of the Republic of Croatia was based on this, these provisions of Article 40 and rebalanced without having actually had the right information about which was the basic state budget. I think that if it is already going with this power, I think it should be restricted, up to 5% as it was during the term of office of the former government and not without any restrictions, but when it is put into effect then in the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of any year, so this time in 2006 or for the implementation of the 2006 budget, a basic state budget adopted by the Croatian Parliament should certainly be indicated, because it is only the state budget, not the documents adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the meantime. So here are the reasons why we think it's not a good change to this law, and that's why the club of the representatives of the CNS will be against the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u70030	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u70031	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, I will refer to two provisions. One is the repetition of something that is therefore equal to the units of local self-government in relation to the state. I would totally agree with what my colleague Radosh was saying, and that would really be great if that were the case. If it can't already be, then I don't see any reason that local self-government units don't have at least the same possibility for a deficit as the state does. So why, now that we've reduced the state from 3.3 to 3.0, let's not allow local self-government units to be 3%. I think it would be very correct for local self-government units. It's about minimum funds. So it's a few, maybe 100 million kunas, but that would allow several municipalities or a few smaller cities to realise development projects and meet the needs of citizens in these cities. So now that we can't go so we don't limit further what the Law on Local Self-Government has been made possible, which is to owe local self-government units up to 20%, is it? We see here that the state can be owed up to 100%, right? So local self-government units can be owed up to 20% of the budget, up to 20% of the budget. Therefore, I do not see any reason why we do not really allow this low percentage that local self-government units have and would have no significant impact on the general government deficit at the end until we enter the European Monetary Union, we can afford 0.1% of how much these local self-government units would affect 0.1% of the general government deficit. So it wouldn't be a general government deficit of 3,00 but it would be 3,01. So I really don't see any reason not to make that gesture, that gesture to the units of local self-government. What I think is essential and what should certainly change is Article 3. Article 3 disagrees with what the government adopted and what the working group did and the prime ministers presented the government at a meeting with mayors and mayors. So that's where we discussed the guidelines for a public-private partnership. We were on the task force, I was a member of this task force for a long time to discuss these restrictions, control mechanisms and everything else, and this is completely different from the content and essence of what the working group wrote in the guidelines. The task force said in the guidelines that it would be 35%, and we fully agree, however, that the whole verification process would be done by the government. That's what it says in the materials, and that's what the agency is going to do in two, on two occasions. First, the agency will make a preliminary determination of whether it is a public-private partnership or whether the public partner who goes into the construction of a public facility has thus transferred enough risk to a private partner, i.e. a public-private partnership. Second, when requesting an opinion from the Agency, the total amount of the costs incurred for the implementation of the contract, the total amount of the costs incurred for the implementation of the contract by individual years and the allocation of the risk associated with the implementation of the project must therefore be delivered. The Agency is then required to deliver an opinion within 30 days on whether or not there is sufficient fiscal capacity within this 35 % or not. And it is therefore agreed that these 35% are reduced by the capital revenues of one of those budget preceding financial years. Here is the introduction of something that is completely new and that is completely different from the spirit of what the working group wrote, and the prime minister presented at that meeting in the government. So it is introduced not to control the Ministry of Finance but that the Ministry of Finance must give prior consent. The point of the guideline is that it is the agency established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The point is that this agreement must be given within a certain time limit. Here, even the ministry's agreement does not assume an obligation within which the deadline will give its consent, so it can happen as it is now with the obligation not to receive any papers from the Ministry of Finance for a year whether or not they will receive approval. Furthermore, the spirit of guidelines gives rise to the second item that I consider to be, therefore, below the basic 35 % of the budget. So the decentralised funds must be in it, we're on the task force, I'm talking about what was on the task force, what were the guidelines and what the government adopted. No, no, Minister, we can, you can defend the budget law here. I am talking about a document established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, a document presented to the mayors and mayors. And I was a member of that committee and we discussed it. I'm talking about the content and essence of these guidelines, not what was done afterwards. And finally, the example at the press said that it would be 35% and that it wouldn't be there after some further story, right? Therefore, the decentralised funds are only defined as such in point 9(3), if used, that it will then need to agree with the RES to redistribute the criteria of minimum standards for this. So decentralised funds are used among other things for investment and investment maintenance. Then how are we gonna get that out of the budget and it's not gonna be the basis for JPP. Then we could say that only the original tax revenues of the local self-government unit are the basis for the JPP. Then there can be neither municipal compensation nor municipal contribution, nor toll compensation because these are all means of purpose. But the meaning of the guidelines isn't like that. This Law on the implementation of the State Budget essentially changes guidelines, the essence of guidelines written by the Working Group and adopted by the Government. Finally, the purpose of the JPP is to transfer the risk to a private partner. So all these restrictions don't make sense. I think paragraph 25 should certainly be deleted because decentralised funds must be in this because decentralised funds and are intended to achieve a minimum standard in this area of education, health care, social care, and JPP facilities will be built for this. Well, you can't take it off the side now so it's not in the accounting section, and on the other hand, you're going to finance it out of this. And thirdly, I don't think it's necessary to redefine what capital revenues are, therefore, the sale of non-financial assets, the receipts from the sale of securities. Well, that's probably the budget law. Why are we gonna put that back here? I think the receipts from the sale of securities and receipts from the sale of shares in the principal should be part of the budget. Because that's how some local self-government units plan it. So, I'd like to ask you to keep the State Budget Act in line with the guidelines. They have not yet been adopted here in Parliament, perhaps they should not be called guidelines but recommendations or conclusions on guidelines, that is technical detail, but they have been adopted by the government, they are presented to the mayors and mayors and I ask you not to change the essence of the guidelines of the Law on the implementation of the state budget. And here you are doing this. The notion that someone will bring the state into bankruptcy because they will go beyond these limits, so that all units of local self-government can take advantage of a maximum of 35% of the JPP is 3 and a half billion. And we're talking about the government being able to borrow up to 100 billion, or this year they're going to be able to raise a billion loan of 12, 13 billion. Therefore, there is no concern that units of local self-government will compromise the financial stability of the state, even if it goes to the maximum. So if we all went to 35% and no one's going because it can't work with 35 plus 20, it would be three and a half billion. Well, that's what we're talking about with money. Let us, therefore, not, now, to the Law on the implementation of the state budget, derogate the full meaning of the JPP. Only Slovakia in Europe has such a restriction that the Ministry of Finance must give consent to the JPP, only Slovakia. Will we then make peace with Slovakia, or will we look to other countries to which we wish to join? How come 24 countries do not have that restriction, only in Europe will Slovakia and Croatia. Let's let it go, let's finally trust this local self-government for once. Well, anyway, some of us are either going to either go back to the mayor and the mayor, right? And another comment only on Article 40, respectively. I don't think that's good, and I also have an observation that the government is once again taking on a right that is not ready to give to anyone else, right? I think if one budget has some right to all budgets have the same rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u70032	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative, Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u70033	My colleague Mršić said what I was talking about was not possible. It's actually very simple to just have the will to do it. Ideally speaking, I don't think the criteria for borrowing units of local self-government and state should be different. At the level of units of local self-government and state level, the same level of financial responsibility should exist. We are fighting and trying to install such a system of public administration that the same responsibility will be placed in, and then the criteria will be equal. It is not logical that achieving a deficit framework, the state deficit falls on the back of units of local self-government. This burden must be distributed in the same way. We fight to build such a system. So it's nothing more complicated than making decisions like that. Let's say the decision that Mršić tells us that this limit from 2% per year to 3% or 4%, to limit the amount of local self-government unit's debt to 50%, 51% as in the case of the state, and that the limits of all local self-government units' duties are also set to 30, 40 or 50%, that decision is very simple to make. Local self-government units will and should be equally responsible and there is no danger that units of local self-government would question state finances with their irresponsible behaviour. So this system is quite possible only for this to have political will, not to overturn the burden of achieving the state deficit limit criteria across the back of units of local self-government. That doesn't make sense. Both have the same assignments, or equal responsibility. Both tasks and central states and local self-government are important, important for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It would therefore be logical to have the same responsibility and, of course, have the same criteria when it comes to planning their jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u70034	Replica reply, Honorable representative Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u70035	I didn't say it was impossible theoretically like you said. I said that at this point it is impossible to define the government's policy objectives and the ruling majority's policies to minimise deficits. So I was talking about that then if that's already the case, it's a solidarity to treat the state budget against the budget of the units of local self-government, but we can't even treat local self-government units more restrictively than the state budget, can we? So that's one thing. And secondly, no initiative has come to Parliament yet to increase this 20% limit on the possibility of borrowing units of local self-government. It's some kind of 93-year-old deal that's obviously working like that. The problem is that those who meet the requirements of the Law on Local Self-Government and the financing of units of local self-government cannot exercise their right to do so and this violates the constitutional right of citizens to local self-government because their unit of local self-government cannot meet the needs of citizens in such a way as the Finance Act provides for up to 20% in debt. So that's what it is. Therefore, I would not want to violate the government's policy of minimising deficits, but I think it is incorrect for local self-government units to say to themselves that they can have a deficit of 3.5% and that local self-government units can participate in their own 2 with 0.1, 0.2% of the general government deficit. So if we can work this out, I'd like to get some solidarity.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u70036	Thank you. Final Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u70037	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A few years ago, I was mayor and parliamentary counsel. It was in 2003, election year, budget law, local self-government units must not be charged with lip, and then my colleague Rados didn't cry this much over the local self-government unit. Not even a bite. Not even a bite. At the departure of budget rebalancing and execution, the government allowed several units of local self-government to be in charge by amending the Budget Implementation Act in the 10th month. As for JPP and 35%. One of the decentralised funds is to count the base on which 35% is calculated and the other is the possibility of using these decentralised funds to finance the JPP, and we were on the task force talking about this exactly the other. However, Mr. Mršić, you probably don't know that both by law and by the Constitution, the Ministry of Finance is responsible for the conduct of fiscal and economic policy, as a whole. Therefore, it cannot possibly be possible for the Ministry of Finance to delegate powers to some agency that it makes decisions on whether someone meets the conditions or does not meet the conditions for a public private partnership. I have warned both times in a public private partnership, so clear from the position of the finance minister, which means when allowed to create obligations without any control. These are not obligations for a year, these are obligations for 25 and 30 years. But I say what I said and when I talk about budget rebalancing. It's nice when I'm in power to do what I want, and when you're in power, that's not good. And as for the redistribution of funds, I mean, it really doesn't make sense, that last year when the 2004 budget was carried out there were hard words, counterfeits, etc. That's what the last government had. Look at the state's report, look at the National Audit report, you can say whatever you want. You don't even deny what you did then so we can discuss the elements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u70038	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, Honorary Captain Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u70039	The finance minister said he couldn't transfer the Treasury to another authority to grant approval or consent. That's incorrect. As far as local self-government units are concerned, since the Constitution defines that local self-government units have their own incomes and expenditures. ... The Constitution, I'm talking about the Constitution. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, not Minister Shuker. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I didn't confuse the concepts. No, I can't have local self-government units having mom and dad in the government. The local self-government units have a representative body, they have their mayors, they have the Law on Local Self-Government, the Finance Act, so it says 20% that it can be borrowed and then Dad says if you can't. The law says that we have our own hands on this, the JPP is not an obligation, the JPP is the cost as units of local self-government can create all long-term costs without the consent of the Ministry of Finance, then I can do it here with this. But we have agreed on the government's commission that the government will establish an agency that will run the PPP contract register, which will give an opinion and that agency has an obligation to give that opinion within a certain period. I'm afraid here we won't be in a position like borrowing to not get consent for a whole year.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u70040	It's not time, but don't argue under the institute of correcting an incorrect quote. Thank you. With this I conclude...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u70041	You don't understand anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u70042	I'm closing up. Just a second, please. This concludes the debate on the 10th item of the agenda. Continuation is tomorrow at 3 p.m. with...... Excuse me, at 9.30 – Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 418. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u70043	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, 20% of the funds were spent on this item in the first five months of this year. Rural development as a measure with which we can only count in the future as the main aid to rural space. Unfortunately, I have to conclude, and I would say that you have mentioned the projects too, the programs in that segment are not working, and unfortunately we have to say that, as far as the percentage of direct payments relative to rural development, indirect payments in that section are somewhere in us 95 versus 5. You know well that here in Europe, in the European Union 60% is almost for rural development and 40% for direct payments. So we're going to have to develop these measures, but if we've spent only 20% of our resources now, if we know that the projects aren't still working and nothing's going to happen in that part. I think you yourself are aware that this whole part of where we have great space to help people stay in the country, that people don't have to live directly from agricultural production, but that indirect measures help them to have those in the country I would say one decent life to help them in infrastructure, to help them maintain those cultural customs that I believe we're all proud of with our village when we see that this village has succeeded in almost a century and culture, and I would say and customs, but they can't if we don't support them in that part. That's why I'm asking you to vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u70044	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006. The amendments were submitted by HSP Representatives' Club and MP Zvonimir Mršić. HSP rep club. Amendment 1. Here you go, Minister. There's only one amendment to the club of HSP representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u70046	The government does not accept the amendment for the reason that the guidelines set a public-private partnership. Here are some nomotechnical changes that the government cannot accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u70047	The vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 11 for. 18 abstentions. 53 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. The amendment of the representative of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u70048	The government does not accept for the reason that MP Mršić suggests that restrictions be lifted on local self-government units regarding the possibility of borrowing. Given that the 50 largest units of local self-government are in a consolidated general government balance sheet, the normal thing is that, and some bad experience from the past, they say the possibility of borrowing units of local self-government should be controlled by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Finance. In the end, let us remember that in 2003, local self-government units could not be in charge at all. Therefore the proposed restriction we consider 20% is something optimal as to how many units of local self-government along with these additional amendments around the public private partnership can be set aside for borrowing and to repay... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u70049	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u70050	This isn't about me ending 20%. I have abolished here, or I suggest that the provision be deleted so that 2% can be charged to total income from last year. Not 20%. So I suggest that the restriction prescribed by the Law on Local Self-Government remain because I consider it a violation of the autonomy of local self-government if the Law implementing the state budget prescribes additional restrictions on what has been prescribed by the Law on Local Self-Government. It's not true that in 2003 he couldn't be in charge at all. It was not possible to apply to the rebalancing of the 2003 budget. So half a year didn't, and half a year could be owed, get consent to the post. And then it was 3%. Not 2% as incorporated into the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget in 2006, because not only 2% are introduced here, but additional restrictions are also introduced to include all the consents that were given in the last year. So they were treated as a deficit last year. That they are the same in this year. And if only 50 of the largest units of local self-government are consolidated, then give the remaining 470 to be owed up to 20% since they do not enter the consolidated balance sheet. I mean, there's no reason for us to impose a limit that doesn't have... /The speaker's off. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u70051	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 2 Well, you have nothing to do because we vote manually on the amendments. [[The intruders don't understand.]] Amendment to the 2nd Representative of Zvonimir Mrsic?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u70052	The government does not accept the reason why we believe that the register of creating obligations of local self-government units based on a public private partnership must be conducted in the Ministry of Finance. We believe that the Ministry of Finance, given that it is a long-term commitment that needs to be in control of it, and we consider it to be the one that will control the projects and give consent to them. However, no single unit of local self-government can be a public private partnership project unless it has the consent of the Ministry of Finance for the reason that the Ministry of Finance has complete records of the established obligations of local self-government units because it would not happen that the local self-government unit assumes obligations greater than it is able to return to the future. I repeat, it is about projects that have a period of sustainability of 25 to 30 years. Therefore, there should be a high-quality fiscal projection on the fiscal capabilities of local self-government units. One such registry can exist exclusively in the Ministry of Finance and it is logical that without the consent of the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Croatia no unit of local self-government can enter the project of a public private partnership. It's a downsizing in the next 25 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u70053	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u70054	So I will repeat that it is completely contrary to the guidelines adopted on Friday here in the Parliament. When we wrote the guidelines, we said it would be the agency. Moreover, then, my colleague Cacic and I proposed that the Agency be placed within the Ministry of Finance. The prime minister also said the government's vice-president would not, but would do so at the current office at the investment-enhancing agency. So we don't mind keeping a register in the ministry, the agency being placed at the Ministry of Finance and the agency inside the Ministry of Finance doing what it says in the guidelines. And the guidelines said that this fiscal capacity would be checked by the agency, giving an opinion within 30 days. The meaning of the guidelines is fully derivated here because something completely new is being introduced which has not been said in the guidelines, which the prime minister did not say or was agreed there, and that is to be sought in addition to what an agency is now going to do, and there is no point in the existence of the agency. If consent is sought from the Ministry of Finance and if the Ministry of Finance does not have any time limit for granting that consent. One... It'll take a while if you don't shut me down, and if you're treated in a whole new way for capital revenues. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] So, I suggest that capital revenues be treated as it says in the guidelines and as it says in the Budget Law, not as it says in the Budget Implementation Act. Once again, the Law on Budgeting is a derivative which has been defined by some other views and ministers this is completely contrary to what is set out in the guidelines and which is agreed at a meeting of the government and mayors and mayors. So you're completely delegating the meaning of a public private partnership. Public private partnership is not borrowing. Public private partnership is a cost for which no one else needs the consent of the Ministry of Finance. You're making a big mistake and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-05-0.u70055	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am now voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 73 votes in favour, one abstention and 26 against was passed, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006 in the text proposed by the Government.
