ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u53506	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening a session of the Croatian Parliament to be addressed by the President of the European Commission, Mr Jose Manuel Durao Barroso. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all. Let me particularly welcome Mr Jose Manuel Durao Barroso, President of the European Commission. Mr Olli Rehn, member of the European Commission and Commissioner for Enlargement and members of the European Union delegation. [[Applause.]] I welcome Mr. Stjepan Mesic, President of the Republic of Croatia. [[Applause.]] Mr Ivo Sanader, Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Vice President and members of the Government. [[Applause.]] I welcome you diplomatically to the head of an appointed assembly, His Excellency Monsignor Francisco Javier Lozano. [[Applause.]] It is our special honor that our Parliament will be addressed by the President of the European Commission, Mr Jose Manuel Durao Barroso, and I ask him to address the Croatian Parliament. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u53507	Mr. Chairman, Mr. President, honourable Members of Parliament, Excellency, Mr. Ambassador, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, thank you President Mesic, Prime Minister Sanader, for being present on this occasion. It is a great honor for me to address the direct representatives of the Croatian people here in the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia. The time is perfect because the relationship between the European Union and Croatia has reached a new stage. Our partnership has now accelerated, accession negotiations are in motion and Croatia is progressing towards the adoption of European laws, the European legislator. In other words, the job really started. Since negotiations are under way, there is no doubt about our common objective, and this goal is Croatia's full membership in the European Union. Negotiations could have started because Croatia has achieved full co-operation with the Hague court and I am glad that the European Union could keep its promise to Croatia to start negotiations after all conditions have been met. [[Applause.]] Now further progress is in your hands and negotiations will progress towards Croatia's ability to meet all membership conditions. The conditions for membership are clear, there is a need for progress as regards Copenhagen... the criteria. [[The translator doesn't understand.]] It is also within the framework of the Association and Cooperation Agreement. This means co-operation with the Hague Court and progress on good regional co-operation. The enlargement under European Union rules should continue in accordance with European rules. The ability to implement the rules should be strengthened. These are no arbitrary requirements, they maintain the firm principles the country wants to show under a satisfactory condition. Any country that is determined, which wants to give prosperity, stability, stability to its citizens wants to adopt. And the role of your Parliament, this Parliament is crucial and you have an important role to play,... a series of issues that are part of the integration process. [[The translator doesn't understand.]] From the political and economic reforms needed until the end of 35 chapters. Once the pace of the process speeds up the role of the Croatian Parliament will increase further. As regards the fifth extension, our experience shows how important it is that candidate countries have full participation in each other as well as a national consensus on European integration. I am convinced that this Parliament, including the National Committee for the Monitoring of EU Accession Talks, as well as the Committee on European Integration, therefore play their part. It is also important that representatives of people understand what it is and explain to them why it is important and that it is in the interest of Croats. ... will cover a series of questions that sometimes will... [[The translator doesn't understand.]] Fear or doubt, whether real or imagined. [[The translator doesn't understand.]] It is therefore important that we resolve this concern by emphasising certain issues. Let me give you one example. As for the free movement of capital, we have a question of buying real estate. You are blessed with one of the most beautiful countries in Europe and everyone knows it well. So I can understand how easy it is to imagine a huge number of citizens of the European Union who are running and want to buy a country with your... [[Applause.]] But in reality millions and millions of tourists are coming to Croatia right now. [[The translator doesn't understand.]] I've read the numbers and they're very impressive all the way from my country, but only a relatively small number actually buys property here. This has been happening for several years, now most citizens of the European Union have been able to buy property in Croatia and when we see the situation of the current members of the European Union that have the same very beautiful places, we see that there was actually no reason to fear, in fact very much the opposite, if some people can't get out of Croatia, then it's a Croatian country. Some people are also concerned about the chapter on competition policy, it will almost be on the negotiating table, frankly speaking I was surprised when I discovered that Croatia spent a greater percentage of its national wealth on state support than any other European country. According to the rules on competition, the Commission does not prohibit state aid, but provides a framework for a more effective allocation of that money, so sound and fair competition is encouraged, and ultimately taxpayers do not want to use their money to give a unfair advantage to one company among other things, they want resources to be effectively targeted, to increase the wealth of more jobs and thus serve market competition rules and, again, Croatia has obligations in this area under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. I think we should do more to meet these existing obligations. Another chapter that will soon be on, in the negotiations is public procurement. Here's the frame... requires a more efficient use of resources. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The crucial rules on good supply are if citizens want to make good use of their money and other chapters in the negotiations that will pose specific challenges and that you have chosen to resolve them. But let us be honest and completely transparent, no one has said that accession negotiations will be easy, this is a process that all the countries that have approached, and I can also tell you about the experience of all the countries had to go through this process and have passed. They have passed because in their long-term interest and response to the concrete interests of citizens of each country and now we have experience of accessioning Portugal, Spain, Greece to the European Union or this particular enlargement and all countries have been satisfied with the results of accession negotiations and can now want concrete results not only in terms of national interest as some abstract reality but in concrete results for citizens and improves the quality of life of citizens of the European Union Member States. Only with the continued intensive work of state authorities to deny legislation to build administrative capacity and implement will all negotiations be able to go at a good pace. The first step is to adopt the quality of legislation, good national cloning to make sure that national resources are available on time... The candidate countries sometimes surprise the level of review during the negotiations, but it is natural, as you approach the European Union and we draw closer to you means that the Commission will continue to monitor and report Croatia's progress towards membership, this monitoring was the formal competences of the Commission under the agreement of the European Union and today we heard what President Mesic, so he underlined our role. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, we in the Commission have the task of helping you in this process when we say difficulties, when we explain the challenging types of negotiations, I mean here to help you on the way to membership if that is what the country and the citizens of Croatia want. As Croatia focuses more and more on... According to Aquis, according to the acquis, it's crucial to look at it, it's crucial... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] open issues under political criteria, minority rights, refugee returns, impartial punishment... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] for war crimes, freedom of the media, and those issues which, therefore, all sectors such as the Rights Fund... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] both the public sector and the fight against corruption, in particular the removal of discrimination and the creation of an atmosphere that more accepts the minority, access obligations for every society that is determined to build a stable advanced future for all citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Progress in these areas will make Croatia a leading example for the entire region, something that will make it easier to ratify the future accession contract... European parliaments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The European Union can function properly when the rule of law is applied and therefore demand further progress from the Croatian Union,... Public administration and the fight against corruption, it is crucial, it is very important, above all, to improve the everyday life of citizens, their lives and to ensure that justice prevails,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They are also necessary if Croatia wishes to benefit fully from the European Union's policy as a Member State and the relevant law of the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Lacks in this area can have an impact on the economic sector, prevent foreign investment and enforcement from different and religious rights. Croatia must consolidate its macroeconomic standard, it must prepare for competitive pressures in the Union, but Croatia has already achieved much. Its macroeconomic policies contributed to relatively low inflation, stable bankruptcy and significantly decreased current account deficits and exchanges. Here are the foundations for further construction. I know that in Croatia there has been a certain negative reaction to the idea of a regional... trade, but the experience of the European Union shows that this brings great benefits. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatia can benefit from this, attract investment, ensure greater access or greater markets for Croatian goods, increase stability in the region and I want to underline this. Regional integration is not a substitute for accession but is a fundamental part of European integration, it has nothing to do with the past, but it is actually about the future. Let me conclude, I'll simply say that the start of accession negotiations is often an approach for public gathering to count on... I sincerely hope that Croatia will take advantage of this opportunity after my talks with Prime Minister Sanader, President Mesic, after some of the other talks I have held I truly believe that this will happen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I appreciate your ambition to make rapid progress in the negotiations, but if you want to succeed, you must not underestimate the scope of the work you need to do. Let me stress the importance that all political parties engage citizens on these issues, enable open debate and provide adequate information and avoid unrealistic expectations. It's already done a lot. Croatia has come a long way in a short period of time and you can really be proud of your achievements. Let me tell you that there is great respect in Europe for this country and as you know as a very proud country. But hard challenges and a lot of hard work are still ahead of you. I have no doubt that you as parliament will really be very busy in the next period. I assure you that the commission will continue to assist Croatia in this process and that is why we, Commissioner Rehn, are, of course, our delegation to Zagreb. This process, in fact, is a process of building an area for peace, stability and progress. Let us not, when we negotiate the details of the chapter, forget this great general picture, the vision of Croatia's modern, advanced country in the heart of Europe. Let us not forget this great ambition for peace, for stability, for democracy in this region and throughout Europe, and when this process is over and Croatia takes the right place in the heart of the European family, so it will not only be Croatian but all citizens of Europe have reason to celebrate. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u53508	I thank Mr. Barroso for his extremely stimulating and encouraging speech at the Croatian Parliament. With this, this session would be over. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will continue to work at the 18th session at 12 o'clock. Thank you very much. And we move to the point of the agenda: - Annual report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency in the field of competition for 2004; in accordance with Article 36. The Competition Protection Act was submitted by the Competition Protection Agency by that report. You've received the material into the boxes. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction. Report you received. The government didn't give their opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? He does. Representative for the Proposal, Ms Olgica Spevec, President of the Council. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56931	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. You shall be presented with an annual report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for the year 2004 whose production is an obligation, as the Vice-President has said, resulting from Article 36. The Law on the Protection of Competition, and the purpose of the report, is to meet the Croatian Assembly which is the founder of the Competition Protection Agency, and the body to which the Agency is responsible for its work in accordance with the law, with the activities and results of the Agency's work, but also with the problems we face in the implementation of the law and ultimately with our views and suggestions regarding further improvement of the competition protection system in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, the purpose of the report is also to meet the Croatian public with the objectives of competition protection policy, to highlight its importance in order to strengthen the market economy and competitiveness of the Croatian economy, and in particular the role this policy plays, or should play in the role of protecting Croatian consumers. This report wishes to highlight once again the openness and transparency of the Agency's work in terms of giving opportunity to all interested people to learn about its work, the subject matter being processed, the content of its most significant decisions and as other activities based on the law. The subject matter report is structured to cover several thematic elements. In the first part, the activities of the Agency in relation to the production and proposing of rules in the field of competition are given. Given the fact that the issue of the legal arrangement of this matter is the starting point for all further activities of the Agency. It should be pointed out that the entry into force of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and before that of the Interim Agreement on Trade and Related Issues between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community are clearly and unequivocally established obligations of our country with regard to the harmonisation and application of competition legislation, as well as the powers of the Competition Protection Agency. In this regard, the Agency proposed during 2004, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted regulations which, on the one hand, were more detailed on this issue, i.e. individual institutes provided for by the Law on the Protection of Competition, which was adopted in 2003 and on the other hand, provided for greater legal certainty of the addressability of the Regulations themselves. Since the report contains a review of the basic provisions and solutions offered by the aforementioned Regulations, all those interested in the report may examine in more detail what the purpose is and those solutions are those Regulations. The second theme includes the Agency's activities relating to the implementation of the rules adopted. In which it should be noted that despite intensive work, 8 regulations have been adopted in 2004 and 2005, which are small laws, however, we have also ensured a relatively good level of urgency in solving the cases that were coming to the Agency. So it ended somewhere around 74% of the total number of items received. It is the end of the proceedings for some 315 cases, which were received in the 2004 report and in the previous years. The majority of the completed cases concerned a concentration assessment and an opinion on the conformity of the law on other rules with the competition law. In order to enable everyone, and above all, to give you representatives in the Croatian Parliament a closer insight into the nature and content of the subjects being processed in the Agency in this part of the report, are given a shorter summary of the individual decisions of the Agency relating to the control of the concentration of entrepreneurs, the assessment of the agreement, the opinion on the proposals of the law, etc. Also, it has already been said that a significant part of the activity is also related to jobs related to the promotion of so-called. the culture of competition, as raising the level of awareness and knowledge, information of entrepreneurs, as well as consumers, government and other state bodies, the judiciary and the general public on the importance of the role of policy and competition rights for the further development of the market economy in our country is a constant and continuous task of this Agency. In this regard, in order to ensure transparency of the Agency's work and judgments of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia, to which the Court assesses the legality of our solutions are published in the "National Journals" and on the Agency's website. These websites also contain press releases after each session of the Council, news on the Agency's work, and, more importantly, translation into Croatian, legal gains of the European Community in the field of competition and state aid, which is used in a sub-ordinary manner as an instrument of interpretation in the application of Croatian regulations. The Agency also organises conferences, seminars, etc. A significant part of the Agency's activities in 2004, but of course in 2005 it was aimed at improving cooperation with the so-called sector regulators which have, in part or in whole, also had, or still have, certain competencies in the field of protection of competition in sectors such as energy, telecommunications or banking. In addition to cooperation with these bodies, the Agency has initiated amendments to certain legislative solutions which, for example, regulate competition in the field of energy and telecommunications with a view to returning to the Agency's competence decisions on competition issues in these activities. That's where we've achieved certain successes. So in 2004, this was achieved on, in the energy sector, and in 2005, changes to the Telecommunications Act strengthened the role of the Agency in the field of telecommunications. Since this report aims to point out the existing weaknesses in the implementation of the competition protection system that stand in the way of establishing an effective system. Special attention is given to the issues and problems of the exercise of competition law, which also points to possible solutions which, in the Agency's view, and to the perceived weaknesses, if not to the fullest extent possible, would be removed. What's this about? One of the preconditions for the effectiveness of the Agency's work and of the system as a whole is the effective work of the court which decides on the legality of the decisions of the Agency. These courts that impose penalties for violations of the provisions of the law. The legality of the Agency's decisions, as you know, is decided by the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia. Such an arrangement is followed by a general regulation of judicial protection against decisions by administrative authorities, which, in the event of enforcement of competition protection rules, does not ensure the legal certainty of the parties, i.e. does not provide quick and effective legal protection because of the length of proceedings and the burden of the court. The average duration of the administrative dispute is three to four years, but it is also an important lack of specialised judges. At the same time, although the Law on the Protection of Competition provides for penalties which are appropriate to the nature and severity of violations of the law, and extended deadlines of limitation and further questions remain as to the implementation of the aforementioned legal solutions for the reason that penalties are imposed by infringement courts which interrupt the proceedings pending the decision of the administrative court, i.e. the power of the Agency's resolution, and the appeals against the resolution of the infringements of the courts are decided by the High Court of Justice of the Republic of Croatia, which, in general or almost entirely, leads to limitations. The results and effects of such a system have been sufficiently explained by the fact that since 1997, since the Agency has worked, only four penalties have been charged in minimum amounts, not based on the Law on the Protection of Competition but on the basis of the Law on Infringements. This practice has been abandoned in all members of the European Union, but also in other countries, for example in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In view of these weaknesses, we at the agency believe that a more logical and economic purpose would be a solution whereby the control of the legality of the decisions of the Agency and of other regulatory bodies would be given into the jurisdiction of commercial courts in which the effectiveness and specialisation of judges could be ensured. The Agency’s aim, therefore, is to encourage or initiate amendments to the relevant legislation in order to address the mentioned weaknesses and shortcomings that are actually in the way of establishing an effective competition protection system in our country. As in your report several times and the highlighted area of protection of competition, it is a legal and economically complex matter, which is only subject to the law of 2003 and sublegal acts during 2004 and 2005 fully regulated by Croatian regulations. The implementation of those rules requires an appropriate qualified administrative structure of the Agency. In other words, its continuous staffing and training of its employees is necessary in order to be able to apply valid standards in the procedures conducted before the Agency and to ensure that our employees deal equally with the best law offices and the largest companies in the Republic of Croatia which do not save money or other resources in the fight against the Agency's solution. The funds at the agency's disposal for education and training of employees are extremely modest and range at about 1% of our budget. However, every year, the number of masters of science and lawyers with a passed judicial exam is increased, primarily thanks to the use of funds from the European Union assistance programme, etc., other institutions, and additional expertise is obtained through literature, seminars held in the Agency through these aid programmes. It is important to stress that the role of the agency and the work it does in a very close connection with the negotiation process for Croatia's membership in the European Union, so that its activities and tasks should also be monitored through this additional dimension which Mr Barroso also spoke of this morning. Finally, while we are ready, of course, for criticism and different opinions on the report in front of you and in general on the work of the agency, let me point out once again that this is about the implementation of new legal matter and issues for which mastery needs both time and effort. There's no tradition. The previously acquired knowledge is very modest, even at our universities there are very few experts dealing with this problem. It is also not necessary to ignore the fact that the resources we have particularly financially are not enough for all those activities and steps we would like to take ourselves to establish a more effective system of competition protection in our country. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56932	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Chairman of the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction, Mr... Here you go. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56933	Mr. Vice President, Madam Agency Representatives. The Committee on the Economy, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament at the 38th session held on 21 November 2005, discussed the Annual Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency in the field of competition for 2004, which was in accordance with Article 36 of the Croatian Parliament. The Competition Protection Act was submitted by the Competition Protection Agency by means of an act of 11 November 2005. The Committee shall be within the meaning of Article 67. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the above annual report as a parent working body. The opening presentation was submitted by the representative of the Competition Protection Agency. Noting that in the European Union the problem of competition falls within the so-called "market competition". Secondary legislation, the Agency's representative, indicated that a number of regulations governing that area have been adopted in the Republic of Croatia. During 2005, the agency received 316 items, solved 74%. An important part of the Agency's activities were assessments, abuses of positions and so on. concentration allowed. Emphasising that the agency advocates competition in the business of legal entities in the Republic of Croatia, it was noted that the agency also regulates the relationship between entrepreneurs and makes solutions about the same, but does not have the right to sanction illegal behaviour, as it falls within the jurisdiction of the courts. Practice has shown that the penalties imposed by misdemeanors are too small and that the following do not result in the desired result. It is also pointed out that the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia controls the agency's solution in the second instance, noting that there is no specialised judge on the issue of the agency, which has been observed, and the latter requires better solutions. Following all, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: The Annual Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency in the field of competition for 2004 is accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56934	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56935	Dear Mr. Vice President, the esteemed representatives of the Agency, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. So, what's the point? So, the fight against the distortion of that market competition. This agency, which is the principal, if that's what it's called, should be prevented. On the other hand, however, the question arises whether it seems so. Infringement of the market competition. And I'm afraid that's not what I'm doing. It's not about subjective, objective, political, or ultimately perhaps judicial reasons. Because as the lady just told us, it's getting old. Since 97, only 4 fines have been charged, based on certain misdemeanors. And then the question really arises whether the dominant influence on these administrative courts has large capital? Not to say, are our administrative courts in any way corrupt? Maybe that's the way we should talk? On the other hand, is the Agency prevented from disrupting this market competition? I'm afraid not. For example, let us take this example of the Law on packaging waste, more precisely as the people like to call it, "the return of bottles". In my court, it's one commendable law. A law that isn't from today. It's a law from, if I'm not mistaken, back in '96. However, drink producers are elegantly agreed if the law is revived we will collectively raise the price of all these drinks that they have done in the end. And what did the Agency do after that? I don't know. To assume it's nothing. For example, what would such an agency do in America, France, Austria, or, say, neighbouring Italy? Well, she'd set these companies up with a fine of tens of millions of kuna or a dollar there, and we can see that nothing's going on. For example, in Austria, it was found that the leading bankers, 5 or 6 of them, agreed on credit transactions and their agency assessed that this was in breach of market competition, namely the position of citizens, i.e. small companies, large ones, anyway. She punished them with a few hundred million euros. What happens in such cases in Croatia? To assume it's nothing. By that logic let this faceless paradise of ours continue to pay for their harbinger. For example, in Paris hotelers agreed on prices and paid a huge fine. What happens in Croatia when a similar situation occurs? When do the leading hotelers, say, in Zagreb, Poreč or throughout the Adriatic agree prices? Absolutely nothing. So there's a question of what's going on, except once a year for a copy of last year's report? That, gentlemen, is happening on our market where great monopolies dominate, where no one protects the poor, where no one protects the citizens, where no one protects the small entrepreneur, it simply starts to offend common sense. Well, Croatia cannot, gentlemen, have the most expensive properties, the most expensive services, the most credits, the highest prices in these large consumer chains. Well, we shouldn't, I don't know, some companies in Croatia, e.g., show a net profit of a billion or more than a billion kunas net after tax. So we cannot, for example, allow telecommunications companies to negotiate prices or tariffs, so that banks agree, for example, together to challenge the position of the Croatian National Bank after it, for example, hints that it will increase the allocation of so-called mandatory reserves for our business banks. What do I even think about this monopoly, that is, the fight against monopoly on the Croatian market? On the other hand, as shown in this report from these pages, Croatia should certainly not favour the domestic industry on this so-called. as it is said to the common market. This is something that the President of the European Commission, Mr Barroso, also spoke about in the morning, but I object that we are simply starting to train strictness in moments where over 95% of the banking market of the Republic of Croatia is in the hands of foreigners, and certainly at this time over 95% of the telecommunications market. And soon more than 95% of the distribution of oil derivatives will be in the hands of foreigners. If we're just not comfortable here in some way, I'd say, the domestic industry is just going to fall apart overnight. When I say there will soon be over 95% of the distribution of oil derivatives in Croatia in the hands of foreigners, I mean the immediate sale of INA, and all with the goal of starting there with the beginning of the 6th month, so on. debt to pensioners, i.e. to begin to compensate the pensioners. I say all of this in the context of these thoughts expressed or principles on page 9, i.e. 10 of this Legislative proposal, where it is literally said that, basically, the right to market competition in a narrow sense in the European Union is governed by the following. The prohibition is, therefore, the conclusion of an agreement between entrepreneurs, the prohibition of the abuse of the ruling position of one or more entrepreneurs on the common market, Article 82 of the EC Treaty. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So on page 10, it is said that during 2004, the following regulations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia entered into force: the Regulation on the way of determining the relevant market, the Regulation on the way of reporting and the criteria for assessing the concentration of entrepreneurs, the Regulation on the common exemption of an agreement between entrepreneurs who do not act at the same level of production, or distribution, and that I do not list everything else, however little is applied in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, or through or thanks to our courts, in fact nothing is actually possible to live. Knowing that some of the monopolies in Croatia of that regulation that I was only trying to name here are simply not related that these monopolies I would say under my stance in this hour and in the judiciary, unfortunately and politics so it was probably yesterday, I'm afraid that's how it's going to be tomorrow. What to say about the way the INA gas manufacturer functions that favours its company openly, and the rest of them are eliminated from the market, which is once again kept silent, regardless of what INA covers 95% of the gas market and again... This, on page 22, is subject to heavy restrictions in the specialisation agreement, where price fixing for the sale of products to third parties, restrictions on production or sales, three divisions of markets or customers, etc., etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On page 26, the Agency opened 82 administrative cases in 2004 for the areas of evaluation of the agreement between entrepreneurs 7, assessment of the abuse of the position of entrepreneurs 50, assessment of the concentration of entrepreneurs 25. With the opinion that you gave in 2004, you had 316 cases solved, which is 74% or approximately one per day for 17 persons employed by party 27 in the competition protection sector and in the legal and economic system sector, and to that number as I somehow calculated, 5 members of the council should be added. A total of 22 workers or employees were employed in that agency at the moment. Now in that same material, for example. Gives an example of Hungary, well that Hungary has several times more inhabitants than the Republic of Croatia, it is said to work there, for example. 124 people in such bodies, but it is to be assumed that in one Hungary some standards are respected, and in Croatia thanks again, I am repeating that our judiciary is unlikely to respect anything. I'm going back to that packaging waste again, the liquor producers are openly provoking, the agency is, unfortunately, silent, and by something that's essentially in my court, good is getting bad. It's good that the producers pay that returned bottle for recycling treatment or what it's called, and it's wrongly clear on the other side that they're all in turn, I'm talking about these producers now increased the prices by 20, 30, 40 and 50%, even what's incomprehensible some of them I read somewhere yesterday, I don't know if I'm going to say well they introduced so-called. the intervention, not the contribution, not the tax, but the evil intervention fee, if they need them, they will have what to settle. Simply such practice cannot be brought to life by gentlemen regardless of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but I should not be tolerated in the future. I have the impression that no one in this country wants to be resented, no large-capital agency, no large-capital courts, many of which unfortunately seem to benefit. I'm afraid there's more protection of capital than there is protection of the manufacturer, and that's bad. What is certain when such reports are being subdued to us in the future should be done to indicate what objects you are doing because, based on this statistics, none of us have had the opportunity to look at this report from page one to the back can conclude anything. In the future, I am asking you, Madam, that we should simply be subject to what cases we are dealing with, because in this way we could be talked about, and I will also tell the courts and agencies, or certain large companies. In the end, the question is, how do you vote? At first, I hesitated, after you mentioned the case yourself, I dare say corrupt administrative courts, I'll vote absolutely for, unfortunately, the capital in this country got involved in the judiciary and it should be kind of exposed, and I'm afraid that through commercial courts in this country, the thing wouldn't be any better maybe even worse. The cancer of the wounds is somehow in Croatia's judiciary and in order to finally change the situation on the ground should change the Constitution before then and simply prevent policy from taking part in the confirmation that I do not tell the choice of judges. As long as it is so fortunate with the Croatian judiciary and those sacred principles of judicial independence, etc. It won't be. It's simply not going to happen. All in all, for the last time, I am asking you, Madam, that in the future we are really being provided with these examples that are really working to see what problems the agency is facing, to see how these cases are treated by competent courts because this practice has been since '97. the years to this day, and we all know what's going on on our market, that only 4 have been issued and some of those responsible, criminal punishments as we've heard it really isn't promising. It compromises you, your agency, it compromises this House that should monitor all of this, unfortunately most of all, under the quotes of our "independent administrative courts". One word like this doesn't lead to anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56936	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56937	Says colleague Cain, thanks to the courts, there's nothing he can do to resuscitate anything. It is simply not true, not because I am correcting this here in order to be an advocate or a lawyer of justice, at least it is in my best interest that no individual can do it, but in a situation where the Croatian judiciary and even administrative courts now have an annual inflow, and several years ago they had a million and 500, now they have a million and 800, so not every family of four members, now every three-member family has a subject. So I ask you, and the most orderly judiciary, find a more democratic country that can absorb it? Did we, as the legislative authority and the third branch of government, ask the executive government what produced so many items? That's the first question, and then this.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56938	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56939	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, in a series of incorrect allegations, one is quite significant. Says the agency is engaged in a fight against market competition. Well, I think he's still doing more capital control. Furthermore, the agency is definitely not dealing with useful waste, and it is hardly possible to affect which money pensioners will get their pensions back from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56940	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative of the Stengl.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56941	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is an incorrect allegation that Bulgaria has several times more inhabitants than Croatia. Hungary has twice as much as Croatia, and that is questionable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56942	Thank you. The word has on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club a respected representative of Šima Prtnječa.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56943	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the agency, colleagues and colleagues! I would like to say a few about the nature of this report, several important assessments and attitudes in movements at that time and in the period because we have heard that the Agency has actually been introducing from the adoption of laws and the signing of all contracts almost dared to say for the first time the full report. Since there is not enough experience in Croatia, of course, that certain errors and assessments are possible, and so I want to put the point today on the very area to which the report only gives the point for 2004 and these are, of course, support or state support in different areas, a brief review and a copy of the report, but with messages that need to be followed by this report and how to consider it. In my opinion, or in our HDZ, this report comes at a really convenient time when different phenomena appear in a different way. It should be pointed out that by signing, in particular by signing the SAA and by adopting other necessary accompanying laws that we have then adopted, by making a budget for this year, or by having all the discussions that were held at the time independent of the signed commitments of the SAA, and by making certain wishes that arise, as well as the assessments that we have heard today, and we ourselves know that we are a little late in this area, and in fact this report should have exactly the basic message that needs to be done, which is done and what needs to be done to be speedily prepared for the entry into Europe. The report itself has the primary function of actually protecting this competition in accordance with the agreed rules and not according to its own wishes. In this respect, it should be recalled that two core areas have been taken over in the SPS in the area of state incentives. The first is to prohibit the granting of State aid precisely for the purpose of distorting competition. Therefore, we accepted that obligation. It should then be done as well as in the allocation of funds but also in the assessment of the purpose of these funds. Second, it will be supervised by an independent agency that is here in the beginnings and, of course, should be supported and encouraged but also taken other measures so that it can meet its legal obligation. And what happens in that time? To quote today and here that these are state support I think it's really excessive, and also to define which forms are I just want to say that state support, I'm not going to list, of course, all the forms, that state support under the commitments is not only making money support but all the other instruments that mean also possible distortion of the competition. And when we often discuss here, we usually only discuss those financial support and all those other forms especially in certain sectors, especially in sectoral areas we have big guarantees and the rest that also makes support and also makes some imbalances in relation to the commitments made to the European Commission. Europe has regulated, we have also taken over, one part of the definition of census or amount which is not considered support in a particular area, especially in the case of steel and transport exports. In Europe, it is believed that there is a limit of 100,000 euros somewhere, and then around 750 thousand kunas were taken over. Therefore, this would not be the subject of a distortion of competition and of a match resulting in results. Now almost all the areas will fly away very briefly. It is not considered that it is not subject to supervision and that it is regulated according to the SAA and other areas and other laws that are so called. horizontal support, these are sectoral support. I'm going to stop at sectoral for a moment because there are several horizontal ones, so I couldn't explain the time frames. Steel and shipbuilding stories with us. Steel of Sisak Iron, it seems to me that Split Iron and Shipbuilding know the situation which is. The guarantees we use with them and the needs we use with them. On the one hand, of course, given the situation that we have to continue to intervene and do further support in order to maintain them, but this violates a certain part of our commitments to regulate the competition, we have even heard that some other shipyards need to be put into operation so that the state can fully support them. Railway transport is also regulated by similar rules in the European Union but also by us so that we can also prepare it because... related to what needs to be done in the railway sector in order to be able to provide individual support in the sector. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But when we discuss the budget, then it looks a little different, as if the SAA and other commitments had been accepted. At the agency, we accepted the obligation that she would do it, that she was setting it up, and the state would have to give up. The state, I mean the government and everyone else, and we here in the Parliament have to deny that the agency requires rather than ask the agency and enables the agency to carry out its legal obligation. Now, several phenomena in 2004, we are talking mainly about the 2004 report rather than the entire period in which the agency has been taken over and defined at all. In 2004, some 6.1 billion kunas of support were distributed, and although the report still shows that we are not nominally sufficient for various forms of support but that relatively compared to Europe according to the GDP indicators structurally when seen other than agriculture and fisheries, we are still far from complying with Europe's requirements. But you will have to do this because we have accepted the obligation to carry out this harmonisation within a limited period of about three years. So, in this context, according to the categories of state aid and the monitoring of the execution of state aid there we also defined that Croatia, I remind you, is one region and that this is not about five or more regions but that Croatia is being monitored as one region and it is important to point out precisely for the reasons when it comes to regional and other forms of support. Therefore, we must also analyse such phenomena in this context. Under these regional support, regional maps, of course, can be played especially in areas of particular concern, and there are then supports made up of that part of tax exemption. It's not just direct financial resources, it's everything that comes in. Regional harmonisation also needs to be speeded up in order to speed up this time, until more serious demands come, to speed up this regional harmonisation of Croatia through the basis of these forms and instruments of action in this area. The transport of shipbuilding and tourism is particularly possible, but time is running out. In the case of shipbuilding, it is especially important to try and feel that this period should be used in the area of restructuring and adaptation and shipbuilding. In fact, we still stand out about 10% of the ship's price as an incentive to build a local shipyard and in those 10%, we don't ask what the cost is? Whether the price of a ship is 60 million or 50 is approximately as marketable in the world today is about orientation. Therefore, as a preparation for such support and other forms of support, it should be gradually entered into a very painful restructuring cut. This applies to those laws that we are already in preparation and some we have brought to HH and also to the protection of steel in these two steels that we have in this time that is coming. Very short on the forms of support for 2004. The subsidies continue to be cash subsidies. Furthermore, they continue to constitute the largest share of that market action or influence. Tax exemptions, we already said the Law on areas of particular concern or interest or whatever you call it but it still only works through that instrument, especially through a tax exemption instrument and through it has a trend, this element has a trend of growth. The following shares were in equity, and this is the obligation taken that the state has a gradual decrease in equity and we will have to carry out that obligation, although we already have a phenomenon that even companies are returning or are very happy to come under the state cap. But the obligations we've taken must be implemented. Therefore, when we are discussing this phenomenon, we must clearly identify ourselves as to what to do next. The more favourable loans one of the instruments was in one period, a relatively short period of impact, but it is extremely not marketable and it must now have a tendency to fall and gradually drop through forms of action. State guarantees, we remember all stories, wishes, but also possibilities especially in shipbuilding and HH. In shipbuilding and HZ this instrument is very powerful still in both forms of guarantees. It will likely be in the years to come until Europe again tells us this way not to force us to speed up the denial of these instruments and the possibility of regulation or not market regulation in this area. Here's just an example of why HZ used guarantees? Just two, three examples. It says: it was used to pay off short-term loans, liquid liquidity, loss-covered assets, and so on. So basic, basic insurance instruments so HH can perform its function. Agriculture and fisheries, all exceptions are subject to special regulations, but here is a very short report on the way and points out that subsidies are almost and exclusively the only instrument of impact on these two sectors. It even shows that in 2004, compared to 2003, it was the subsidies themselves, but that's why I said in the introduction that everything belongs to the instruments? Subsidies are just one of them. That the subsidies of this money that agriculture and fishing are about 14% higher than the previous period. Industrial services in the area since 2002, 2004 have been cumulatively estimated to have increased around 120% and in these incentives in particular... that these instruments, which will also have to be gradually selectively coordinated according to the commitments made by the SAA. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We won't be able to forget any more that we've made those commitments. There is still a strong impact of this instrumentation on land transport, in the sectoral, transport sector, and especially in the HH sector. The point is the most important part here. In sailing these days, we've heard the grades of different and the effects of what is all being used on? On the subsidisation of lines and fleets, it encourages the construction of ships in domestic shipbuilding, but still significant in air transport. So these are all sectoral areas that we will have to continue but under control and a cap of obligations we have accepted and the agency has a significant role to play there. In shipbuilding, here is the information I point out because we often have all kinds of discussions here and there that according to this report officially in 2004 compared to 2003, subsidies increased by 7.7%. In particular, this applies to those 10% obligation to participate in the price of the ship, but the state cannot affect the price of the ship. That's the problem that we'll have to control and get in the way it's allowed. In harmonising and possible protection of domestic national interests, I believe that we are all clubs and all parties are in agreement only the question of how much we will be able to fight that certain areas, especially these sensitive areas of shipbuilding, railways or transport, various forms of transport, this part of agriculture, fishing as much as possible and other areas can be, I will, by free interpretation, arrange a timing to continue to take over those areas, or continue to be encouraged to be prepared for the match. This report says it's done a lot in these areas. That they're quite well, that we've adapted quite well in this area but we're still significantly behind on our commitments. Therefore, this step and this rate of adjustment in the coming time will have to be accelerated independently on what we think about individual sectors and what we want in certain sectors. So we think this report should be served as one side of the status assessment with us. On the other hand, an assessment of the effectiveness of adaptation to Europe and of the third-party assessment of the necessary measures and steps to be taken in order to carry out those obligations so that we can continue the story we had behind this speaker this morning. We support this report. We can also take a critical look at it, but we believe that this report was done for a certain period and for certain phenomena. Therefore, as such, we accept him and we will vote for his adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56944	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56945	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the HDZ Club, the esteemed representative of Šima Prtenjač made one incorrect and generally incorrect claim that the SAA prevented the development of the market or incentives in Croatia. That's not true. Here's why. That we did not, that we did not pass the Law on the division of HH we could build and modernise HH and thus enable its competitive capacity to enter the European Union or possibly privatise HH. Undisputed. Second. If we hadn't brought again as we passed the Encouragement Act, we could have at least planted as many olives as Croatia had at the beginning of the 20th century, 33 million official statistics in the Republic of Croatia. We didn't use it, so we tied our hands to these laws, now in this mandate, and we didn't have to bring it right away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56946	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56947	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam President of the Council, ladies and gentlemen. Allow a few words on the report, on the annual report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2004. After the new law has been passed, it means that the Law on the Protection of Competition in 2004 and 2005 has been adopted and that all implementing rules and should be commended to the Agency clearly and to all those involved. The obligation of the Republic of Croatia, and here is the lady, is instructed to bring her legislation in line with the acquis of the European Community. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States and the Republic of Croatia. So, international contracts since 2001. I will try on behalf of the HSS Club to warn about what kind of environment the Agency is working in and what legislation is based on some examples. In this agreement, Article 74 also provides for consumer protection where there is talk of harmonisation of legislation and adaptation of consumer protection and active consumer protection policies, greater information and legal protection to improve the quality of consumer goods and maintain appropriate safety standards. This Agency, in fact, this report on page 11 on their work, says: "The agency in each particular case pays particular attention to the conditions of access to the market, especially transport costs, the possibility of access to distribution channels and related costs, habits and consumer customs. To figure that out, I'll try to show it by the next example. How much we are in a hurry to ensure the placement of organic fruit and vegetables, which we all say we have predispositions, is the following information in Chapter 7. "Agriculture" on page 98. The question of the quality of fruit and vegetables stemming from the Food Act is so far regulated by the fruit, vegetables and mushrooms, "The Official Journal", writes Yugoslavia 29/79, 53/87. The difference between the applicable Regulation and the European Union which regulated its own means its quality by Commission Regulation on page 99: "The fruit and vegetable quality standards set out in these Commission Regulations are different from the quality standards set out in the existing Regulation on the quality of fruit, vegetables and mushrooms in the Republic of Croatia.". You're wondering why I'm giving the comparison. Well, I guess it's pretty clear that why excessive imports under cover of quality are imported if our standards are different. So the year of the regulation was '79. and '87, and Commission Regulation, the latest. It's true, it's decadent to say that their quality is higher and higher. I am now asking myself and you don't the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have the right to have the same quality fruit and vegetables as the citizens of the European Union? If this were in accordance with our legislation with the European Union, then this Agency could set itself up, to say the least and protect us through the Food and Agency Act, which controls that quality again. And we'd be protected. Furthermore, if this Agency is talking about consumer habits and customs, must farmers and fishermen themselves provide a market for their products and catches? Whether the overpriced product price is an obstacle to these products having a market or perhaps the state should ensure that quality products are monitored, certified and declared, informed manufacturers thereof, and that despite the higher price, access to those products on the market is enabled. We believe in the HSS that the European Union will probably not require us to update the '79 fruit and vegetable quality regulation. And '89. A year. The answer is clear which is why you would. Because the protection is lower and the quality is lower. Is it possible for us to make it easier for these old rules to import fruits and vegetables from Europe, the whole world and neighbouring countries of the former Yugoslavia, and possibly the future regions as the European Community is preparing for us? It is obvious that the interests of domestic agricultural producers, family farms of domestic fishermen are not protected. Again, the Agency's impossible mission to try to compare with the European Union's gains. You read along with me from the sea to the fish buyer travels for five days. The arrival of veterinarians from Sibenik to Primosten fish review 80 kuna + 200 kuna for a review of up to 500kg of fish. Italian fishermen have up to one ton of cost 1 euro. Can the ministries systemize these data, check, find ways to protect local fishermen, but also enable us in the interior to buy fresh fish caught on the Adriatic? We all speak in examples to see how disproportionate you really are and how much an institution like this can protect us. Market competition continues to cover competition policy in a narrow sense, so-called anti-trust and state support control. There's already... The Commission considers that the aid granted by the State is compatible with the internal market in the form of State aid. horizontal support provided for research and development, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship in one part, environmental protection, promotion of employment and support to poor regions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We actually think that we haven't done our job to the end of it, the job we should be doing. In fact, the current legal framework does not contain a single legal act that would systematically address regional development issues throughout the country's territory. We know that the Law on Islands, the Law on the Field of Special State Care, the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area, the Law on the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar, the Act on the Regional Development Fund, has been adopted. If we look at this institutionally, there is no clearly defined institutional framework for the implementation of regional development. And now, yes, this criticism is clearly partly on us, but also on the government, to the ministries that need to frame it all. One example again in the framework of the CARDS 2002 project. The capacity building strategy for regional development will define all the necessary mechanisms, instruments for implementing regional development policy and an appropriate legal framework. One of the objectives of the project mentioned and defining the appropriate legal basis for regional policy in Croatia, which will correspond to the legal basis in the Member States of the European Union. The project started in October 2003, it will last for two years, and a proposal of the said act will be drawn up in that period, more specifically the proposal for a single legal framework for regional policy should be ready for the parliamentary procedure by October 2005, I read on purpose in the past time, it has never been made, it is not in the parliamentary procedure. The question arises, whether it has given up regional development or all regions have simply developed quickly that they do not need help. So what might get state support we don't want to encourage, it's important to import fruit and vegetables through a 79-year rule. Maybe we shouldn't bother about it if it's our future, and it's a little bit this morning and it's said to be a Balkan region, because it was as a premise of authority said that only then could we go to the European Community. And now another example of what kind of environment the agencies are working in and what legal frameworks they must use. In the reply of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the European Commission questionnaire in the summer of 2003, competition on page 17, Chapter VI, the question is what future state support is foreseen, please respond according to Community classifications. The government responds among other things: The overall economic concept and the strategy has not yet been established, some development strategies have been fully and partially outdated, therefore the answer to this question remains open and will require multiple consent to the final position, but it is obvious that certain state aid, re-examination and long-term structure should be redesigned especially in agriculture and fisheries. The SPS provisions require the harmonisation of the support programme which has been established by the rules of the European Union by 1 March 2006. We're almost there. I wonder if maybe the time isn't running out on us, or if we're not making strategies, laws, regulations, not encouraging everything that looks like success while encouraging was allowed itself, I'm just not going to mention what someone else is setting us up. For example, integrated agricultural production in Croatia has no law. Why is it not systematically organised production of organic food which is increasingly sought on the world market, in the end why agro-bank is not yet established and so many more issues. In the HSS, we estimate that the report was correctly written in the frameworks within which the agency could work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56948	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed representative of Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56949	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Proposers, here I would concentrate on three topics in this regard to the report. One is the financing of the Competition Protection Agency, one is the imposition of penalties by misdemeanor courts and another, as Collar's colleague focused on agriculture, I would refer here to the provision of public service and a monopoly in providing public services. In particular, the area of competition is one of the key preconditions of a successful market economy. We also heard this this morning in the address in which Mr José Barroso addressed us, although what is of exceptional importance in the process of approaching the European Union, thus serving the timely preparation of Croatian entrepreneurship for the conditions of business of the single European market, the rules of the competition game are also a constitutional category which should provide all entrepreneurs with what we call an equal legal position in the economy. The main objective is precisely fair play in the competition as one of the best incentives for entrepreneurs, which ultimately benefit entrepreneurs and end-users, as well as the state as they are considered a grey zone of the economy. The Croatian agency according to statistics and percentages seems to be effective, but the situation is not very clear, because by comparing agencies in the European Union, it is an advisory body whose advice you can, but you do not have to accept, starting from entrepreneurs to the government itself and the judiciary, because the repressive measures are almost nothing. In view of this, the agency is engaged in harmonising the aquis communauta, the entire report states that the practice as it is in us does not exist in the countries of the European Union. It has also been said that the agency has made significant efforts to implement an active competition promotion policy, which is essentially two seminars for a very narrow number of people. While millions of kunas are forecasted for promotion and intellectual services in some ministries, for example at the Ministry, only military work is planned for the military part in 2006, you will not believe in the agency for this same purpose, 60 thousand kuna for promotion and information. How important it is for the Government to inform and educate the public about the rules of the competition game sufficiently speaking this information. For example, there would only mention one unit of local self-government, that is the City of Zagreb, where 90 million kuna is provided for intellectual services in the City of Zagreb budget, and the rest under the sentence is a total of 135 million kuna. That's what I'm saying in order to get a picturesque comparison between what's supposed to finance the information and promotion of the agency higher than the other costs we have in this country. One of the most important areas of activity of the agency is the publication of an opinion on the conformity of the draft bill, one of these laws was the one on the media provided by the Ministry of Culture to the Agency with a deadline of less than one working day for giving an expert opinion. Another example is the level of legal tariffs and registrations in Croatia, which the agency said that such a model does not have a single European system, and here we are, as you know, passing through. This was just an illustration of how much the government's ministry is holding to the expert opinion of this agency. The Union's competition legislation is constantly changing, modernising and adapting to the new global market economy conditions. Harmonisation and the constant adaptation of Croatian legislation with a acquis as important as it is must not be a goal to itself. At the same time, it is necessary to ensure the correct change of this legislation by continuing institutional strengthening of the Agency as an institution which is also established to carry out these tasks, but also by a genuine non-declarative adjustment of the Croatian judicial system. It is primarily necessary to educate the government and other state bodies, and then to educate entrepreneurs, consumers and the judiciary themselves. Only a declarative adjustment of the European Union's acquis, and since this government has set out, there is no purpose or purpose in spending taxpayers' money. So now under one, in order to ensure the real and full effectiveness of the implementation of the adopted rules, two basic preconditions must be met. The first is the effectiveness of the Agency's work, which means its institutional strengthening, and which is not possible without a greater increase in the share of the Agency's budget in that state. Thus, in the 2006 budget, this amount was increased by 3.6 million kuna. It is intended for 2006, if you look at the budget, provided for by $12.9 million. Given that, as much as anyone may have impressed the Agency's efficiency statistics, it is not compatible with those in the Union. European agencies have far more employees and a much more effective legal and repressive role. Secondly, the second prerequisite for the successful work of the Agency is the effectiveness of the work of courts deciding on the legality of the decisions of the Agency. The initial step is that the Agency really works as it is today, we can really call it a ficus in our society. In accordance with the applicable Competition Protection Act, the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia is relevant. It's 350 misdemeanor courts. Such a legal solution requires deeper changes in the Croatian legal system. Furthermore, in the applicable law, the Agency does not have the power to impose penalties for the implementation of a specified law. The Agency does not have the power to impose penalties for implementation, therefore, despite the great effort of that body, to develop detailed economic and legal analyses in each particular case, the decision of that body is solely a declarative nature. Unlike such a legal solution in the Member States of the European Union, related institutions have the power to impose penalties. So they're even more effective than our agency. Furthermore, the penalties based on the Agency's resolution are imposed by misdemeanor courts, which I repeat 350. The High Court of Infringement of the Republic of Croatia decides on complaints. The appeal against the solution does not delay its execution. On the other hand, the legality of the Agency's decision is decided by the Administrative Court of Croatia. There are at least two shortcomings in such an arrangement. It follows a general regulation of judicial protection against decisions by administrative authorities, which I find inappropriate in this case because it does not provide quick and effective legal protection and leads to legal uncertainty. Another drawback is that a large number of judges in the Republic of Croatia must be familiar with this particular problem of competition. Visible, tangible problems in practice are numerous. The long-term sustainability of administrative disputes without being able to impose penalties, and such a dispute in Croatia on average lasts 4 to 6 years. Furthermore, not giving sentences by criminal courts, they won't believe, because of old age. Courts avoid imposing penalties on the basis of provisions of the Competition Protection Act and use the possibility of easing penalties under the Law on Violations and impose inappropriately low penalties for serious infringements of competition protection rules, which other European countries punish by fines in millions of euros. Let's think of examples, for example, of Microsoft. In addition to these reasons, given that the economic problem is more logical, but also an economically meaningful solution, it would be to control the legality of the decisions of the Agency and to control the penalties imposed on the Court of Justice in Zagreb. Such an arrangement would be in line with European standards and would allow for systematic education and specialisation of courts. Today, under the applicable Law, the solution is impossible to educate all judges who will possibly be once, and probably never in their careers competent to decide on an object in this area. Such a solution is neither rich in European countries, but the decision on the legality of the decisions of the bodies of the related agencies is entrusted to a specialised court. What you would like to look at now is something that we have witnessed these days or the last months in Zagreb, which is opening, that is, providing public services. Public services, as you know, are defined in the Consumer Protection Act, says: "In the sense of this Act, sales to consumers of electricity, gas from the distribution network, thermal energy, public telecommunications services, postal services, etc., services in suburban transport, drinking water supply, wastewater disposal, and maintenance of cleanliness are considered a public service." Namely, when providing public service, we can look for a solution the Agency made in October last year, and the solution refers to the entrepreneur "Ponikve d.o.o." from Krk, which violated the competition by misusing the ruling position on the relevant water supply market of households through the water network and draining and treatment of waste water. In this regard, the water supplier concerned, as the only water supplier, supplied water, cubic water to different consumers at different prices. Those who used lower prices were higher, and those who used higher prices were lower. The decision, of course, was made alone, and now the question is whether a public service, whether a municipal service is in our country because of the various other laws that it is regulated is actually a monopoly. We are witnessing these days in the City of Zagreb that a holding of 24 companies has formed. Holding which is precisely the task of providing such public services, holding which in its portfolio has about 4 and a half billion kuna capital and which is, in fact, the only one, not to say monopolies, on the service market, communal services. The more even the regulation remains, the legislation goes for the fact that, under the current Law on the Communist Economy, it is practically impossible for the market and there is some competitiveness. So when we talk about water, which was last month, in the City of Zagreb, water has increased, as you know, to 8 kuna per cubic. The decision was made by the economy, the price structure was only evident in the consumer association's newspaper article. However, the very fact of the obvious has not changed anything. So we know that the water and sewerage in the City of Zagreb has a monopoly on water delivery because it is the only water distributor and can practically decide on the price it wants. In itself, the monopoly would not be problematic until the monopoly institution has begun to abuse itself and let's be honest with the agency by now cannot even intervene. However, what should be done until things on the market are achieved, until competitiveness in the market for these services is achieved, and while other legislation is not changed in that sense, it should strengthen the role in those activities where consumers are victims of these monopolies, such as in this case, or where it should be created on certain consumer associations which, in addition to the consumer protection and speaking law, which should be advisory bodies in the chapters in the adoption of the price on regulation, the determination of the price of water and other such services. Today, we do not have this and today the headship can determine any price, I think it is the minimum that we need to achieve for this regulation to change and in some ways ensure that more public service providers in the markets are provided. Perhaps just for the end, we from the HNS Club will certainly support this report in the hope that these three aspects of which I have discussed in due course and in the following reports that we will get a different display precisely given the quality that the agency should achieve and the funding and importance it should have in our society. So much on our side, we support and support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56950	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The word has a distinguished representative, Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56951	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Agency for the Protection of Competition, its work can only be praised, as well as this very transparent and neatly complex report. I don't think there's any dilemma about whether this report should be accepted or not, but I think about that question as far as I can see, there's a consensus in Parliament. Market competition is a system category that provides all entrepreneurs with an equal legal position on the market, the report said in the preface and adds: "The competition law is not automatically developed by the country's definition of the market economy, but it is also necessary to translate the relevant competition policy". In addition to the necessary laws to be adopted and adopted in Croatia with a number of sublegal acts, with the Agency's action this company needs and a certain policy, let's call it a better behaviour in the competition. Here's what I mean. Three mobile phone service providers operate in Croatia. These days we have witnessed that one of these service providers is advertised with the help of one of the representatives in the Croatian Parliament. I know that the representative is at the same time the coach of our very successful handball team and probably in that function of performance in that ad, but no man is a double personality and the coach of the team must understand, must know that he is also a representative or that perhaps before he is a representative rather than a coach and that his decision to participate in the advertising campaign of one of the three operators can harm the competition, the quality of that competition, simply fair play in this area. We can imagine a writer's representative, they were like that in this House, Mr. Arab. What would happen if such a representative advertised a publisher, used his influence, his position as a representative to engage in one and not particularly fair campaign? The second question is, is the reputation of a parliamentary representative such that he can help with the campaign he participates in or actually harm him? But we'll leave that question open to the public court. We also have the case where the Government, by its decision to forgive 30 million debts once, will somehow interfere with the competition, so there are other companies, other companies, private companies, entrepreneurs who are engaged in the same activity, and they hire some workers and one of their employees needs to be cared for. The only thing other than this is that they didn't create a debt that someone should forgive them, and then this 30 million-dollar-for-one entrepreneur is a debt covered by a religious concern for jobs. So why aren't you thinking about jobs with other entrepreneurs? You see, with all the action commendable to the Agency, with the laws we can't have how wonderful the laws, but if the Government, with its one decision, doesn't have the Prime Minister alerted by the ministers, yet decides to break the competition in favor of one and only one subject on that market, then we can't talk about better customs, then we're still far from the goals we're seeking, then by such behaviour we can talk to the representatives, to the President of the European Commission today whatever we want, we can, he can trust us, but while we're talking to him one thing, and then we're not prepared for Europe, and then by our behaviour the Government shows that it's not ready for Europe, because that's not the country in Europe that way. Therefore, all praises to the Agency, all commendation to this report and one invitation to all those responsible, above all to the prime minister, then representatives who may not be aware that they are doing this on purpose, but by their behaviour they interfere with the competition in an unauthorized way not to do so because respect for better customs will help us in this segment, so in this problem we have as few disputed situations as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56952	Thank you. Replica's esteemed representative, Stengl.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56953	Thank you. Is one respected representative from the ranks of the SDP who usually sits in front of fellow Stazic not advertising anything and is a well-known athlete?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56954	Thank you. The word has the esteemed representative Joseph Leko. ... I'm the one who called the esteemed representative Lek. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You could have. Maybe someone just gave you the wrong idea right now if you didn't hear it. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56955	I beg you, given that there was a correction to the wrong quote I would ask the representative to repeat what he said. It was a replica. But I didn't hear, the representative mumbled.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56956	In accordance with Article 214, I give you a warning. You've picked up a record of "infringement of the Rules of Procedure" and you're asking for a repeat replica. And it's not about any damage to the Rules of Procedure and it's not my fault you didn't hear. It doesn't say in the Rules of Procedure that I'm looking again.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56957	Let me ask you again what the representative said. Well, you're in charge of order. Well, you have a duty to warn your representative to speak louder and loudly that he understands what he's trying to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56958	The word has the esteemed representative Joseph Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56959	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Presidents of the Council, colleagues and fellow MPs! Very short. I have already said one part of my exposure in a single correction of the quote, but the main thing I want to point out in my report is that unfortunately, the Competition Protection Agency is not a consumer protection agency and has no direct link or consumer protection objective. But if the system of market protection works, then indirect consumers get it. Then indirect consumers are protected. A colleague, Stazic, has already cited one decision by the government or prime minister to forgive the debt which is a direct interference in the competition. And I wanted to do something about what has already been said here that the Stabilisation and Association Agreement has tied the hands of Croatia when it comes to the development of the market or the training of the Croatian economy for competitive ability with the markets of the European Union countries. It is simply not true, especially not the general assessment that the Stabilisation Agreement has come out of our hands to raise the competitive capacity of Croatia's economy in general and individual entities to successfully compete on the European market through support and incentives. Here's an example. We did not have to pass the law on the division of HZ and thus we brought it to ourselves as a state that we could use incentives to train HZ in order to be able to maintain our function in competition with similar companies in the European Union. We haven't even modernised the Croatian Adriatic ports, and we could have run the incentive policy for at least two years and trained Croatian ports to be able to compete in the European Union. I have already said, but these are other support that we could have already planted at least 15 million olive trees and reached half of what was on the Croatian Adriatic at the beginning of the 20th century and thus would have also qualified the Croatian economy for the competition in the European Union. We haven't done all this, and we've passed a few laws that we ourselves have limited to acting on our own to support our competitive ability. And something that encouraged me today is about protecting the competition. Some daily newspapers have published a covert advertising of the so - called so - called so - called newspaper. interest-free loans. Several Croatian banks are credit-free. Of course, banks should not be advocated but Croatian citizens should be protected. There's no interest-free credit. There's no credit without the price of money. In that sense, I think it is also a duty of the agency, because it is a destruction of the competition, to react to such propaganda messages because it is a seduction and it is an unfair game on the Croatian money market, especially since the state is not protecting much less so that interest is happening and the newspaper is writing about it, even the minister announces that he will oppose it just let him say by what means. Maybe a fresh example. During this session, we had a state audit report. The state audit found that goods and services were purchased outside the Public Procurement Act of 3 billion and 600 million during 2004. Did such procurement encourage or tear down the market and the loyal match on that market? It is certain that if we also have a report on the agenda of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, where in 2004, the State Commission conducted procedures in a secondary procedure of 7 billion and 200 million kuna were disputed solutions to public procurement. When 3 billion and 600 million were added to this, which the State Audit found to be not by law and 7 million, 7 billion 200 million, which had been fought by disputes before the State Commission, then it turns out that in 2004 alone, 11 billion and 200 million kunas, about 11 billion and 200 million kunas, were decided by the Public Procurement Act. Such a result must have its opinion and the Competition Protection Council on such a result. It is not possible on the small market that there is no impact of consumption of 3 billion and 400 million in addition to the Public Procurement Act on the correctness of the market. If known, and again here in the report it is said that 75 requests before the State Commission have the result of contesting the tender and that it has been unlawfully implemented increases our assessment that our market is not regulated and that the deregulation does not affect positively even the government. What about the report itself? He did a statisticalally excellent job. Even the software's well-placed. However, for a stronger impact, it will also have to be possible to train a staff but possibly also an organisational competition protection council, but also to ensure full protection of the court. So the court is full of jurisdiction when it comes to second-degree proceedings in these cases. All of this suggests that in some things we were naive, so we brought regulations that bind our hands, and in other things we influence the deregulation of the Croatian market. Of course, this will not be a good ticket to the European Union, and it is better that as soon as possible, we learn how it is possible that such a large percentage of public procurement goes past the law, beyond the law. At the same time, we do not have the right to encourage the training of the Croatian economy and its competitive capacity to join the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56960	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation by a respected representative of Šima Prtnječa.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56961	So here's when we have a little fun Mr. Leco called the principal, I won't say how, let her say it, and secondly he said that the best example of an unfair banking game, banks offer loans and so on, and that the Agency is obliged to oversee the supervision of the banking sector is performed by the CNB, not the Agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56962	Thank you. The word has a esteemed representative, Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56963	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam President of the Competition Protection Council. Although we have already stepped well in 2006 a report on the work of the Agency for the Protection of Competition for 2004 comes with a delay of one year which, of course, does not go to the Agency's soul. Because of the awareness that competition and its regulation in Croatia are very young disciplines that entrepreneurs and the public relatively little know the Agency's report always has a certain educational note, and by collecting, and it is supported by examples that illustrate the conduct in different cases. I will personally support the annual report on the work of the Agency for the Protection of Competition in the field of competition for 2004 not only because of the detailed analysis of the report and the difficulties in the Agency's work but also because of real and concrete proposals for the possibility of improving the work of the Agency which is an effective competition or the establishment of a market in which entrepreneurs participate fully evenly and on equal terms. And their position on the market is only valued by the quality of the products and services they offer. From the fact that the protection of competition and constitutional category, which provides all entrepreneurs with the same legal position on the market, and entrepreneurship and market freedom are the cornerstones of the economic structure of the Republic of Croatia by strengthening entrepreneurship, a competitive competition that raises quality and determines the price of products and services is regulated. And consumers get the option of selecting more offered products and services than more bidders, which is the best and most important quality and at lower prices. It is precisely mentioned that the task of competition law which prevents any form of monopoly or prevents measures and practices on the market which may lead some entrepreneurs to an unwarranted advantage over others and threatens the freedom of competition. Efficient competition is the best incentive for entrepreneurs to produce quality products with the development of technological innovations, which enables the development of new, quality and cheaper products. This leads to increased competitiveness on both domestic and foreign markets. The task of the Competition Protection Agency is governed by the Law on the Protection of Competition with which the Law in the Republic of Croatia rules on the protection of competition fully comply with the primary source of competition law in the European Union. However, in order to implement competition law, it is necessary to promote and develop a culture of competition. It is also necessary to cooperate with specific regulatory bodies such as cooperation with the Croatian National Bank, the banking sector regulator or the Telecommunications Agency and not to list. What this Agency does. Taking into account that the Law on the Protection of Competition in application from 1 October 2003 is a job of harmonising legislation in this area with the acquis of the European Union which is changing and supplementing in the European Union, therefore, the monitoring and adaptation of Croatian legislation to the acquis of the European Union must be a permanent and continuous process and task until our full membership in the European Union is achieved. The law provides for the adoption of a series of sub-legislative acts, and an important source of competition law in the European Union is judicial practice, and in order to effectively implement the law, there will be a need for a lot of efforts to institutionally strengthen the Agency with the greatest responsibility, but it will be necessary and greater specialisation of judges, i.e. courts that decide on the legality of the decisions of the Agency, so the Administrative Court of Justice of the Republic of Croatia, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice of the Republic of Croatia, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice of the Republic of Croatia, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice of Justice, which lays down the penalties for implementing the provisions of the Law of Competition, i.e.e. Infringement courts and the High Violent Court of the Republic of Croatia. However, here the question arises whether this is the position of things that ensure rapid and effective legal protection, or this is how we lead to the legal uncertainty of the parties due to the longevity of criminal and administrative disputes? And would it be effective for the Competition Protection Agency to give more power to amend laws or sublaws? In order to ensure that decisions and solutions of the Agency are implemented and that, in the jurisdiction of the trade court, there is a control of the legality of those solutions and the decisions of the Agency in order to put them against the monopoly in a timely and correct manner. This report shows that the period of intensive work in line with the harmonisation of legislation with the acquis of the European Union, the Competition Protection Agency with the President of the Competition Protection Council, Ms Olgico Spevec, ended 74% of the total cases received in this reporting period, and despite the fact that today its number of employees has remained significantly below the necessary number for the effective implementation of the Competition Protection Act in 2004. I will personally support the 2004 Report on the protection of competition competition in the field of competition, given what I have said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56964	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Ms. Spevec, President of the Council. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56965	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable MPs and the MPs. Here, I won't be long, we've been talking for a long time and we've actually listened to criticism and remarks and praises and that's normal. I thank you for everything you've said. I just need, not for myself, but for the employees of the Agency and for the sake of the Croatian public to explain two things. In particular, the Agency shall act in accordance with the Competition Protection Act and acts adopted under that Act. Therefore, the procedure implemented by the Agency, its powers are given very concrete and very clear by law. We're out of those frames, no matter what anyone thinks about it, we can't go. So, in that sense, all those who attribute to the Agency some jurisdiction or general role of some market regulator or constitutional court in a small one are simply wrong because we cannot perform such a function, since it is not our business and since the law does not give us that power. Our law is no higher than any other Croatian law. This should therefore be taken into account when it comes to the activities, activities of the Agency and the tasks carried out by this Agency. That's what matters. It is important to point out that the procedure implemented in the Agency is carried out in accordance with the law, the Law on the Protection of Competition, the General Administrative Procedure Act and there is no possibility of action outside the framework of these laws, however much we have seen market phenomena that are neither fair play nor, or are far from any normal market relations. Also, just one sentence about what the Agency actually does. The report doesn't contain our job, it just contains it. In our report, we gave a summary of the biggest cases we've ever had in the Agency, the opinions we've given. Some of these opinions are mentioned here. So we also said, unlike many other bodies, our solutions, our decisions are being published in "The People's Newspaper" and all those interested in the Agency's activity can read our decisions. On the Web, one of the People's Newspapers, for example. On the Agency's website are all Council decisions. Therefore, the Competition Protection Agency. And so the answer to the question on which we are doing it can also be read from this report, from "The People's Newspaper" and from the Agency's website. And also from the daily press, because I think we're pretty good and we're being followed in the daily press. So, we don't rewrite reports, we don't deal with some kind of imaginary business, we do it very specifically. Some of our cases here are mentioned, Ponikve, PZ Autoprint, Distri Press, all done by the Agency. And because of the people who work in it, they simply can't accept that the reports or our work don't show what we're doing. There is a problem with the judiciary, a problem that exists in connection with the jurisdiction of the court. Of course, the problem is that it's bothering all of us, but we've solved others, and we'll solve that problem. So, the report for this year and for next year will certainly be, there will be some progress, as we have already indicated in this year that we have made some progress with regard to relations with regulators or cases that we are dealing with in the Agency. So I'm asking nicely to thank the Agency for the criticism, but we're simply not a body above other bodies. We just can't go beyond the legal framework. As much as our name may indicate that we can deal with anything and everything, but we can't do that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56966	I thank Mrs. Spevec. With this... Correction of an incorrect allegation, isn't it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56967	The courts are the cancer of Croatian society's wounds. For market competition, 4 infringements were issued, 4 fines since '97. until 2006 And that confirms how much capital has been invested in the judiciary. It's like when we found out that after the audit...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56968	Your Honor, Agent Cain, what is the correction to an incorrect assumption?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56969	...two fines and two parolees have been issued.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56970	What is it?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56971	Okay. I wanted something else, but come on.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56972	You haven't corrected any incorrect allegations. Mrs. Spevez didn't say what you were just talking about. In accordance with Article 214, I give you a warning. Thank you. This concludes the debate on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56973	Annual Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency in the field of competition for 2004. I welcome the conclusion: "The Annual Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency in the field of competition for 2004 is accepted. a year." Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 91 for, 4 abstentions, 4 against. The result accepted the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56974	We're moving on to the next one. - Report on the work of the Council for Electronic Media from 25 May 2004 to 30 September 2005. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Law on Electronic Media of the Council on Electronic Media submitted that report. You took the materials into the boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the reports at the session. The government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Here you go. Dr. Dennis Pericic, President of the Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56975	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives and MPs. Let me first thank the vice president for making me a doctor, I'm still a master of science. Let me briefly give you a summary of the report with an emphasis on a few important things. I'll cut it short as much as possible given the facts you're familiar with. Several first months of work, since the constitution of 25 May 2004, the Council has devoted itself to ensuring basic technical, infrastructure and professional preconditions related to the establishment and fundamental organisation of our body, and so that the council can carry out its tasks. During this period, the priority of our action was focused on the burning topic, in particular the call for public tenders for the 30th concessions on which existing radio and television publishers acted, which because of... vacuum were unable to restore their concession on a regular basis, i.e. to enter a competition with potential new bidders. The Council has successfully done the job so that today in Croatia there is no more than 169 publishers with unresolved legal status. We've restored 37 radio concessions, two televisions and awarded 17 new radio and two new TV concessions. The following important activity was the launch of the first public tender for the allocation of funds from the Fund for the Promotion of pluralism and diversity of electronic media. In cooperation with the professional associations of local radio and TV broadcasters, we have launched a kind of campaign to promote the fund and its values, which, especially after the decision on allocations, are recognised at European regulatory levels. I must regret to point out, however, that even 38 radio publishers have not reported in the first place, since the 131st, 93 have since then, which is what we believe will correct already next year. One of the Council's basic activities must be to monitor compliance, i.e. by violating the programming principles and obligations prescribed by the Electronic Media Act. As regards the dedicated consumption of funds from the Fund, the Council continuously implements the obligations under the contract concluded with each individual publisher, which obliges the publishers to submit reports to the Council in a substantive and financial way. The Council, however, also started with polyvalent forms of classical monitoring, i.e. monitoring from observed irregularities, complaints from citizens and questions from institutions, observation of requested recordings, and systematic multi-day recording and analysis of the entire programme. During the period covered by the report, this resulted in two measures, a reminder to one national commercial television and a temporary short-term confiscation of concessions to one local television as well as many written warnings that do not have the power of the legal act but have contributed to the establishment of new standards, i.e. greater compliance of software content with principles and obligations that relate equally to both public television and commercial TV and radio at national level, and to local radio and television stations. Of course, even after the period covered by the control report, the process continues and develops continuously on the basis of the results of the monitoring working group, where the adoption of the measures envisaged by law is combined with the implementation of European regulatory recommendations, i.e. in fostering self-regulation and the recently started but very effective co-regulation process. With special pleasure... concluded, points out the international activities of the councils which are very intense and multiplely stimulating, the more these activities have many previously mentioned projects and processes are recognized, therefore... [[You don't understand.]] and at European level. [[You don't understand.]] Council members and professional staff participated in conferences and other projects organised by the European Commission and the Council of Europe, the OSCE, the Stability Pact. For example, Dr. Vivian Reding, European Commissioner for Media and Information Society, we are taking part in the projects of the working group of the presidents of the European Union's regulatory bodies and countries in the EU membership negotiations process. But perhaps the most important point is that only a few months after the establishment, the council became a full member of the EPRE, a European platform of regulatory authorities, and was then honored by the households of the half-year-old main EPRE congress, which will be held in Dubrovnik in early October. Finally, both at national and European level, the Council is also involved in the latest processes such as the development of digitisation or the development of a new directive here in visual media services to respond to those challenges that demanding regulatory activity in the future will pose. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your attention and for your interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56976	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HSS Club, MP Plasimir Sabati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56977	Mr. Vice President, Mr. President of the Council of Associates, ladies and gentlemen of fellow MPs. So here is the report from the Council for Electronic Media for the first time in this House and at the beginning to say that the Croatian Peasant Party will support this report and we can give a high assessment of the work of the council already in advance. This in itself gives an assessment and that the solution that was already two years ago, so I can say legally, that the establishment of the Council for Electronic Media and the Croatian Telecommunications Agency made sense. In particular, the cooperation between these two bodies is necessary, the agencies are dealing with technical elements of course, and the council has fully covered the gap in the regulatory space. We are not interested here in how many frequencies the agency will clean up, what is the frequency plan, which are the technical parameters of certain frequency areas, or areas of concessions. We're interested in the work of the council. The Council shall, of course, have the legal powers to implement the procedure, award or confiscation of the concession, ensure supervision of the implementation of the programme principles and obligations provisions, and shall carry out monitoring on the basis of the annual plan. That's what it says in this report, among other things. The report is well-structured methodologically and describes the work of the council very thoroughly. We now know thoroughly how many and what publishers are in the Republic of Croatia. We... We can polymize whether there are too many or too few publishers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Whether they have received the highest quality concessions, whether those before the establishment of the Council or the new allocated by this Council, but we believe that this is exactly how the Council will introduce order through the monitoring system in a truly dense and interesting media space. Well, the very fact that we have 169 publishers for such a small country as Croatia says it is an interesting area of activity. So when we say that we hope that the Council will introduce order through the monitoring system, it also applies to those who adhere to the law, those publishers who work in accordance with the programme principles and obligations in the programmes and will certainly justify the concessions granted to them. However, all those who will not abide by it, these legalitys, surely need to care for their survival. And in an effort by the Council to introduce this order, the HSS will support the work of the Council in a warm way. The Croatian Peasant Party particularly welcomes the Council's work through the following. First, all publishers, 169 of them after legalising all those publishers who did not have a concession have, as the President of the Council said, unquestioned legal status. Secondly, a monitoring system has been launched according to, no further doubts, we can conclude, with European standards for which the Council accepts only praise. Thirdly, the allocations to publishers following a tender opened by the Fund to promote pluralism and diversity of electronic media have been allocated in a transparent manner. And each of the publishers can calculate their own number of points, that is, the financial means. In the Media Sector of the European Union, the Commission itself recognises this as a good model for existing members of the European Union. And as a fourth, the Council's constitution and work, as can be seen at the conclusion of this report, is undoubtedly recognised in the European Union where our representatives are involved. In particular, we stress that the monitoring system should be continuously perfected because it was going well. First of all, in the oversight of publishers of national level. This should be systematically continued at regional level or local level, however. And they all need to be covered by the surveillance plan, and the order really needs to be random, and God forbid, dictated for any other reason. It can, of course, and it is desirable for any remarks, any information on the non-compliance of its programming principles and obligations. Absolutely, it is the Council's priority obligation to check the real truth with the surveillance system. However, that this can really be easily checked and we suggest introducing a monthly browser that should be an integral part, so for every month 12 of them, an integral part of this report. Exactly to see which publishers were supervised, which was established and ultimately that we could monitor whether, if there are certain problems, they were removed. It seems to me that there may have been too little in this opening explanation about the competition that was held on 14 June 2005 where the most favourable bidders were selected to carry out monitoring and analysis of the software content of the electronic media publishers. Where you can see, among other things, who were chosen, but you can also see that the contest was cancelled. However, here I would like to say, given that I am still doing a good part of this job, that there have been no such competitions in Croatia. And this is certainly a large school and the Council, and I hope that there will be no more cancellations of the competition, but rather that as soon as possible through agencies or through companies, depending on which elements will be monitored as soon as possible at local or regional level. Here, I tried to point out once again in this brief presentation on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party's Club of Representatives that the establishment of the Council has clearly produced good results, the work of the Council is positively assessed, and we want it to continue with such work. So the HSS will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56978	Thank you very much. For the National Minority Club, Ms. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56979	Dear Vice President, members of the Council. The National Minorities Club analysed the report on the work of the Council for Electronic Media, in particular in the part of the exercise of the right to public information and with the basis of the Council's role in the exercise of the rights of members of national minorities to information in minority languages. The report certainly highlights the importance of working on a large number of inherited, unresolved cases of the former Radio and TV Council, as well as the certainly large work done on tendering and concession award. In April 2000, the Council adopted an operational annual control plan for the implementation of the programme principles provisions and set out the subject of supervision under the provisions of the Law on Electronic Media, the Media Act and the Law on HRT. Although there is a systematic violation of the HRT Act in the exercise of the rights of members of national minorities to inform the minority languages of the Council has not been supervised and has not once alerted HRT of the violation of the law and the absence of a programme in regional and minority languages. The problem of insufficient presence of regional or minority languages on public television and local radio stations in Croatia was also pointed to by the Council of Europe when adopting the report on monitoring the application of the Charter on Regional and Minority Languages, which the Republic of Croatia ratified in '97. A year. On the basis of the Law on Electronic Media, the Fund was set up to raise pluralism and diversity of electronic media, which account for 3% of the fees, as well as the remaining neutral part of the Council's electronic media resources. We were just expecting this Fund to promote and encourage the broadcasting of software content intended for and national minorities. Namely, the Law on Electronic Media found that the publication of software content for the needs of national minorities of interest to the Republic of Croatia, i.e. that the software content of publishers carrying out radio and television activities should in particular promote understanding for members of national minorities, I am talking about Articles 9 and 19. The law, while Article 59 of the same Law explicitly stipulates that funds will encourage the production and publication of software content of electronic media at local and regional level, which are of public interest and are particularly important for national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. It is therefore surprising to decide on how to evaluate applications for the allocation of funds of the Fund for the launch of pluralism and diversity of electronic media by the Council for Electronic Media, which is precisely intended for national minorities with minimum points. We also have observations here on the criteria, namely categories 0 to 75 points is classified as 5 degrees, the funds are very high-quality, but beyond 75 to 140 points, practically just one group, and I think it's a one-off difference from about 103 to 250 thousand, and I think there had to be some kind of inter-category here, or a point and that part, as the range was created from 0 to 75 points, so it obviously took at least 3.4 degrees, or three, four groups to create exactly in that category from 76 to 140 points. We believe that this decision should also be reviewed by the Council and the programmes intended for national minorities, in line with the priorities that such programmes have under the Constitutional Law in the rights of national minorities, should be defined in the Law on HRT and the Law on Electronic Media, and in accordance with the obligations which I have already mentioned regarding the broadcasting of the programme in minority languages, the Republic of Croatia has also taken over the European Charter. I think it would be equally important to conduct a mapping of minorities, or a grouping of minorities, to monitor the concentration of minority or minority language members to determine the coverage of these areas of local radio and TV stations intended for national minorities, because we often have a duplication or overlapping of information, on the other hand, we have no information for certain minorities. So up to those cases that individual local radios report programs, but they don't have funds, or it happens vice versa, that locals prefer to receive funds, they are offered funds, and that they are rejected because they do not want to be broadcast in minority languages. So we also have cases of selective approach where broadcasting for one minority or in the language of one minority is accepted, the other is rejected, although normally it is clear that Croatian laws guarantee equality for all members of minorities. I note that we should finally stop transferring the ball from HRT to the government, from the government to the Council, and that this problem should finally begin to be solved in the sense that we bring the information of minorities to at least the level we had in 1990, i.e. that the representation of minority languages on our television and radios should at least be said as we had until the 1990s. if not better because we really have quality laws that guarantee it. Unfortunately, we will also see now that the report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law and other minority laws in the Parliament that yesterday had the Government that we will truly re-recognise that our laws are very high quality, but that we are in implementation at the very beginning, that is, to repeat, we did not arrive even that part that we had in 1990. And finally, the National Minority Club takes note of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56980	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56981	Dear Vice President, esteemed gentlemen of the Council of Telecommunications and Electronic Media, distinguished gentlemen of the Parliament. It means that I repeat, the basic task of this Council is to grant concessions, confiscation of concessions, supervision of the implementation of programme principles provisions and the implementation of the procedure in breach of the provisions of the Law on Electronic Media. It is therefore regulated by Article 60 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law on electronic media. What is the first thing that should certainly be said that regardless of what this Council for Electronic Media has divided 62 concessions, it means from the radio zone from Buzet to the Maestral radio from Pula, from the Danube radio from Vukovar to the R channel from Rijeka. In those two and a half years this Council has not recorded any affair in awarding the concession, and this should be stressed because it is done in an extremely sensitive business. You will all agree with me, you as little as there is left in this Chamber that it is an extremely delicate job, that there is an extraordinary interest in politics above all, economically too. This work dealing with the Council of Electronic Media is subject to a permanent court of both domestic and international public, diplomatic, non-governmental, such or such associations, but it should be acknowledged that in the past two and a half years we have not witnessed any affair. If we were Croatian media, we'd be talking about it and that's good. So the Council has done its job well, and the Government is calling the Council, giving some conditional opinions, and it is also likely to be frustrated about the role the Council plays, the correct roles with regard to Croatian-radiotelevision. Of these 62 concessions 58 is a radio concession, 4 TV concessions. Television is Slavonia TV and Baranja channel RI, Dubrovnik TV, Sibenik TV, and once again no one has called the council in awarding concessions, which is almost incredible when we know what interest there is, or the only controversy that has actually been run by the council was between them and Mr Malnar from OTV and we have no reason to repeat ourselves as well. On this trail, it would probably be good for Croatian Radio Television to drop the lawsuit against the journalist "Evening List" of Mr Dujmovic because it is certain that if Croatian Radio Television were to engage in this in the end or eventually it will not be well received either by the local or foreign audience. The Council sees that it has a decent fee, which is 3% of the total funds collected on behalf of the fee. If the TV fee is somewhere around 800 million kuna means eight times three, it is about 24 million but I don't mention it because of the dispute the council has had in its time with Croatian Radio Television, but that perhaps this is how the Parliament would ask when, according to pre-election promises from HDZ, HRT's subscriptions will be released. The truth is, part of these 24 million kuna funds whether 23, 24 or 25, it doesn't matter, it goes to foster pluralism of the media and public words and it is certainly a commendable engagement of this council because, for example, 253 thousand 870 kuna from my constituency gets Radio Istria from Pazin, absolutely fine, and Primorski Radio from Rijeka, 103 thousand 870 kuna gets Radio Labin, Radio Zone Buzet, Radio Rovinj, 53 thousand 870 kuna gets... Radio Jadranka Mali Losinj and Radio Island Krk, 897 thousand and 58 kuna gets channel RI, 247 thousand and 58 kuna gets NIT from Pazin, etc., Now we can certainly talk here when we talk about these radio stations, TV, etc. and about the political profiling of some of these radios but I don't mind funding them as well as those that don't receive any funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, they are obliged to pay the council 0.5% of the total annual gross income, which is certainly not small money and what should be considered in some way. It may be better to take, I don't know or increase the HRT's separation of 0.2 or 0.3% because there was a monopoly on the subscription anyway than to that poor woman who lives from sponsors or from elections to elections to take those 0.5% without returning anything from them. And speaking of these choices, each of these owners or journalists, the editor of some such media clearly votes in the elections as he wishes, but I think they should not appear on election lists. It's just not fair. However, if there were any in the future, their councils would, so those radio houses should be denied television support. Why? For the simple reason, in this case, that television station is no longer independent or cannot be independent and these funds go to encourage pluralism, and then we believe that this should be distributed in a fair way and that no one should abuse them. It is certain that no one should even consider banning journalists from political engagement like those who work in customs, soldiers, cops, judges, state lawyers. That certainly doesn't. But gentlemen, either be a journalist or be a politician. It's just one principle that in some ways those who work in those television or I don't know what to call them radio houses. You can't spit on someone, run a campaign for this or that political option, mine or some third, and claim you're independent, go to the polls, and get paid by that political engagement of yours. It's either simple or it's not about independence. Why am I saying that? Because such practice is particularly expressed in Istria where almost all media and those financed by the council from Radio Labin to the like in Rovinj and are politically engaged. I'm not advocating to deny them compensation, God forbid, they should get it because otherwise I can't do business, but it's not fair that way and I think this is the right place to talk about it, too. In one word, independence is important and not that someone now appears to me on certain political lists, either my party or others. That's what I was gonna say. It means that if the Council gives money to promote pluralism indirectly, it means that money is supported by media that perform in the elections through their leading people, owners, editors, journalists, etc. calls into question pluralism in the Republic of Croatia. In my court, it's one small grudge. It's not the role of this council, it's not their job. This can't finally be the intensity of the law that we're talking about here today. And so many council gentlemen, take care of it, point out this problem to the editors, owners that they must hang on to their objectivity and political fair play to be available to everyone and not to engage politically. So, if you engage, there is no money, if you are unengaged or available to everyone, then we will follow you correctly in all possible ways. I'll say it one more time. This IDS report absolutely supports it. We vote yes. We see that there was no affair like the one from 96 when it threatened to shut down the frequency or subtract that frequency of Radio 101 when nearly 100,000 or over 100,000 Zagrebans went out to Ban Jelačić Square to defend the survival of that medium, which apparently did not like the authorities at that time, as some other media did not have to like this government or the current opposition. And Mr. Jarnjak, I would like to admit that, at that point, he certainly played an extremely significant, important and particularly positive role. Since 1996 or 1997, when this happened, don't take my word for it for 10 years, Croatia is clearly democratisation in these 10 years. Something similar today is not possible and this largely testifies that Croatia is also changing. Everyone means when we talk about this report, let them get a chance to work, let them get a concession unless clearly they come up with an exclusive policy towards the nation, according to religion, according to some minority and so on, but once again I will say money shouldn't get those who through that media and politically engage in one, second or third option. Because that doesn't encourage pluralism. So for the end, once again we welcome this report, we vote yes. We do not accept him as representatives of minorities. We absolutely support him, and above all, it is necessary to welcome the fact that in the past two and a half years, the Council has not had one affair if we exclude controversy with Mr. Malnar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56982	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Frano Piploić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56983	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, and colleagues from Kajin, it seems to me that several mistakes have been made. I would stress the most important one where he talks about not giving funds to those who are politically engaged. This is not about paying any political campaign or payment, giving funds to finance the programme. These are the means that drive the variety of content. So cultural, religious, national and other, and so on, not for funding the programme or promoting a political campaign.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56984	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Milan Meden. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56985	Dear Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Council, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Electronic media in Croatia means television and radio over the past few years have experienced really major changes. On the way to an independent public broadcast in order to protect journalists from commercialisation and political pressures should continue with reforms. The establishment of the main national regulatory body for the radio and television broadcasting of the Electronic Media Council in 2003 strengthened the state regulatory system. In April of the following year, the Croatian Parliament appointed members of the Council in 2004 and, after the establishment of the meetings, the Council officially became the first independent and independent regulatory body in the field of electronic media in Croatia. In fact, this is the act of confirming the Croatian Parliament and the Government to continue their activities in the development of media policy that contributes to the preservation of the independence of editorial policies of electronic media publishers. After the constitution of the Council as we have today had the opportunity to hear from other representatives of clubs one of the first jobs to be taken over from the previous Radio and Television Council was a public tender for the legalisation of expired concessions, so I stress the expired concessions not new and the award of several new concessions. In fact, the Council has avoided a legal vacuum and has administratively legalised the existing concessions of private radio and television. During 2005, they discuss and compete for several new urban and county concessions. However, some areas of concession have not actually been reported by publishers in some areas. Thus, the concessions failed or were returned to the State again. This is actually proof that the Croatian electronic media market is already in the saturation phase, i.e. commercial sustainability in smaller environments is questionable. For example, in Pakrac, Chabra, Obrovci, Benkovci, Lastovo and so on. We are also faced with the fact that many local publishers so radio and television are operating on the edge of economic viability or are actually under bankruptcy. Because some local powermakers, as Mr. Cain said here, feel that their concession is their media, in fact a guarantee of current and future power and a sense of programming is lost. Then they find solutions to resuscitate losses through various suspicious capitalisations that all but economic character will do. At that time, the transparency of ownership mostly of private television becomes insufficient. This was also the main finding of the report for Croatia as part of the publication "Television in Europe", legislation, public policy, independence set up as an observation in Zagreb on 2 December 2005. The purpose of the existence of local media is primarily to produce a programme of local, informative and cultural educational character. Because of financial inability but also ignorance, such local media is turning to cheap Latin American soaps and suspicious source and quality programs. In fact, it is up to the Council to develop a strategy for future empowerment of private electronic media publishing in Croatia. Perhaps one of the possible solutions would be to round up the concession area beyond the borders of a city or concession. In fact, the Council's report describes the role of the Fund to promote pluralism and diversity of media. Just to remind ourselves, in fact, of the Law on Electronic Media that came into force in September 2003, Articles 56 and 57 therefore provide for the establishment of a Fund to promote pluralism and diversity of electronic media. By virtue of the Law on HRT, Article 54, paragraph 1. HRT is required to pay 3% of the total funds collected on a monthly basis in the name of the tax. That provision was aimed at modelling developed European countries to allow the smooth development of electronic local and regular media and in fact does not speak anywhere about political conformity as Mr Cain said in any of these media. The Council decided on the allocation of funds on 26 August, so for two years after the law came into force, but we can still say that this is the day when the first financial incentives were reached in a state of stimulating the pluralism of electronic media. The Ministry of Culture has actually brought a rule about... The implementation of a public tender for the allocation of funds of this Fund and in Article 2 gave precise criteria to discuss the exercise of citizens' rights to public information, national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, encouraging specific attention to the promotion of specific programmes in the area of special public concern. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Encourage cultural creation, develop education, science and art, encourage employment of highly educated workers and so on. Therefore, the role of the Council in this regard was merely to determine the points of certain criteria. For example, for the exercise of citizens' right to public information according to their criteria, it was possible to get 5 or 35 points and not to list all other criteria now. The report on the discussion of the Media Information and Information Committee notes that the debate points to the problem of the criteria for the distribution of the Fund because it does not show which elements affect the number of points in each area. So this is emphasized by the parent committee. This means, in fact, that you may not see from that report when and under what conditions a single publisher has received 5 and 35 points. There are also known complaints from many dissatisfaction publishers who, after the award announcement, could not get an insight into actually transparent explanations about the score of individual criteria. By introducing the Council's report, although as an unprofessional person in this segment, I noticed the following. If it is known that the price of production of the radio programme is the same in Baranja in Zagreb and in Rijeka and Istria, and if we know that the price of production of the television programme is equal in Vinkovci, Osijek, Zagreb or Pula, then I believe that this distribution should actually be supported more by the media broadcasting in the area than the special state care. We all know that they operate under considerably more difficult economic conditions and with a significantly smaller number of advertisers. Given the criteria and allocations of funds from the fund, an uninformed acquaintance of Croatian reality would say that Zagreb, Rijeka and Pula are the area of special state care, while Vukovar, Brod, Slavonski Brod and Vinkovci are actually the strongest economic centres of Croatia. That's what they say, which means they show the funds that have been allocated to the Council by decision. I note in particular that the size of the concession coverage is not a benchmark for the score. So, is the publisher in Zagreb or perhaps in Rijeka or Vinkovci, so it's not with that point of view, these criteria do not matter. So the size of the city has nothing to do with the area of coverage, i.e. the distribution of funds from the fund. It was also a bit vague for me personally, for example, that among the first 15 publishers of radio stations they received, means the most category, 253 thousand kuna, there are as many as 5 radio stations from Zagreb, 4 stations from nearby Zagreb, and only 2 stations that are active, which they carry out in areas of special state care. It's Radio Vukovar and Radio Banovina. The rest of you, unfortunately, nothing. Then I ask myself how it's possible that the first four television stations that got the most, so 897 thousand kunas don't have a single television in the field of special state care. In the first place are Pula Television, which covers the city of Pula. Next, the Rijeka TV that back then covered the city, today I think it covers the county. Varazdinska, which covers the County of Varazdinska and TV Sljeme from Zagreb, which covers the city of Zagreb. I also want to point out that, or I don't want to, I want to point out that these TVs really might deserve to be favorites. But I notice the fact. It is actually the day when, and when these funds were allocated, Sljema or Z1, as popularly called, which is here in the first group, started broadcasting in August of that same year, and anyone who was distributed should still think whether the youngest TV in Croatia, in fact, had yet to be proved through business and only then put it in the highest category. It really seems to me that these 20 points for encouraging special programs may not be enough, or perhaps they are not the most honest ones. TV Vinkovci, as well as TV Slavonia and Baranja from Osijek, work safely in significantly more difficult economic conditions than TV from Istria, Rijeka or Zagreb. If we look at the other criteria, for example. in the second group is Vinkovačka TV, which has a county concession. She got $350,000 less. He works in Vukovar-Srijem County, has half a million potential viewers, works five hours of his own programme, rich cultural content, and they even told me he supports minorities. But really, so this transparent one I'd say by point she fell into second category. Then this transparency of points is really questionable. Then they may actually be favorites of those televisions that are engaged in buying some Argentine or maybe Mexican soap opera, or they are favorites of those who broadcast some semi-pornographic content, as Mr. Cain said it was still an incentive of expression. I believe that these are sufficiently convincing arguments that, on the occasion of the next distribution, there must be another way to think, when the most resources still need to be distributed to radio and television stations that may be operating under difficult conditions and in the area of special state care. Of course, these TVs meet other criteria so that they produce their own information and cultural programme. The report for Croatia, as part of a television publication in Europe, calls on the Council of Electronic Media to set up a monitoring department for the purpose of monitoring, for the sake of monitoring, for the sake of supervision, by respecting the provisions of the concession contract by the publishers of the electronic media. In the past six months, the Council has actually started monitoring, but it should be implemented, I believe, quality even on a weekly or daily basis. This was also an observation by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. Which is why, for example, This is still very important? In Article 19, paragraph 8 is replaced by the following: The Law on Electronic Media for whose implementation is and may be a violation of the relevant Council, so that article states: "The bodies of the state administration as well as other users of the state budget owe 15% of the annual amount intended to promote their products, services or activities to spend on advertising in programmes of regional and local electronic media.". It is evident that most users of the state budget are avoiding this obligation. And it's not rare to see those advertisers actually doing their promotion only on the media of state concessions. With those rare ones that are actually... they meet this obligation only in the Zagreb area. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, it should be a very important role for this Council. To monitor it daily to properly distribute these funds. In its report, the Croatian government also made comments that the report does not contain plans to develop the Council's professional services, which is of paramount importance for the implementation of the commitments undertaken in the process of entering Europe. I don't want to say that the Council hasn't been properly established. So it's been working for about two years, but it's one enough period when every young management, so every firm can know exactly what direction to strategically develop further their professional services. Therefore, the HDZ Club takes note and this report states that the report needs to be completed precisely on the administrative strengthening of the Council and the development of all necessary services in order to ensure quality implementation of the Electronic Media Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56986	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Antun Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56987	Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the Council. The first thing I want to say is that I am extremely pleased that on behalf of the SDP Club, I can join all those who have actually unanimously supported the basics and with the remarks of course the report of this Council. That means the law worked. This means that, of course, with possible remarks that we will all have, which are likely to be easily explained, which we have heard here from the members of the Council, since the report does not contain full assessments and full to put forward the reasons for all the elements of decision-making in different segments. So, in addition to these remarks, we too can join in, therefore, supporting and accepting this report. And of course I'm not thinking about its particular elements, but actually its measure. All that is created first is small so it grows, so so this council is actually the first regulatory body to come after actually no similar bodies exist or after... bodies that were quite different as the Radio and Television Council and which actually put order into it, or at least to say the serious order in this area, which had previously been in complete confusion. [[You don't understand.]] Here it was well pointed out, and I also gladly join it, that the Council did not follow any controversy that would in some way question his work itself, there could have been different remarks as they would probably be here, but really not. And remember that even such issues as ownership issues in certain media were not regulated before. Some electronic media have operated in such a way that through a marketing contract they have been tied to unknown owners, etc. etc. The creation, i.e. the launch of the eyewitnesses, the establishment of ownership, the launch and presentation of the programming basis, are indeed democratic achievements which this law, and then this council in its initial work, legitimateize as a function of a highly developed and positive and democratic media legislation, and it is no wonder that in this respect and from the point of view of those who are in Europe in some way caring for such laws and for such a practice the council also receives positive assessments, and which is particularly confirmed in its activities on the international agenda. What is crucial in my opinion and in our opinion from this debate is that the council works in one specific space, it works for all electronic media, but it works for all electronic media like in those parts where every electronic medium, whether commercial, private or public, is actually a public medium. Television and radio can be private, and it's also public. It is public in all the elements in which it is used to put it, with one public good, public resource and is intended for public information content. It's an extremely important area, an area where the council has to choose the action of one, and so it has chosen which is not the action of some to say morally or politically, or I don't know what other police are, but is actually the implementation of the law itself. The nuance that this council has positively taken towards such opportunities that are often challenging, is particularly important when we remember what some of the councils of similar types have taken over in some other media, we don't have it here. It's impressive the volume of conclusions the council has made. So 93 users received funds from the fund plus 17 televisions, so 62 concessions were distributed, etc. etc. The whole building gets without saying radical earthquakes that most often relate to media legislation and media action, is really something that deserves compliments. But it won't be like saying a finished thing. This is actually a report that we support because it's an initial and first report. In the second report, it will probably be necessary to take that step that we have heard here from several participants of this debate, and as regards primarily the development of monitoring, the determination of the dedicated spending of funds from monitoring, and what is under the great questionnaire, where we will have to get such reports, which we have been very hoping for when we have laid down the law, and especially the fund, which is how it is, what are the effects on the number of journalists employed. You know that especially on smaller radio stations, it actually works without employees of journalists or is done from part-time work. We were interested, and so it was continued, that... The fund’s funds also open up a number of jobs and so it has been calculated that it is possible to expect over a year about 600-700 new jobs. [[You don't understand.]] I would like to say that in the next report we have that kind of information, since this House is also interested in one of the most important segments of promotion of activity, of journalistic activity, and that is why I am particularly pleased, I hope that this is in accordance with the rule, which has been allocated and special means. I didn't question whether it was in accordance with the rule book, because I really liked it, which is that the funds were allocated to perfect journalists at the height of 250,000 kuna. It is certainly something that promotes media pluralism, therefore it is also something that is needed and useful. I am a fund that has therefore worked and that may yet be a very significant insurance of funds, which are now before I say to the court that it will end and what, is a powerful means not of these or those policies but of actually promoting pluralism of the media as described and now I would especially ask that those who have a dilemma about what and how regulatory bodies serve. The law was passed in 2003, but the council, this council proposed to this Parliament in 2004. I am pleased that, as a representative of the opposition, I can underline that we do not notice that this council, which has not been set up by some previous government, but is under some political pressure, was that this would have been seen, which has not been noticed, so I call on all those who think that such councils can only be left or right, black or white, to take a good look at their positions when they question one serious civilization, one serious civilizational achievement, and these are the media legislation of the Republic of Croatia. I will warn that if something here can occur just as a problem, as a problem for all of us, and this is also for the opposition and for the parties in power, or for the coalition in power, and that is the idea that this council by analogy might have to choose in some different way, and not the way it was proposed, and that means from the government to the Parliament and what we support. Because questions are being asked whether the HRT Council will be re-elected in a way that has been compromised once before, those who propose it should be aware that it will automatically withdraw that this council will be elected in this same way, because there is no principleal difference that then this council is chosen in this way, and we will create crises where we need them the least, but sometimes political blindness can lead us to such crises. As for the report itself in his, let me put it this way, a form in which the day would prefer perhaps a little more precise things. We noticed some of these things, and we also had some remarks on the Council, or on the Committee for, on the board of directors. But since that thing is mentioned here, I have to mention it again and again here. This Council did not act in any legal vacuum because it would be very bad if it remained undetected and left without notice. The legal vacuum is gone, it's been built up for a little longer than it should have been, so these are the difficulties of a working vacuum. But Article 74 of the existing Law directly states that until the constitution of this Council, all its affairs are carried out, therefore, by the Council for Labour and Television. Therefore, there is no legal vacuum. Let's not have to ourselves, so to speak, to open up potential or possible problems in non-accurate formulations. I don't agree with any of the remarks that were made here. Especially those who in some way wanted to reevaluate or question each other, all based on the territorial distribution of certain radio stations or television stations. The Council will certainly never be able to allocate funds for programmes based on any other criteria other than the requirements themselves, except to say so the programmes offered for valorisation. And in that respect, they also have their own price list. I hope that the criteria that are mentioned here are only a bug, they are only tax-listed and simultaneously and solid criteria for the measurement of decision-making. But here's an idea that might be considered, which is that to remove any confusion in the work of the Council or possible doubts we don't have at this point. Indeed, it is accompanied by some periodic report, whether from a month or if quarterly, etc. That decision-making beam that is related to the means, which is therefore related to decisions, and in the extreme line and to monitoring because it will be one of the very important instruments for understanding the position of the media and for understanding the seriousness of the position of the media. And also instruments for the development of democracy, which is one of the basic assumptions of the media. So, I think the Council has confirmed its legitimacy, not just the legality. I think after these first reports, especially in relation to and with the government's recommendation, and these specific recommendations that have been heard here, the following reports will be more complete, that they will cover more elements. Well, at the end of the line and those like the total sums of the funds that are divorced here per item, but not given in total. Or, for example, which is also a legal obligation, but there's no letter about it. It may not be in the focus of interest, it is an issue of electronic publications that the Council should also be concerned about. But it wasn't touched, as we warned, on this Council. Therefore, in this regard, the Council's growing reports and requests for these reports will be increasingly stringent. What I'm saying is, on behalf of the SDP, I'm very pleased to announce. This is our support for this report by the Council on Electronic Media. And of course, in this respect, with the remarks that we have said we will vote on and with the warnings that we have put forward, we hope that it will be understood especially when it comes to the elections of the Council and their independent function and the seriousness of this Parliament towards, I say, the qualifications of any council's political work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56988	Thank you very much. We're moving on to a ten-minute hearing. The first is Mr. Representative Miroslav Korenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56989	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council for Electronic Media. In this brief address, however, I would like to warn you of a few things that this report does not contain, and in my deep conviction it should be. We know for ourselves, this has been determined from the current course of the debate that the Fund for the Encouragement of pluralism and diversity of electronic media not only has significant financial resources but it can be and certainly will be a significant driver for the development of certain electronic media. That is why I personally think it would be good, however, if we had already received information in this report that some publishing house received a certain amount of money. We've got a sumptuous amount of that money, but what I do as a policy person is still most interested in, it's the right to public information. It is likely that all in their programmes have made a very significant part of the money by searching for and substrating public information programmes. I'm afraid, and that tells me my life, but also the experience of what I practically experience every day when I listen locally or watch local media. Yes, unfortunately, local media can certainly be cheerleading. So it has no right to pluralism, no duality of information, but it is exclusively that one truth and it usually and most often comes to local authorities. That is why I would ask that the Council go in some way to either make public or give instructions that will go for all local media. When I say local media, I mean all those other than Croatian public television, Croatian broadcasting as a public institution. So, the criteria for publishing certain information. We at local levels know very well that, for example, we do not list names, but that the local television house to one political party, one political option comes to a press conference and explains it extensively and strongly, gives interviews to all others. The second especially if it is in opposition, there is not a word about it or that kind of truth, or that possibility of reaching a wider audience circle, the listener simply does not come. I would also warn of what is happening in local media that outside of the local, outside the campaign, means when we have a campaign for local elections or parliamentary elections, that one part of the local media does not want to receive or have some kind of show that has been paid, some political party. Any left or right. While someone else in the same area takes it. I think that the same instructions should have unique criteria in the whole of Croatia, whether or not they can do something over a certain period of time. What concerns me especially, given that we want pluralism, we want as much information as possible for our citizens of different types, which is also worrying on one side, but also interesting that no one has reported to the competition for individual concessions for radio concessions. We are aware that, without the help of this Fund, one part of the local media, especially in areas of special state concern in this economic situation in the Republic of Croatia, simply cannot survive. I therefore suggest that we should particularly check in the future, this is unusual for us, too, if they match ownership structures in certain media legal provisions. I know a few examples until the founding of this Council, it simply didn't suit, that often the owners were also persons who worked in competitive media, so there was conflict of interest and everything else. On the other hand, I'd like to ask that monitoring be given more attention than it's ever been before. The lower the level, the more I think we go to the province the less radio station we usually have local radio stations that depend on or are on one, two people... and it would be very important for monitoring to pay particular attention to whether the programme schemes with which concessions were obtained are actually implemented. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] Very often not. When you listen to local radio stations except for that music of the lowest quality often times the news that is usually read from newspapers has nothing to do with it and I think it would be very significant to raise the quality of the program, but beyond that, the culture of our citizens to pay special attention to it. It seems to me that we have and here I support the Council for Electronic Media to pay particular attention to advertising that goes on electronic media. We know about the conflict of public television with especially these private televisions about the number of minutes of commercials and everything else, quality monitoring will get us to the truth. However, what I would especially point out seems to me that on page 14 of the Reports on this subject something is said, an example of one of our televisions that operate at national level, for example I as an bitter non-smoking in one of these reality shows and everything else has become more common, I have also read that the Council has responded to such a thing, smoking, drinking alcohol, everything else, but this seems to be a shot in the blank, not enough warning, but it seems to me that it will take over the next period and more to go to what our positive legal regulations are taking and that respects it more or less, but the laws are for them to be respected. That is why I cannot understand and warn about what our Committee on the Rights of National Minorities has warned, which is that certain local radio stations do not want to broadcast programmes intended for national minorities. I think that this is devastating for all of us, if the Government is also in its opinion that national and our Constitution ultimately says that national minorities have their special importance for the Republic of Croatia, it is not clear to me, and I ask, here I hope now that we will get, perhaps not in this Report, but in the next reports, the opinion of the Council for Electronic Media that or run maybe towards the ministries and to the Government that such houses are simply taken away from concessions, because someone can't want pluralism, they don't have to get money, but it seems to me that in the programming schemes too it should be one of the conditions for concessions, that such things don't happen anymore, because Croatia wants to be modern and increasingly modern European state. But if we don't accept it as such, I'm afraid we're going in the wrong direction. On the other hand, it seems to me that oftentimestimestimestimestimestimestimestimestimestimestimestimestimestimestimesreact, especially thoseshows when it comes to live, when listeners come to a hate speech when they probably don't get along with the leaders of such shows, when there's a hate speech, protest, and everything that's certainly not meant to happen on such public media. So I am personally giving support to this report, I hope that the Council will go beyond now and financially, but also to all its resources to develop monitoring and especially monitoring whether or not programming schemes are respected both local radio stations and all other media and emphasis, of course, on what is for the right of national minorities and on quality and public information, because regardless of what some medium is private, it is nevertheless publicising the rules of the game that should then be equal to everything. On one we will give everything, nothing at all, and at the same time, and hopefully in the next report will be particularly related to these funds that are given from the fund, that the emphasis will be placed on whether or not these rules are respected because then it seems to me that we can write the best quality, best program, but its execution and the first time we can accept it when you first go to the competition that someone, that and the foundation be the quality of the programme itself. The following competitions that will go as an integral part should also have the execution of existing programs for which money has been obtained, not that someone often gets us money for something on paper, and the paper itself suffers everything, writes one thing, ultimately does something completely different from pluralism, opinion and supervision in this society will be nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56990	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Frano Piploic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56991	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, colleagues from the Koreans have been robbed and a few inaccuracies, I think they really need to be corrected. The first is the inaccuracy that local radio stations are cheerleading, so it's simply incorrect. I've been a long time. ... You said cheerleaders were set up, so I wrote it down here. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The local media, the status, the funding is very complicated, it's not solved, so these people are fighting a battle for their naked life and they can't be accused if someone brings a show, and they won't pay it so that he's broadcasting it now, he just has to live on something. Another inaccuracy is related to national minority programmes. I know that many local radio stations have programmes for national minorities, if this time there have been some remarks that above all can stand in relation to not being reported in time, therefore some have not received funds, but many local radio stations have especially where there are national minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56992	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56993	It seems to me that Article 209 of our Rules of Procedure was injured because I never once mentioned the name of any media, I said one, so you did not correct my claim, but you want to correct my opinion. In addition, I also quoted what our Committee on National Minorities wrote in its report, so it certainly stands as such, and I asked for the Council's interpretation, not the Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56994	At 18 and 28, it's past 10 minutes' notice time. It is up to Madam Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. She's gone. It's Mr. Nenad Stazic's turn. Here you go. He's giving up. Thank you. Then, Mr. Frano Piplojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56995	Here I have answered the word first of all to support the colleagues who made this report, for the first time we have in the Croatian Parliament this type of report from this Council. If there are also comments, they probably did not come as a fruit of some intention but probably the fruit of what was long awaited by these means themselves. It has been said here that it has long waited for this part of the law to function and so far it has not been able to function because Croatian television actually held those funds and could not be launched without the funds simply. Now, there's been a lot of funding. Many have also likely given up on the intention of ever being able to run for part of their programmes in this fund, and some of their dissatisfaction is likely to result in a long wait. I'll put an emphasis in your discussion on two things. So the first thing is these assets that are divided here, they really meant life for many radio stations. I said just before in my correction of the incorrect assumption that the issue of funding local media, first of all I think electronic media is one of the major problems in local environments, markets are not developed and this kind of incentive is welcome. And you just need to make these incentives clear in time and that all those who want to enrich the software means content in their program so that they can prepare themselves in time. Clearly, there was a comment in the press on such a distribution. I've been informed that many simply haven't answered and that even gentlemen from our council have called some radio stations to say that they didn't turn out to be favored. However, the fact here is that the remarks that colleagues here pointed out in their discussions that part of the electronic media around Zagreb and Zagreb received significant incentives. This has caused some to react sharply in the media. I think that a lesson should be learned from this and removed as much as possible from Zagreb as possible because the problem of other parts of Croatia, especially those parts that were affected by the war where the economy was destroyed, deserve certainly more support than those media in Zagreb and around the Zagreb area. Furthermore, it is necessary by my judgment far more emphasis when it comes to Council work put on self-monitoring content. In all of our media, it means from some state level to local level you have content to react to occasionally, especially to the content where appropriate discrimination and intolerance are carried out on a religious, national, sexual, racial basis, especially the content where children are placed, especially when it comes to advertising where children are placed in some negative contexts, where children's rights are, for example, injured, etc. I think that this function of the council monitoring the content occasionally would be of great importance to correct such anomalies that we occasionally have in our programs. By the way, as far as I'm concerned, I'm in favour of giving full support to the council and this report. And one more thing at the end. I think that, in particular, it should be part of the budget and support for programmes that go towards connecting certain local media, which go, for example, in the production of content in one part of a local community and they can actually be exchanged in some way with other local media. This affects one integration of Croatia. And what's been said about national minority programmes, I don't think it's just enough to announce a media competition. I think we should also refer memos to the meaning of ethnic communities and their associations that they actually know, that then they in their local environment, on local radio, are actually going to be the ones to encourage such content to go because it can happen that one local medium simply has no interest if there are no funds and there are not enough people who are skilled in certain such areas, do not know first of all language, do not know customs etc. That is why I think it would be good to always send a letter to national minorities, to their communities to take care of it. And what my colleague Korenika mentioned, I think it would be really good in the next report to make an account to see which programs were supported and how they were actually realized. Not to be some big fairy tales and stories, but in short lines, there's just information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56996	Thank you very much. We have one correction, Mr. Milan Madden. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56997	Corrects the quote of a respected representative when he said that the incentive fund... and the diversity of electronic media could not begin because Croatian radio-television did not pay the necessary money. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's actually incorrect. Croatian television did not pay money to the fund because no regulation and criteria were drawn up by the council just before the call for a public tender. Actually, that's the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56998	Thank you. Replica Mr. Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u56999	Thank you very much. Here, now's my chance to sort of explain it one more time and maybe polymize about some things, but the fact is, I said and I'm behind it, some local media. I didn't say any names but the fact that unfortunately still from one part of our media is especially the lower the level developed is this servant's attitude towards power. I'm not talking to the state. I'm talking to the local authorities. And the fact is that I am a witness of such, and I have asked that the council in this monitoring in some way to stress on such things, especially those who have reported to the fund on a tender for money, to improve public information or the right to information. I suppose those who receive money from the fund to improve information rights should take care of balanced information. Therefore, give the possibility to both left and right, and the middle side to express its opinion. It can't happen as it happens on a local TV station from the city where I come from that county assembly only hears what the government says. I'm sorry, that's not public information. It's misinformation because you should hear the other side. And you got money from this fund, too. Therefore, we should work on that. The other thing is that we have a lot of local especially radio houses that they have, they don't have journalists because they usually have music-playing leaders, they chat easily with their listeners, and they usually read the news from newspapers and give it as their own. That's why there are some services that still have some quality news coming in, especially local radio stations have also been given the opportunity to give local news and I assume that in their programming schemes they're doing something like that, and that's why they got a concession for a particular area. Unfortunately, they do not fulfil the task for which they received the concession.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u57000	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Piploic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u57001	A colleague of Korenik, this fund does not share for the total information for the transfer of the county congregations. These are projects, let's say, if it's about Nikola Tesla that we're going to do a series of shows. Please, that's the project that's going to be broadcast on the team and on those radio stations and it's being paid. You don't pay for the transfer of county... One specific project is being paid. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Second, you're, you're talking to some local media. You can't talk like that in general. We're here in the Parliament. You have to say it specifically: one, that and that. Because he's getting laid on a lot of other local media. I know what the code is, in such media, and they deserve far more attention and respect than we often give them.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u57002	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u57003	Mr. Vice President, colleagues, gentlemen of the Council for Electronic Media, and here is the introduction of the report, which I must quote, however: "The Council for Electronic Media has assumed the honorable but demanding role of the first independent and independent regulatory body in the field of electronic media. And he thinks that's what their whole job is about. That the Council's work would not be easy to take care of the predecessors leaving them with a large number of pending cases. A number of public procurements for the expired and new concessions have resolved legal ambiguities and covered the ether gaps. In view of the self-secret work of uninteresting media, the Council is well mentioned only in the known avoidance of HRT to pay an obligation of 24 million kuna in favour of the Pluralism Fund and the diversity of electronic media in accordance with Article 54. The law on Croatian broadcasting. That is, 3% of the monthly collected funds in the name of the fee. Law enforcement helped the HRT administration cover up business losses and who are the losers? Unfortunately, they lost small electronic media because these 24 million kunas remained a big monopoliest brother. And if the Fund to encourage pluralism and diversity of electronic media is left without that money, it will be, because it's actually left without that money, so there's less money to exercise the right to public information. Less for national minority programmes in Croatia, less encouraging specific programmes in areas of particular national interest. Less to encourage cultural creation, development, education, science and art and less to employ highly educated professionals in electronic media at local and regional level. So activities financed. We noticed that Croatian television, unlike radio, used those 24 retained millions to improve the information program. The Council has a strong obligation to ensure supervision of the implementation of the programme principles and obligations provisions. It's normal, unfortunately, that there's less monitoring that non-restraints will be more. The systematic violation of the provisions should certainly not be tolerated. I believe that the Council will continue to carry out its great obligations with honor and professionalness. And I see a colleague of the Koreans saying that some radio stations won't broadcast party videos before the election that I didn't really hear. But finally why pay when our strongest medium for your party does it from election to election for free?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u57004	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Walter Poropat's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u57005	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable President of the Council for Electronic Media, the Honorable Members of the Council. The first constitutive session of the Electronic Media Council was held on 25 May 2004 and in June of that year the Council was registered as an independent legal person. The members of the Council, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Electronic Media, entered into a working relationship and thus began their work. So today we are discussing a report on the work of the Council for Electronic Media in the period from 25 May 2004 to 30 September 2005 and 16 months respectively. In these 16 months, the Council held 59 sessions, on average 3.7 sessions a month or practically every week, a session that I think is very well. If we know that in accordance with Article 60. The electronic media law of the Council shall implement the concession procedure. It shall make a decision on the withdrawal of concessions, shall be conducted by the register of electronic media publishers, shall ensure that the implementing provisions on programme principles and obligations are implemented, and shall adopt an annual monitoring plan or monitoring. It shall carry out a procedure to determine the non-compliance or breach of the provisions of the Law on Electronic Media, to consider complaints against the handling of publishers, to report to the competent authorities, then we can tell that the Council, at the beginning of its work, faced with the consequences of a certain gap in the regulatory space. Which in the first row resulted in the inheritance of a large number of pending cases. Despite the problems encountered after the formation of the Electronic Media Council, the same problems were resolved very quickly and the public tender legalised the status of concessions which were acquired, or by publishers, to which contracts had expired. Since when there is almost no more publishers in Croatia with unresolved legal status. The implementation of various forms of monitoring has also begun with consideration of the infringement of the advertising provisions. However, what I consider to be a special success of this Council is that, as one of its main objectives, it has promoted awareness of self-regulation. Self-regulatory is among other things one of the backbones of the so-called. new directives on television without borders and overall European legislation. Of course, these Council moves did not go undetected in the European Union, but the entry into force of the European Regulatory Authority's Congress in Croatia has actually been confirmed for its well-done work. However, not only do praises and well - done work, what colleagues from both the position and the opposition have shown in some examples is that some local media are taking advantage of insufficient control of what they are dealing with. First of all, local news and on the other hand, it is true that some media at local level are particularly leading cheerleading policies. Finally, and finally the report on the work of the Council for Electronic Media in the period from 25 May 2004 to 30 September 2005, I think we should support and we at the IDS Club will do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u57006	Thank you very much. And as last in an individual debate, Mrs. Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u57007	Thank you. Dear Mr Vice President, we have respected representatives of the Council for Electronic Media, as colleagues have already said before us the first report on the work of the Electronic Media Council. At the end of the debate, I would like to talk about a subject that I didn't think anyone was talking about, and I think my colleague Vujic mentioned it on behalf of the SDP club. Namely, the Law on Electronic Media defines that electronic media is radio, television, but also electronic publications. In accordance with the very law of the Electronic Media Council, an eyewitness should also be kept on the publishers of electronic publications. What the law defines as electronic publications is that they are all software content that physically, therefore not only legal but also natural and legal persons transfer to the public through information and communication links in such a way that they are available to the general public, regardless of their scope. Translated into some kind of comprehensible language it would be Web pages of all possible profiles, from news portals like we have to completely personal flats to some advertising sites. I am now talking about this for a simple reason, which in this report, the Council for Electronic Media, that obligation and the whole of the regulation, that the regulation which should refer to electronic publications in the Council report itself is not mentioned in a single word. When we passed the Law on Electronic Media in the last term, I was just saying in the first and second readings that in some way it is inapplicable to the regulation that exists for broadcasting is also applicable to electronic publications, and it seems to me that the very fact that this does not exist in some way in this report is evidence of this thesis. But we cannot stand before the fact that the Internet as a medium, with all its aspects, which is free, a free world should be completely without any regulation. There are different models to prevent especially those things that are considered completely unacceptable in all freedom, from spreading hate, pornography to not knowing... crime at the end of the day. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What needs to be considered is that certain providers, i.e. certain legal persons who appear as publishers of electronic publications, have already installed their auto-mechanisms to regulate certain things, such as some kind of filtering, blocking that are based on software, but the question is to what extent and to which should be regulated by those electronic publications that are, in some way, a natural person. If we are to respect our law, they should have been registered as publishers of electronic media in an eyewitness at the Council, with it being unclear to me how it should be solved, in which way the Council can actually reveal whether someone appears as a publisher or does not appear as a publisher. Because some logic of radio television is completely different from the logic of the Internet. Radio, TV signal based on the concession is found by the user. You don't want him here. While there's a whole other logic on the Internet. You come across some content on purpose, no matter where it existed. For example, as a natural person, I can post an electronic publication on some kind of server in some foreign country and there is no problem, nor is it subject to Croatian regulations at all. The second question is raised by certain affairs related to block space, it is also defined in the law, related to the content of electronic publications, or copyright where there are provisions in the law that cannot be copied, copied without the permission of publishers. And there were pretty big affairs about these transcriptions, conditionally speaking, or copying from one, so now the terminology of this law of the publisher of an electronic publication on another that pretty much made the virtual world blurry. I wouldn't want to spread that debate any further. Our regulations are somewhere that electronic publications are regulated in a minimal way that would prevent both pornography and violence and hatred, pedophilia, crime, some kind of unauthorized trade, etc. Unauthorized advertising. However, I think that perhaps from the Council's incentives based on the experience that has taken place over the past year, the regulation, the legal regulation of the electronic publications themselves, should also be considered. Because the fact is that some of the electronic publications, such as various news portals, really work as an entirely independent medium with all the traditional features of the media as we know it. The fact is, we're going to be seeing television broadcasts on the Internet. He's got that somewhere. Broadcasting radios over the Internet. For example, one radio station that has a national concession has recently started broadcasting its program via the Internet and the question is how does this regulation resolve that the Internet remains what it should be free and open by defolt, and on the other hand not to violate the rules relating to radio-television itself when it comes to radio-television, i.e. not to violate all other regulations. The provisions that exist now in the law, for example, the Croatian Parliament is also, by law, a publisher of electronic media, electronic publications because it has its own website. It's every ministry, it's most political parties and it's one mass of individuals. I would like to ask in some way whether a future report is being addressed now or in some way and at the end of the work of the Council for Electronic Media, too. Because it's a pretty unexplored and gray space for legal regulation itself. But all the individual cases that happen in reality show that this new democracy that's been created, one of those new actually, freedom of public words created by the Internet is still looking for legal regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u57008	Thank you very much. And now he will address for the conclusion of the debate, the representative of the proposing Dr. Denis Pericic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u57009	Dear MPs and MPs, allow me to thank you most sincerely this time for all the exhibitions you have shown this time, both in praise and in those things that you have highlighted as certain segments that should certainly be improved. Regulation is a permanent process. It is so everywhere in the world, so is Croatia. We are at the beginning, this is our first report and what maybe we didn't do best anyway, we did the best we knew. And it is certain that we can learn and encourage your presentations to do better. However, standing firm for all of our positive range I would like to, I am obliged to perhaps briefly look back at one set of remarks, at least one set here, which is related to the fund. For a short time, therefore, the Council has adopted the implementing rules necessary for the establishment of the Fund. And first of all, it seems to me to be a public body that publicly highlighted the controversy over the HRT debt fund, and I would not go into HRT arguments at this time. As regards the allocation of funds from the Fund, the Council did the only thing that could be done in accordance with the law and sublaws, which is to value the quality of the offer and the quality of the presentation of offers, i.e. the compliance of these programme content offered to the fund with the six criteria of the programme content of public interest defined by the law, which is encouraged by the Fund. The Council did not have to, it was not obliged to encourage publishers to report with content intended for national minorities or with content of usually of particular public concern, but nevertheless the Council did so and did it further through various processes, animations, even mentioned here co-financing of the education of journalists in this regard. The Council wants publishers to report on several programmes intended for national minorities. Then a number of such programmes will be positively valorised. The Council is also firmly in favour of the opinion that no disproportionateness has occurred, for example between the so-called quantification of the quality of the bids. small and large publishers, as shown by the decision on the allocation of funds. The Council not only respects and takes care of the needs and positions of the so-called so-called ". The less publishers than the more actively continue to promote the fund and its values, especially by animated precisely those publishers who did not report to the first competition or who appeared with less valued offers, and who must have more significant creative opportunities to design new diverse and quality software content than public interest. Once again, all the MPs who took, who participated in the debates and all of you present thank you very much on my personal behalf and on behalf of the members and professional service of the Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u57010	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We're finishing work today. We'll continue the session tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with a clear agenda number 7. Annual report on the business of the Croatian Small Economy Agency (HAMAG) for 2004 and so on. Thank you. Good night!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u57011	Report on the work of the Council for Electronic Media from 25 May 2004 to 30 September 2005 In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The report on the work of the Council for Electronic Media in that period is being taken into account." Please, let's get on with it. On behalf of the club, please welcome the esteemed representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u57012	Thank you, Mr. President. We're a little surprised by the proposal for a conclusion, so we'd like to ask for a few minutes just for a deal because we're assessing that it should be for the report, but this is now being taken into consideration, so it's simple for the club to have a brief consultation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u57013	We'll have another suggestion. I suggest one proposal to conclude the two committees that say the report is accepted. ... It can be because it's voted and accepted, and it's accepted, and it's rejected, and it's all expensive. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Then we will first comply with the proposal of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. So, the proposal for a conclusion: "It takes note of the work report." Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 66 for, 16 abstentions, 14 against. Therefore, according to this proposal, the conclusion was taken into account. And now the other two conclusions of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Committee on Information, Information and Media, which suggest that the conclusion be accepted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 33 for these conclusions, 18 abstentions and 50 against. So those conclusions didn't go away. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to take measures to ensure, in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Croatia, the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, the Law on Electronic Media, the Law on HRT obligations by ratifying the European Charter on Regional or Minority Languages and Recommendations of the Competent Authorities of the Council of Europe, the proper access of national minorities to HRT stations and regional and local radio stations and television stations and the broadcasting of programmes in the languages of national minorities, as well as to inform the Croatian Parliament within the framework of the report to be submitted to the Croatian Assembly on the basis of Article 37(3). Constitutional law on the rights of national minorities." There's no one here to be obvious about this proposal? So the government's conclusion, that the government is in charge of taking action within the HRT and local radio and TV stations What? [[The intruders don't understand.]] On behalf of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, Proposer of the conclusion of Mrs Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-16-0.u57015	I do not think there is a need to vote on this conclusion because we have already voted in favour of the government's conclusion under Article 37. The constitutional law submits a report, and then we can make this report clear.
