ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58594	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the participation in international peace operations is in line with the strategic commitment of the Republic of Croatia that it wants to be an active factor in foreign policy, and thus our country is among the responsible members of the International Community who are willing to take over their part of the burden in the construction of global security. With its active participation in the peace operations of the Republic of Croatia, it contributes significantly to the bid for a non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council, and this can also be positively reflected in achieving the strategic objectives of Croatia's entry into the European Union and NATO. Participation in peacekeeping missions is listed in the National Security Strategy and the Defence Strategy as one of the ways in which Croatia contributes to peace and security in the world, and one of Croatia's taken over partner objectives as part of the implementation of the NATO accession process through the entry into the MAP process. The current participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace missions of the United Nations was arranged by the three decisions of the 2004 Croatian Parliament. The adoption of this decision is proposed in view of the need to increase the number of participants in each individual mission in line with the experience gained in missions and the received offers of the United Nations for increased participation of members of the Croatian Armed Forces in the proposed peacekeeping missions. The proposed decision allows for the continuation of the participation of members of our Armed Forces in peacekeeping missions, with the possibility of an appropriate increase in their numbers to the maximum number proposed in the proposal for this decision as of 31 December 2007. According to current decisions, a total of 31 members may participate in UN peacekeeping missions, currently being deployed on 29 missions, while the proposed decision increases the possibility of sending up to a total of 64 members. Peace missions proposing the participation of 10 peacekeeping missions are mainly peacekeeping missions on the African continent in Asia and Central America. The Government of the Republic of Croatia would be empowered to establish, for each single peacekeeping mission and for each rotation, permanent rotations, number and organisational structure of members of the Armed Forces an analogue decision that this High House made in July 2005 for the ISAF International Peace Mission in Afghanistan. This Decision obliges the Ministry of Defence to report to the Parliamentary Committee on Internal Policy and National Security on the effectiveness of the mission and the results achieved in the mission, and on the difficulties and experiences of the mission, after each rotation of the Armed Forces. To cover the costs of participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in peacekeeping missions in the 2006 Ministry of Defence budget, a total of 120 million kuna are foreseen, and the planned funds for these, namely 10 peacekeeping missions would be allocated in 2006, and this is experienced in 2007 amounting to 9 million kunas per year. Therefore, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I propose that the Parliament make this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58595	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security? President of the Committee, Honored Representative Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58596	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security at the 61st session held on 2 March 2006 discussed the proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the United Nations Peace Mission submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In his opening statement, a representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia said that participation in an international peace operation in line with the strategic commitment of the Republic of Croatia and that our country's active participation in peace operations contributes to world peace and security as soon as possible to join the European Union and NATO. The Committee supported the position of representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and assessed that sending members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia to the mission of the United Nations in the Western Sahara up to 7 members, in Haiti up to 4 members, to Cyprus up to 6 members. In the Middle East up to 8 members, in India and Pakistan up to 10 members, in Liberia up to 5 members, in Georgia up to 5 members. On the coast of Belarus up to 5 members, in Sudan to 5 members, in Ethiopia and Eritrea up to 9 members, with the possibility of rotation until 31 December 2007, of interest for the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, by majority of votes, 7 for and 1 abstentions, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace missions of the United Nations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58597	Thank you. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system? I'm opening a debate. The HDZ representative club, the respected representative Kresimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58598	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen. The previous decision to refer members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia to abroad and cross the state border, and their activities abroad, shall be taken by the Croatian Parliament. Members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace operation and other activities abroad, on the basis of the previous decision of the Croatian Parliament, shall be referred to by the President of the Republic as commander-in-chief. It's in Article 4 of the Law. It is pointed out in Article 5 that the Croatian Parliament makes the previous decision on the proposal of the President of the Republic or Government of Croatia, and that is the procedure which is respected in this case and today we are discussing here in the Croatian Parliament to create all previous preconditions in order to take the decision during tomorrow's vote on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace missions of the United Nations. In the light of the provisions of this Act under peace operations and other activities, activities in achieving and preserving peace, activities in the framework of peacekeeping missions and peacekeeping forces, as well as participation in preparation, training and training shall be taken into account. In particular, all forms of humanitarian aid should be highlighted in the form and framework of various peace operations. Certainly, what is less seen, and it stands out as a very important form, especially for the countries after the war and for the reconstruction of their institutions, concerns various activities related to promoting the development of democracy, legal security, the protection of human rights within international organisations and alliances. In the content of the previous decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the United Nations peacekeeping missions in Article 1. "The members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia refer to the United Nations peacekeeping missions with the possibility of rotation until 31 December 2007 and as follows." That is already said, the Western Sahara of up to 7 members, Haiti, Cyprus, the Middle East, India, Pakistan, Liberia, Georgia, the Ivory Coast, Sudan, Ethiopia and Eritrea. If the current number of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the United Nations peacekeeping missions is taken into account, then it must be determined that the number is relatively small, only 29. It is, however, a significant number of countries and after the adoption of this previous decision that number will increase to 64. Overall, looking at the number of current members in the missions of the United Nations and the number of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the police and the foreign ministry of around 50, together with the total number of 80 people. It may seem a lot, but if these numbers are compared to other countries, then in any case, it should be determined that the Republic of Croatia rightly commits to expanding its participation in UN peacekeeping missions as well as NATO peacekeeping missions. These numbers are practically a real measure of our commitment to participate as a state in international peace operations and to establish and preserve peace through the pensions of the UN and NATO missions. This is particularly important to stress, the real measure of our full commitment are these numbers and our intention to prove on the wider international stage the willingness of the Government of Croatia to intensify this form of participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in peace operations through a decision last summer here in the Croatian Parliament and probably a decision tomorrow. It will be a clear form of proof and the full commitment of our state policy to take its full place in building peace, security and stability on a wider international stage. Of all the various UN missions being discussed here, I would take advantage of the opportunity and especially highlight the UN peacekeeping mission in India and Pakistan for a number of reasons. It is one of the oldest and most demanding missions of the United Nations since 1949 when a UN peacekeeping mission was established in India and Pakistan. Why is this mission particularly important? For a number of reasons, I'll only point out some. It is two nuclear forces to India and Pakistan, two countries that have almost over a billion people, and it is also a fact that in one such important international peace mission, the Republic of Croatia has a particularly prominent place, not only with the number of participants but with the fact that the commander of the United Nations mission in India and Pakistan is a Croatian general, Major General Repinc is a model officer in all respects, it is not only a recognition of him as a person but also with the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Defence, but also with the Republic of Croatia as a whole. Over a hundred people who spend their peace surveillance operations alternatively half a year in Pakistan and half a year in India participate in this demanding and important international mission. It should certainly be kept in mind that the operation is also located in the neighbourhood of Afghanistan where Croatian armed forces have the lead of their military police, and soon the presence of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in Afghanistan in different parts of the large country will be increasingly noticeable. It is also important these days or these months to point out that NATO's extremely active operation to help civilians suffer during a recent earthquake. When we talk about peace operations, then we only talk about their military context in some way, military content, but there are other aspects that need to be highlighted and that need to be given more importance in the future. Certainly these peace operations affirm the Republic of Croatia in a political sense on the international stage, but it must not be forgotten that these forms of international peace operations can also be a medium through which not only bilateral co-operation between the two countries can be promoted, good political relations, what I particularly want to stress this fact can be an instrument for improving economic relations between countries. You can only assume to what extent it may be important to step up economic cooperation using these facts that the Republic of Croatia has a very important mission in this operation, e.g. between the economy of the Republic of Croatia and India, India today becoming one of the world's leading powers in some important economic sectors such as software, information and communication technologies, etc. The fact is that when some of these peace operations are analysed more carefully, then the relationship with the economy of the dominant countries, which play the most significant, or dominant role in these peace operations, is clearly seen. I would like to point out that during a recent one of last year's visits to Afghanistan, I had the opportunity to talk to the Minister of Energy and Water in Afghanistan who, during those talks, stressed the following "why your businessmen, why don't your companies come and participate in the reconstruction of Afghanistan?" He mentioned "Cončar", "Cončar" which was once very active in the construction of power plants, and without the knowledge of "Cončar", unfortunately many of these facilities are not yet operational. Therefore, when we talk about peace operations, it is not bad in the field of vision to have potential economic ties between our countries. Certainly, in general, international peace operations are part of our obligations as active members of the international community. We must never forget the fact that in 1992 the forces of UMPROFOR came to the premises, temporarily occupied spaces and to the premises of the Republic of Croatia to ensure the separation of forces and stabilised this area here and here. It's part of our responsibility, it's part of our solidarity. Security policy, as we see today, is no longer regional but is part of global responsibility. Also through our participation in peace operations is promoted in some way by the Republic of Croatia, the international visibility of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia is ensured, international recognition of Croatian soldiers is ensured not only in... , India, Pakistan in Kashmir than I always say is a special pleasure when a man lands at the Afghan airport the first flag that springs is actually the flag of the military police armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we talk about participating in military operations, we must certainly say a few things about possible risks because reducing these risks is part of our shared responsibility. How to minimise risks in some operations that are particularly risky and demanding? Quality selection of people, quality training, quality equipment and all that is necessary for these people to be responsible, to successfully carry out their professional work in such a demanding environment. The institutions of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia have, in this sense, but what is important in particular to highlight the training centre for peace operations officers is that part of the infrastructure that deserves all attention and has appropriate international certificates, namely UN certificates, and that is the institution that should, in any event, be strengthened priority among all the other requirements we have talked about here recently. Today, international peace operations are not limited to the separation of forces but are increasingly focused on stabilising and reconstructing the war of the affected areas and, therefore, today in NATO, expressions such as SIMIH are increasingly relevant in terms of civil-military operations in which a growing number of civilians with different kinds of abilities that they should play in the role of civilians as diplomats, psychologists, etc. All of this must certainly be ensured through Croatian media. The fact that a hundred people from the Republic of Croatia officers, officers, diplomats and policemen participate in such demanding operations worldwide requires little more responsibility and attention from our media. Finally, as always and so far, the HDZ Club will give full support to this decision because it represents the continuity of Croatian state policy since the early 1990s. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58599	Thank you. The IDS Club is a respected representative of Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58600	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, Well, whatever we're talking about, we have to admit to ourselves that the United Nations has greatly influenced and that the conflict in our premises is incomparably less bloody in the territory of the Republic of Croatia than it would have been if those here had no peace forces. If I'm not mistaken here, there could be eight or nine thousand UNPROFOR members. In Bosnia, their presence unfortunately did not prevent the tragedy of Srebrenica. However, it can be said that Srebrenica and its greatest shame or the greatest shame of the United Nations peacekeeping missions, but I believe that in the Republic of Croatia they have played a positive role in some way. And so much the Republic of Croatia must also be responsible for the international community but in some way against our not so long ago. I also think that, with all the risk of our participation in the missions of the United Nations that require significant budgets, too, must not come into question. In one word, there is a paraphrasing of Zlatko Kramarić no one is an island nor Croatia when the international engagement is due to be an island. I also believe that the participation of Croatian soldiers in Afghanistan should not be questionable, noting that the territory of Afghanistan was led by an attack on New York but also by other innocent civilian objectives. The truth is, going to Iraq is out of the question. It would be devastating, it would be harmful, it would be all too risky no matter what the odds are, what happens there, as this conflict grows between the Shita and the Summits, etc. I don't want to talk about it. However, regardless of everything, Croatia must not think of going to Iraq or training their police, militia, as it is already called or other troops, instructors and so on. What is this about the Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the United Nations peacekeeping missions? Croatia has 29 members of the armed forces, 29 members of nine missions, engaged worldwide today through these missions. In the end, there are 64 military officers in those nine missions, but in some ways we need to add 150 soldiers who will be in Afghanistan, not under the auspices of the United Nations. Or a total outside the Republic of Croatia, for example, at the end of the year, two hundred 14 military officers, officers, generals, could be found, as is already going. We've heard everything here, but we haven't heard one very important piece of information. How much will this ultimately cost the Republic of Croatia? By my calculation, at least $30 million. That means somewhere 200 million kunas and I probably don't know if I've heard more. Only for wages if 15 thousand kunas are salaries and contributions, 30 to 40 million kunas. Only the leadership of the Croatian military police in Afghanistan at the annual level seems to cost me, I'm talking about 150 soldiers, about 20 million kuna. On the other hand, we can ask ourselves how much the United Nations spent annually there in 92, 93, when they were present on the ground of the Republic of Croatia. They spent on their 8, 9, even thousands of soldiers and billions of dollars a year. However, we are now in the order of missions. First, we have a United Nations peacekeeping mission in the Western Sahara, currently operating in Mission MINURSO 28 members of the unit, 195 military observers and 6 members of the civilian police with the support of 124 international civilian and 96 local civilian personnel. The Western Sahara, which is why I quote it, does not appear in analysts' forecasts as a potential focus of the new crisis. It means that this mission is not a risk. We're moving on to the United Nations mission to Haiti. Military forces in total number of 3,000 soldiers are present there. They were sent from Brazil, Chile, France, Canada, the United States, etc. The situation in the country is still unstable, but despite the poor functioning of Haitian authorities, there is no chaos or chaos, and we will say that this mission is not particularly risky either. A United Nations peacekeeping mission in Cyprus. The Cyprus mission has been in a stalemate for many years, and the reason is, in part, in the mandate of a mission to help normalise relations and maintain the status quo along the green line. The existing forces include military personnel of 840 members, civilian police 68, international civilian personnel 38 and local civilian personnel 111. It was assessed by a reduced risk mission. And all those who were in Cyprus know that in fact some greater risk for these military troops there is not as clear as anyone if one bullet was fired so that their altruism-based economy would fall apart overnight and so no one would surely engage in any adventure. Now we come to the peace missions of the United Nations in the Middle East. We have a few missions here. First of all, this mission that operates at Golan or Golan High School means in the area of Israel and Syria. And the other one is in the area of Lebanon. They are also present in the area of the Sinai Peninsula and have offices in Beirut and Damascus. We have 150 military observers here with the support of 102 members of international and 119 local civilian personnel, and it is freely said that the risk of all missions directed by soldiers from the Republic of Croatia may be the highest. Then we have a peace mission in India and Pakistan. It's also rated as medium-risk. We have a peace mission in Liberia. Not to quote how many soldiers there are now, there's a lot of them. Nearly 17, 18 thousand but it has been evaluated too, it is now assessed by a risk-enhancing mission with a tendency to improve the situation. The conflict in Abhezia, which is strategically located on the Black Sea, says the biggest security risk is mines, so it is not a particularly dangerous security risk. The Ivory Coast has also been assessed as a mid-risk mission. The mission in Sudan means the mission is also a mid-risk mission with a questionable trend of improvement and we finally have a United Nations peacekeeping mission in Ethiopia and Eritrea where more than 70,000 people have died in time, and it has been assessed by the mission of increased levels of risk, and especially by the great danger of sown mines. So we can't escape the fact that the risk clearly exists. He's the biggest in Afghanistan in my court, in the Middle East. So in a number of Muslim countries, opportunities are constantly changing, and missions can understandably be the subject of permanent or potential targets. Croatia, on the other hand, has not yet had one if I do not cheat on the injured soldier, which also speaks of the quality of the Croatian soldier going to those risk areas. For the end, we can't escape the fact that risk exists. However, in some ways we must repay the debt to the United Nations. I think that up to 200 soldiers, the Republic of Croatia can send for these missions. It's certainly more than that because it's been embossed with huge huge material costs. We'll be sure, that'll probably tell us later to face 200 million kunas and more. That's 0.1% of gross social product. So that's not a little bit. This is a huge burden for the Republic of Croatia, and this is how it should certainly be done, and according to those coming from NATO and other such institutions in the Republic of Croatia, I do not know. Negotiate or otherwise negotiate. As for NATO, I would be the happiest if he had shut down with the Warsaw Pact, however, he did not. So what now? We must also be aware of the fact that no member of the European Union has become without having previously been a member of NATO. I also know that if tomorrow were to go to a referendum that the vast majority of citizens would probably be against, however, the question is, can we do it ourselves? Should I go back to that maxi? Can we go like an island? No, we can't. This does not mean that someone needs to give up ground for bases and so on, but it is certain that we cannot escape from it, and what I would say is discouraging that it is the prime minister's stand... not the NATO ambassador to Brussels, the ambassador of the United States who said that Croatia will not be in NATO before 2008, which will say that if we translate it into our own language into the European Union it will not be before 2010, 2011 or before 2012. It's a little depressing and it's safe to do everything to sort of get these deadlines if it's possible and shortened. Finally, I will say once again, Croatia will have 214 soldiers outside its borders, I hope, with the decision of the Croatian Parliament. The question is, how much is it? I'm saying it's definitely 200 million kunas and maybe more. So 0.1% of gross social product, the Republic of Croatia stands out for the engagement of our troops within the United Nations or for the presence of Afghanistan through NATO forces. One word is a huge burden and how we must communicate and communicate with the Croatian public but also explain to her the opportunities in this country in the early 1990s, and what this means for all of them. And for this decision, the IDS votes. [[Intruder: To vote for this decision?]] Yeah. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58601	HSP's respected representative Pero Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58602	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, first of all, I'd like to start off with this part of what Mr. Cain was saying. On behalf of the HSP Club as we do, this assessment of the situation so far and the reasons and objectives of this decision is interesting. Among other things, it has been said that one of the main goals of decision-making is the participation of members of the Croatian Armed Forces in peacekeeping missions and as soon as Croatia enters NATO. That looks good on you. It's true, but it's not true until the end, Mr. Caine said. On Tuesday morning, we were having coffee with Victoria Nuland, the US Ambassador to NATO and the ambassador was and she said what we of HSP have been saying for a long time: "You have just begun reforming the armed forces and it is up to you, it is up to you when Croatia will join NATO alliance. And us," she said openly "us, the United States of America was unpleasantly surprised by the fact that Croatia only two, three months ago realized that it is not yet ready to join the NATO alliance and that we need a lot of work." That's what the ambassador said on that coffee where we were together. So this goal, and she said "2008" means when you can talk about new entrys, "it's not up to us, it's up to the United States, it's up to Croatia." So you've just started reforming the armed forces and there's a lot more you need to do and it's not up to anyone else, and Congress resolution is just a recommendation. There is no such power that individual representatives are, here is Mr. Arlovic was the same. So that's the part where it's said exactly: "You've made some moves about this part of the military police, but this second, situation is not satisfactory and you're going to have to do a lot more." Therefore, so much for the purpose of making this decision and the reasons for that part that with this decision, we will join the NATO alliance as soon as possible, because it is obvious that we will need much, much more to do in order to achieve this part. Secondly, there have been speeches here that are equally important to us when one such decision is made, of course the difference is related to participation in peacekeeping missions under the auspices of the United Nations and under the auspices of the NATO alliance. But in everyone, when it comes to all missions, we also need to talk about the risk factor. So the risk factor when talking about the risk factor should first discuss the risk factor for members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia participating. And the second risk factor for the Croatian state itself, given the character of individual missions, is mainly related to these missions where we participate under the auspices of the NATO alliance. Mr. Cain tried to do this, unfortunately, he took a bad degree of risk and everything else, so here's what I'm going to try to tell you on behalf of the HSP club. So Ethiopia's peace mission, Eritrea, is an increased level of risk for a peace mission, not like you said. A peacekeeping mission in Sudan is a higher-risk peacekeeping mission. The peace mission on the Ivory Coast is a medium risk. The peace mission in Georgia is risky. The India Peace Mission, Pakistan, is currently in mid-risk retirement mission. You were wrong about Liberia because it's a peace mission of increased risk. You also said wrong about the Sahara, which is potentially the focus of the new crisis. And in this peace mission, the worst thing for you is the fact that the legal status of the mission is not yet defined because of the fact that the term of the referendum has been delayed, it remains unsolved. Also, the Haitian peacekeeping mission belongs to Mr. Caine on an increased risk mission. Therefore, it is evident from all of this that when we send members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, we need to know what level of risk, or even those who are killed, because certain pensions of the mission are separation, and certain peacekeeping missions are activities in the whole area, which are the worst peacekeeping missions. Working in the entire area where the degree of death is far greater. Thus, when we make such decisions, we must have these facts and risks in mind. And another kind of risk is this risk that can have an impact on the country itself, which is a return terrorist action. Which could not be said for these at this point that they can also have feedback, at least according to the current level of risk and condition. But when the Croatian Army Company, meaning in the 6th month of this year it goes to Afghanistan, you know that it enters a completely different mission, it's no longer a police mission, it's a mission that's exposed to death and it's a mission where it's involved in cleaning the terrain. So, the purely military character of the mission and where we can then have a negative counterrisk for Croatia. Let's say one terrorist act in Croatia during the tourist season means the collapse of the tourist season. And we ourselves know our situation with the goods deficit because tourism saves us from covering Croatia's trade deficit. And that's one situation, so we need to talk about it, what could have all the negative effects. You know, you saw for yourself and in the actions of the NATO alliance to suffer from friendly fire, these were cases of signs of both the half, and the shooting of planes and everything else. So in these peace missions, you've seen for some, let's say, this exact thing in Haiti is that there have been executions in separate incidents caused by armed members or groups. There was also the death and wounding of members of the Haiti peace mission. What else is the legal problem in certain peace missions? Because members of a peacekeeping mission also have the role of government, such as this peacekeeping mission in Haiti and everything else. So that's also the character we say to the occupation authorities because they're not just participants in peacekeeping missions, that's also the chapter of the Charter of the United Nations, when and how these peace missions are directed. Therefore, it is important for the public in all these situations to know all these situations, which are levels of risk and which can come for members of the Armed Forces. To know the true truth and normally to say it is always the difference between peacekeeping missions under the auspices of the United Nations and the peace missions under the auspices of NATO alliances, such as Afghanistan and this case in Iraq. And it is also important for us, Mr. Cosic said about this part, that for all of this and the risk and behavior in the given situation, it is important how and how the willingness and training of members of the Armed Forces will work. But it's important, in missions like this, we know that there was a mission under the auspices of the United Nations, where there was a situation that had to be pulled out of the entire peace mission. And I'm asking the defence minister how and in what way are we supposed to extract in these executed missions of members of the Armed Forces in the event that members of the peacekeeping missions can no longer control the situation. And such peacekeeping missions were also under the auspices of the United Nations, and under the auspices of NATO alliances there was much. So it's a complete overview of everything that matters. So they know both the public and the family, let's say in such situations that they're going to... be an American army or there will be other forces, or German forces or something else or third. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I think it was a mistake made in Afghanistan for a peace mission to take clothes as a member of the American Army. Okay, that's, that would be a mistake if they were the same, because we know what that can do. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58603	Thank you very much. Correction, Mr. Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58604	Just to correct Mr. Pera Kovacevic's incorrect allegations that I misquoted the levels of risk. It's just not true. I quoted it from those same materials that he later quoted. So we did the same thing to each other. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58605	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58606	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Namely, I read the degrees of risk right out of government material, and Damir spoke out of his head. So, he's hurt. ... So read it to yourself. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58607	Thank you very much. It's all on the border. When a person’s opinion is corrected, and when a breach of the Rules of Procedure is sought, something similar is said. It's next to the HNS Club and Mr. Representative Zeljko Kurtov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58608	Dear Mr. Vice President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. By becoming a full member of the United Nations, Croatia has received rights as well as obligations. However, although participation in peacekeeping missions is not considered a priori obligation, certain Member States can be of great help in achieving a certain international status which has been recognised by the engagement in similar situations in Croatia. Participation in UN peacekeeping missions is listed in the National Security Strategy and the Defence Strategy in order to actively contribute to world peace and security. Also, as entry into the North Atlantic Alliance is one of the strategic objectives of the Republic of Croatia, participation in the framework of the missions of members of the Armed Forces contributes to education and the collection of positive and progressive experiences so that they can be implemented in the modernisation of the Croatian Army in the process of adapting the MRLs to NATO standards. It also places our country among the responsible members of the International Community who are willing to take over their share of the burden of global security. Croatian officers participating in UN peacekeeping missions are given the opportunity to compare abilities and skills with those from other countries as well as learn from them. The armed forces of the Republic of Croatia are in very poor condition to think of technical means, yet they have a sufficient number of highly trained officers from whom a number of trained and prestigious military schools such as West Point, etc. But there is also a high readiness of officers and officers to go to UN peacekeeping missions around the world. One of the indicators of how much our members of the peace missions are appreciated is the fact that among the 20% of the best officers who contribute to the maintenance of the escalating conflict at many crisis areas, another of the high-value factors is the experience of the Homeland War, which many members of the peace missions do not have or at least not of such a type, which is very important in the crisis situations in which they may be found. The Croatian People's Party's Club supports the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace missions of the United Nations because it is an honorary part of the international and moral obligation of each country, but also valuable sources of experience and knowledge that our officers collect and contribute to the development of both global security and modernisation of the Armed Forces. And as for concerns about our officers, officers and soldiers, as for their risk of participating in missions, we don't possibly send nuns to spread Christianity there, but we send people who will preserve peace and these officers and officers are not afraid of that risk, and they are very happy to go to that service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58609	Thank you very much. It's next to the HSS club, Mr. Representative Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58610	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, Croatia's right and obligations require that the participation of members of our Armed Forces in peacekeeping missions be on the principle of the operational situation of the Armed Forces but also on the principle of efficiency, but also on the principle of supporting all those peacekeeping missions that are currently being carried out within the United Nations. Croatia has shown, above all, its participation in these missions, that it has the capacity, that reforms carried out six to seven years ago have produced results and that these reforms show, and in particular assessments from the mission where the Armed Forces are located, say that our members are at this moment if the criteria of a certain degree of efficiency and equipment are being carried out, they say that the Croatian part of the peace missions is classified in the order or elite of these peace missions. Of course, such a situation obliges, such a situation simply from the aspect of the International Community and the United Nations states that Croatia can expect a greater number of members in the coming years and that it is necessary to invest in training in creating infrastructure support in creating a positive position on this. Namely in Croatia is for these or those reasons, I am here talking exclusively and decided about those missions that are peacekeeping missions and which are under the auspices of the United Nations. However, a certain negative attitude is being created regarding the view of the overall missions and the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia outside the borders, and in some ways it creates an unnecessary bad picture. I think we need to fully distinguish operations, peace operations from those that contain both the other or different principle of risk and the different purpose of the mission. Therefore, when we talk about peacekeeping missions, regardless of the different risks from individual mission to mission, I think that one affirmative approach should nevertheless be created and, in that sense, give a clearer and more positive message to the public, but also to the Armed Forces, and to the Armed Forces in particular to those members and members of those missions, because these needs for such missions, unfortunately for the world in which we live, because of the circumstances I will, of course, exist tomorrow and the obligations of each member state of the United Nations are very clear in this respect and Croatia can, of course, respect its obligations. The part relating to possible benefits from participation in United Nations missions in peacekeeping missions, especially those that are trying to comply with the former doctrine where the military goes and the economy, rely that way and that level of action. Of course, it probably didn’t get completely lost and lost. However, the methods and ways in which an armed force can open up the space of action in the economy are somewhat different and they in any case contain certain risks in themselves which, at this point in time, may not be good for countries like Croatia, would not be positive. Of course, I think of the general opinion or majority opinion on Iraq, on engagement in Iraq, and on everything called war benifit that can in some way position itself in this matter together. What is important to me and the HSS Club is that Croatia does not lag behind other participating countries in such peacekeeping missions, neither in terms of technical equipment nor in terms of the status of members, nor in terms of motivation, nor in terms of the completion of the number relating to the Croatian contingent. Of course, such obligations and such contingents that the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia can meet and fulfil at this moment and that would rely on this decision that we are discussing today should also be incorporated into a single broad reform that we have discussed. Reforming the Croatian Armed Forces. Of course, a good part of these obligations and relations can be drawn from the Strategy of Defence, a National Security Strategy that has made very clear the long-term and strategic objectives that the Republic of Croatia has and should be relied on. Of course, institutions such as the NATO Military Alliance are not only the goals that Croatia has in terms of the Armed Forces, but the overall political infrastructure in Croatia should be achieved, but they simply represent the kind of steps Croatia must take. And that, I wouldn't call it exclusively in terms of the Armed Forces system and system. It is about the full political reforms that should respond to the role and place of Armed Forces in the Republic of Croatia, the way in which the entire reform pillar is implemented in the Republic of Croatia. The way it can be explained and how a new place can be set and the role the Armed Forces should play in terms of Croatian specificities. Which of the segments of the Armed Forces I will take as primary, whether it will be the Adriatic Belt, whether it will be a land army, whether it will be air contingents. Therefore, what is important in countries like Croatia and if, or those who have had the opportunity to participate in talks with NATO leaders or who have been in delegations and where experiences of similar countries have been discussed. I mean, by space and by population compared to Croatia. At that time, specializations in respect of each segment are actually very visible. Each one of these countries took a specific instrument and in this regard built its interoperability, in this sense building its reinforcement. And that's how she tried to be not part of a system but mastered most of the part of the system that this country needs most. The most needed not only in military terms but also in that peacetime aspect that is often as important as this other character. Therefore, the HSS Club will, of course, support this decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and, of course, we hope that both these long-term and short-term objectives will be met. And that these missions will be carried out successfully, in quality and that all of our members from those missions will be returned alive and well.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58611	Thank you very much. We have one correction, Mr. Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58612	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I'm correcting several incorrect allegations. Mr. Markov said, and first I'm going to correct the first incorrect quote. Veli, Croatia is not behind technically for other members of other armed forces participating in peacekeeping missions. That's incorrect. Mr. Markov, Croatia does not have the power and means to transport its members of the Armed Forces either there, nor back nor in the event of a variant of the extraction of its members of the Armed Forces if the mission takes on such a character that it is a total death and it is necessary to extract members of the Armed Forces. You're also mixing the concept of armed forces reform as a whole... /The speaker turned off, then subsequently turned on./ Americans just... Small, modern armed forces with all three branches. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And part of approaching NATO, what NATO's alliance is looking for, is that it's looking for a land army that's always ready and trained to intervene where the NATO alliance sends it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58613	A colleague Markov expressed his opinion that we are capable, ready, etc., and since there are no exact standards, then we must trust each other. Let's move on. It's Mr. Zlatko Kramarić's turn on behalf of the HSLS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58614	... and democracy guaranteed. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58615	Thank you if it's not ironic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58616	And it's not ironic. It's really not ironic because we have, we've had through the history of this Parliament and other examples. So it's really not ironic, and God forbid you want to be ironic in a situation like this. I think that we should be honest and say that we must take my share of responsibility against the fact that we are a member of the international institutions of the United Nations and that simply if we want to be honest with each other and then we must also participate in these peace operations. That's what the one said, that's the premise, the zero premise that has to come from, and I think she actually has to run all of this, in every discussion we have. On the other hand, this honesty should go even further and say and remember really those difficult days of 91, 2, 3 and beyond when the presence of members of the United Nations in this space was indeed the fact that conditioned stabilisation in Croatia in 91 and 2 years. And normally, she somehow allowed us to buy so much necessary time to arm ourselves and do what we did back there in '95, those two magnificent military redistribution actions "Blash" and "Storm" and did. And just from that fact right now it's worth what... That no one can be an island, so neither can we. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Indeed, Croatia must also participate in such peace operations. And the fact that this participation is on a symbolic level. We have to be honest and admit that this number of our soldiers who participates is not dramatic, the largest number is 10 in India and Pakistan, and the smallest number seems to me to be 4 in Haiti. Someone here was talking about the risk. ... he wrote "The Risky Society" thinking of this modern Western European society, so he also talked there about the aspect of the risk. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Every operation of this kind certainly contains in itself a real amount of risk, but we want to believe that this is the same part of the work that members of our armed forces have to do only by the fact that they are soldiers and accept and we agree to it, and we just have this responsibility that as a Parliament we actually give them a green light and show them our very willingness to support these activities. But what I think right now is that we should still be something to say more self-critical. If he's old, good, smart David... Whether it's clear that post-hoc non-est prote hoc means that we can't replace the consequences and the causes I'm afraid that this fact actually means nothing to us politically or economically. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And certainly this thesis is just that we are part of this world, that we are not part of it, that we are part of it, that we are involved in all these significant global operations against world terrorism, that we are ready to keep calm really with places that the Republic of Croatia have nothing to do with it, that will mean nothing to our faster entry into NATO pact as much as we want, as much as we want to show it, I'm afraid that this thesis is not standing. It's not logical but it sounds nice like this, but let's not fool ourselves with it, and really what we're saying is a whole series of other things we have to clean up at home, home it's true, we're ourselves blacksmiths of our luck how we're going to turn from this moment on which is... He said something that belongs to deura and de facto about relations in theory and practice, but this fact may only be a small pebble, but it is in no way important and in no way decisive because that would make Croatia a long time ago a part of the NATO Pact. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And second to this economic aspect of our military operations. I'm afraid that's what fellow Cosic was talking about, but I think that story is that where we pass, I don't know our military boot that the economy is going after it, that it doesn't exactly stand, but the businessmen still have other interests. I believe that story from Afghanistan, etc., but I'm afraid that we leave it to the economics that they actually find their motives, their reasons, and that this way it won't come to them. Let us remember, we all remember the Jordanians and these Argentineans who were at least there the Russians who were around us weren't talking about what kind of economic relations they were but first when they came they were welcome, and then the same later we also begged God to leave as soon as possible and to really take fate into our own hands. So this fact of how good it is to know when we're already making a decision that Parliament will cost, that is, 200 million kunas like counterpart Cain said, we must be aware that these operations and cost them, and these are the same facts that we must agree on, we are part of that international world, and from that fact we can say certain benefits, but not so quickly and as some think it is. I'm saying they're not... , let us keep these presences of our people, soldiers in one decent symbolic measure as it is so far and for these very reasons the Croatian Social Liberal Party club will give full support to this precisely from this fact that we simply need to understand when the other is in trouble, or when another bell rings that some way always rings for us and God forbid those events from the early 1990s, just when I say that when someone has tasted it, they really are smoking on cold and really peace in the world, stability is what every citizen of this country must be one of the priorities and then in this context there and this fact that our members of the armed forces participate in a certain... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] operations, although these operations really are not, we can't put a sign of equality, they're more risky or less risky, there's... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] as a problem with Liberia, there is legal status is actually a problem and some way and then it is also growing responsibility, but yet we are part of these multinational forces and then I believe what fellow Kovacevic is actually warning that probably, in the case of these, God does not really give disastrous tragic events that there are indeed plans for extraction, and I believe within our members, but also as part of a broader contingent that no one would really be left to the mercy and mercy of those forces who really want neither peace nor security in these areas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58617	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual discussion. The first is Mr. Representative Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58618	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. There's a lot already being said about this subject, but here I want to make a short contribution to this debate. As in this House of Commons, there is disagreement and certain doubts about almost all the topics that we are discussing and some of the citizens in the Republic of Croatia have doubts as to whether members of our armed forces should participate in military missions and exercises both under the auspices of NATO and in the peace missions of the United Nations. The truth has more disagreements for participating in NATO missions than for UN-sponsored missions. Often this is due to insufficient information and training of citizens about what our members are doing in the world from Cyprus to Ethiopia, Sudan, Haiti, etc. The question is, what is the interest in all this Republic of Croatia? In my opinion, the answer is simple, Croatia must make its contribution to peace and security in the world just as we make our contribution to the world sport of the performances of our athletes in international competitions, the participation of our artists, scientists, economists around the world also contribute to art, science, economy. I believe we must certainly be participants in the achievement of peace and security in the world. Participation in peacekeeping missions is certainly of the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia, especially in light of the fact that Croatia wants to join the NATO association. All missions involving our members of the armed forces have different mandates and tasks from the separation of warring parties, the maintenance of peace, the introduction of order and law, as well as the implementation of activities on the humanitarian plan and the protection of human rights. Every mission from the security aspect has a risk assessment as we've already heard from a less, medium and more risky mission. Due to the successful action of our members and all missions from our country is expected and requires further participation with the same or more Croatian participants. Since the Ministry of Defence has provided funds, the funding from the state budget for the participation of our members of the armed forces in these proposed missions that are proposed in this decision I will, of course, support this decision and I am glad that here is how much I see most clubs support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58619	Thank you very much. At 17.14, it was time to apply for a ten-minute hearing. And it's Mr. Tomislav Tomic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58620	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Here, let me, in a few words, also support the decision on the participation of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in the United Nations peace missions. In my opinion, it is an invitation for the United Nations to participate in armed forces in peacekeeping missions around the world or crisis areas around the world that I am honored and to recognise the Republic of Croatia to participate actively in ensuring general security. The tasks carried out by Croatian officers in the peace missions of the United Nations, military observers and staff officers are complex and include those which are within the traditional and relatively restrictive mandates of the preservation of peace, monitoring and supervision of the implementation of peace agreements, supervision of demobilisation zones, supervision of the implementation of demobilization to tasks that cross the frameworks of traditional peace conservation and fall within the so-called ". multidimensional operations, which are monitoring, monitoring, training of police forces and other efforts to establish the rule of law, monitoring and assistance in order to improve human rights, support in the implementation of humanitarian aid delivery, assistance in ensuring conditions for the implementation of elections and others. Given that the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia have an increasing engagement on the international agenda in crisis response operations, participation in the missions of the United Nations is very important and the best opportunity for Croatian officers to gain experience in the work of multinational headquarters and in general working in the international environment. The readiness of the Republic of Croatia to participate in international peace missions is a strategic decree of the Republic of Croatia but also logical because the Republic of Croatia has just used the assistance of the UN peacekeeping mission from 92. Resolution 743, which decides to send peacekeeping forces to the Republic of Croatia to this crisis area. The Republic of Croatia was a victim of crazy aggression and thanks to exceptional efforts, we stopped aggression and later defeated the aggressors. However, it is important to respect the efforts of the International Community which, on complex world occasions, came to the aid of the Republic of Croatia and, by sending peace forces, marked the beginning of the end of the aggression on the republic but also the beginning of a new phase of our country's struggle for international affirmation and sovereignty throughout the area. It is these experiences that our country is ready to participate in the United Nations peace missions and to help others where this assistance is needed. We have shown great motivation on this plan, and this way, we must continue through the construction of international stability. This is a path that contributes to the bid for a non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council and, in particular, to the achievement of its strategic objectives of joining the European Union and NATO alliance. The activities of the Republic of Croatia and the environment take on more stable and secure features and enables the Republic of Croatia to take a strong step towards more engaged participation in international activities, i.e. to become its exporter instead of its importer. An important contribution to promoting Croatian interests on the road to NATO membership is the appointment of Brig-Gen Dragutin Repinco as commander of the UN military watchdogs of a peacekeeping mission in India and Pakistan. The duty of rank is immediately below the level of Assistant Secretary General of the United Nations and we can truly be proud of the general and also of the armed forces. I hope that all threats threatened by peace missions will be visited by members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia and that the missions will be successfully carried out, alive and well returned to their families and to the pride of us all in the country. Finally, the Republic of Croatia has already been affirmed in the field of participation in peacekeeping missions and should continue to accept and increase participation in international missions of the United Nations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58621	Thank you very much. This is how we exhausted the speakers who applied. Mr. Berislav Roncevic, the defence minister, will speak again.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58622	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A very brief review of a number of views presented in the debate of distinguished parliamentary deputies. Risk factor. There is no peace mission without risk. If the Security Council were not at risk, it would most likely not open a peace mission, there would be no need to open a peace mission. In the material you have received, the official risk factors provided for by the mission command proposal have been established by the Security Council. The funds. This participation of members of the Croatian Armed Forces in these peace missions offered to you, especially because they participate in the 10 million kuna peacekeeping mission and no longer. The Croatian soldier would receive salaries per place, a design place for his personal rank and a design act and in Croatia not to participate in a peacekeeping mission. And I'm not for the cost to be covered up, but I don't need to increase them. They're calculated exactly with all the equipment he has with his salary, with extras for his participation in the peace mission for these 64 members, that's 10 million kuna a year. Overall, the entire peacekeeping mission and the most demanding and technically and financially it is in Afghanistan but it is not the subject of this decision is the 120 million kuna found in the budget in the position of the Ministry of Defence, extraction. Croatian soldiers participate as part of the mission and there is an extraction plan. He's the mission's command. An example. There has been a recent tension between Ethiopia and Eritrea and has been applied to the extraction plan. The Peacekeepers have retreated to reserve position. Along with them, members of the Croatian Armed Forces. We don't act alone there, we act as part of the mission. In addition, Croatia has its own capacities. Transport aircraft and transport helicopters that have been remounted or modernised for international peace operations. Contribution. The biggest contribution is the adoption of standard operating procedures and new knowledge and skills that members of our peacekeeping missions receive through participation in peacekeeping missions and international exercises. There is an incredible difference and progress in both people and personally and at the level of the unit among those who have passed the participation in international peace operations. They have passed a preliminary preparation at our centre for international peace operations that we are developing what MP Cosic said and we will normally develop it. Which has certificates of both the UN and NATO. And whoever passes and receives the certificate is fully qualified to participate in an international peace mission. Is participation going to be a big step towards NATO? Every step towards NATO, every rock is good on this road, contributes significantly. Croatia participates with what it currently can. We don't make commitments we can't carry out. This is our reality. This is what we said we can give and we can't take over with a number or a material asset that we can't. Because then we'll be unworthy. And the smallest grain on the scale weighs the scale tab. This will certainly contribute. In no way will they bring us back to our journey to NATO and the European Union, but it will contribute. How much? Let us be patient and thank you for your support and in the debate, the views expressed in the debate of all the representatives of the clubs who announced their support for this decision and normally those clubs that did not take part in the debate today. I am convinced that this decision will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58623	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58624	Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the United Nations peacekeeping missions. The decision requires a two-thirds majority of all MPs' votes, at least 102 votes. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 100:2, so that no decision has been taken so that the peace missions will go towards an existing number of members of the Armed Forces will go to an existing extent in these peacekeeping missions. Who's objecting that the vote is wrong? ... It's all right if you vote individually. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We'll vote one more time. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 102 votes, a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in peace missions was taken in the text proposed by the applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58625	And we move to the fourth item of the agenda: - The proposal for a decision to declare "National Day of the Child with Malignant Disease" is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the materials by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this Decision. The debate was held: the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health and the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? He does. Ante Zvonimir Golem, State Secretary of the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58626	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The international day of a child suffering from cancer is marked on February 15th starting in 2001 and on the initiative of the International Federation of Parents of Children's Parents with Malignant Diseases. In Croatia, the Children's Parents' Club of Malignant Diseases "Sanus" from Split is active, which is also a member of the International Federation of Parents' Children's Parents, which directed the Government of the Republic of Croatia to declare itself on February 15th the National Day of the Child with Malignancies. The government tells this House of Highs that the proposal to declare itself therefore on February 15th the National Day of a child suffering from malignancies. After the accident and malignancies disaster, others are the secondary cause of mortality from children to 16 years of age. Epidemiological data show that over 160 new cases of malignancies occur in millions of children and that the number increases by about 1% annually. In the Republic of Croatia, more than a hundred children suffer from malignancies every year from malignancies. According to the latest data from the Croatian Institute of Public Health in Croatia, 104 newly ill children aged 0 to 14 were registered in 2003, 48 of whom had leukemia and malignant lymphoma and 56 of solid tumours. Malignant disease with other consequences for children and parents can cause both trauma and difficulties in adapting to a new life situation and it is very important to recognise the needs and problems of such patients as well as their families. An important factor is the environment of a sick child because parental love gives the child strength to withstand the treatment procedure. Treatment of malignancies as painful and long-term as it is, however, results in optimism through a percentage of treatment greater than 70%. At the Department of Oncology of the Children's Diseases clinic Zagreb is treated by about 70 children, and in other clinics in KBCs and clinical hospitals are conducted in oncology departments hospital and ambulatory treatment of children from malignancies. Due to the growing interrelationship between parents of children suffering from malignancies, exchange of experience and information is an important way of mutual assistance and support, and therefore imposes also the need for awareness and sensitisation of the entire public about children suffering from malignancies and members of their family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58627	Thank you very much. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? Yeah. President of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health Marko Turic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58628	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, The Committee on Labour and Social Policy and Health at the 47th session of the Committee held on 7 March 2006 discussed the proposal for a decision to declare the National Day of the Child with Malignant Disease to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee discussed the proposal as a home working body in accordance with the powers of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The opening argument was tabled by the applicant's representative. In a brief discussion, the Committee members unanimously supported this Decision. As more than a hundred children suffer from malignancies in the Republic of Croatia each year, the need for awareness and sensitisation of the entire Croatian public about children suffering from malignant diseases, members of their families, is imposed. The provision of adequate care for children with malignant diseases should be one of the priorities of each society. It is very important to recognize the problems of such patients and their families in order to provide them with the help and support they need. The Committee has already advocated the needs of children suffering from cancer by encouraging the competent ministry in which it supported the parents' club's initiative to suffer and treat malignancies in Split. Following the discussion, the Committee members unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly a decision to declare the National Day of the child suffering from malignancies.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58629	Thank you very much. Does he want more... There isn't. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Madam Representative Lucia Chikesh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58630	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Before us is the Government's proposal for a decision to declare the National Day of a child suffering from malignancies. The child normally requires our attention and sacrifice above all parents, then all those who participate in the education, education, and health care of the child and society in general if one serious society thinks about its future. Nor should it be pointed out how much attention the child needs again for a sick child who has suffered from this severe and severe disease. The International Children's Day of Malignancy is also marked on February 15th starting in 2001. It is not unusual or unusual for this initiative to declare the national day of a child suffering from malignancy to come from the parents of these children, from children who are ill and treated with malignancies, and gathered in the SANUS parent association from Slit. This is also a confession for their years of work. They have done a lot for both their children and their parents and children, but mainly for the children's clinic Oncology Department, the children's clinic in Split at the Clinical Hospital Center in Split. They were the first ones who were unaccompanied by happiness, so they faced this great tribulation and in their childhood they had the courage to gather together in association, go public, and experience malignancies in the childhood of their child, watched by their eyes to pass on to others. According to the International Conference, children’s parents’ organisations are suffering from cancer, and founded in Valencia, Spain, in May 1994, today more than 160 children per year on, millions of children suffer from malignancies. Of these, 250 die daily, and in the Republic of Croatia we almost have about 100 cases of malignancies. Malignant diseases are others due to mortality, right behind accidents and car accidents. Assuming that the disease is recognized in time and that the expected healing is started in good time and in good time, throughout the statistics, it is always more than 70%, and for some forms of this disease a percentage of 98% is mentioned. The tragedy is that only 20% of these children have access to modern treatment. Fortunately, this situation is not in the Republic of Croatia. These are, this percentage refers to world scales. It is certain that declaring a national day of a child suffering from malignant malignancies should also be an opportunity to warn of this major health problem to sensitise the public for the problems of children with malignancies, to warn of theirs and not only theirs but also the difficulties and difficulties of their parents. These difficulties are both psychological and psychological and emotional. The difficulties are also physical endurance, and the economic dimension of this problem, both for the family and for society in general, should not be ignored. This is an opportunity to turn to institutions specialised in the treatment of this disease and consider the possibility of establishing a limited number of centres that will deal with this problem, but which will provide the sick children with a humanised stay, a highly sophisticated technique of the best and most effective medicine, a sufficient number of highly educated staff. Now it is also an opportunity to mention that psychological support for these children is lagging behind in these clinics. She's not the only one that needs these kids. They also need their parents, but they also need staff who are doing permanent work with these children in these centers. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will surely support this proposal to adopt and declare the national day of a child suffering from cancer, suffering from malignancies in the hope that our health institutions will greatly improve opportunities for such a population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58631	Thank you very much. On behalf of the PGS Club, SBHS, NDS, Mr. Representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58632	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Here, let me also briefly refer to the decision to declare the national day of the child suffering from malignancies. Of course, we support this decision. So we think that all those children who are unfortunately affected by this disease deserve all our attention. Unfortunately, that's not the case right now. It is symptomatic, therefore, that the proposal for a declaration, that Croatia also declares this day as many other countries, February 15th as the day of the fight against malignancies of the child, is simple, therefore, that the proposal has been given by one association dealing with the aid of those children and families and children. In Croatia, there are two such associations involved. It's a SANUS club, it's a club, it's a parent's association that protects children from malignancies. And there's also "Cress," which is. an association of parents of children suffering from solid tumours. And it would be good, therefore, if the Ministry, the Government, and we here in the Parliament responded indirectly to some of their other initiatives they have been talking about, have been warning for years. Because otherwise, the announcement of this mention will come down to only one simple declaration, because such declarations have already been voted in this House much, and without some great concrete benefits. So what are these clubs and associations warning us about? They warn that they need help getting aids and medicines. They're fighting for the rights of mothers from working relationships. They assist in the exercise of the right of children to regular schooling. Because as we know the treatment is long-term and children are often therefore without a chance to follow the course at school. Here's a part on television the other day, where in Zagreb, Klajic, only now offers the possibility of raising, i.e. education on TV, over TV. Also, what is being warned and advocated for establishing architectural standards adapted to the needs of children. These associations also provide advisory work services by professionals of different profiles but also through mutual assistance and support of parents. These associations also provide humanitarian assistance to parents when possible, and in materially difficult situations relapses and unfortunately the death of a child. The Association of Parents has as basic content sensitizing the public for problems of children suffering from solid tumours, providing adequate professional psychological help to children, as well as their parents, accommodation for parents from other cities during treatment of children, organizes self-help groups for parents. It educates parents on significant medical legal and psychosocial aspects for the purpose of their active engagement and inclusion in the program of improving the quality of their children's lives. It advocates the humanization of hospitals, i.e. to improve the conditions of stay of children in the hospital and organise professional gatherings, etc. etc. So this club and this association have given themselves a large range of jobs to help both children and families. Often they, therefore, cannot do so in their financial strength, so it is time and time for our Ministry of Health and Social Care to take over their role and take all the care of those children, and we have heard them annually and there is not so much, and given their nature of the disease, I think they deserve all our attention. So before I mentioned some of the declarations we accepted here in the Croatian Parliament, one of these declarations is the Declaration on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, and it has just come from the adoption of the Health Insurance Act to an important violation of the rights of disabled children. If you remember the Health Insurance Act, a change has been introduced in this sense that travel costs will only be recognised if more than 100 kilometers from the place of residence so that many disabled children, their parents gave up the treatments they had until the adoption of the law, because they simply could not financially follow, could not pay travel costs for treatment, for treatment in spas or for any other expert. So I appeal to this occasion, and now, that the ministry will change that decision as soon as I say our declarations would not only remain at that declarative level, but to achieve what we ourselves have drawn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58633	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58634	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. My presentation in front of the Croatian People's Party club will be quite different intonated. Namely, our club will support this proposal with four clear not two clear yess. Not because one day a year these children remember, not because one day a year they collect help for those children, not because one day they show our sensitivity and our ethics and not even because, as colleagues said, they sensitize the entire Croatian public. It's not a priority. But sure, yeah. Why is that? To support parents, the Children's Parents' Club is ill and treated with malignant "Sanus" diseases from Split on this wonderful initiative and yes, to recognize the needs and problems of such parents and, such small patients and their families. I'm undermining my colleagues and colleagues here, so I recognize the needs and problems of such patients and their families. One of their needs is to go to chemotherapy every day, go to radio therapy every day. We have here in the Croatian Parliament with the parliamentary majority prevented and made it impossible for travel costs to go to treatment, the daily treatment of these patients and their parents to be covered through health insurance. We did it,...... We're not going back, because if we wanted to return, our HNS proposal has been tied up for months on the agenda pages, always at the end, never arrives and never clearly corrects this recorded error, the visible failure that was made here. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Furthermore, I just want to add a few more sentences. This explanation that my assistant and even my teacher bring something like this to me, and this sort of explanation, not only through the window, but out the window. Here we only have two poor sentences related to little gnomes in children and this only smart sentence recognize the needs and problems of such patients and their families. Nothing else. When the average composition, I look at the age, when the average parliamentary representative sitting here today was in high school benches or in the study, so 25, 30 years ago, then the number of urinary bladder cancers, I will deliberately choose two cancers for which you will be able to monitor, the number of cancers throughout Croatia of the bladder was about a dozen a year. There's a couple of them today a week. The same is the increase in colon cancer. Why did I choose these two cancers? Because what makes them come into existence, why the increase in incidence? It is that what we eat and drink contains substances that are carcinogenic and that have led to this huge difference in the incidence of these diseases. That certainly applies to these little patients. Now my question is as an ordinary citizen, not as a doctor, which is what our Ministry of Health is doing right now, what strategy it is taking to reduce the number of such diseases. I clearly repeat the cause is where, on the shelves of our shops, our large shopping malls, the malignancies are enriched by those who own these large commercial systems. It's about cheap goods, unquality goods, dangerous goods, carcinogenic goods. We know that. What we're doing, I'd really like to know. When we get that proposal of measures, I'd really like to know. Unfortunately, we didn't get any near explanation of what's logical here. It is self-inflicted after such a correct initiative. You should give some more meat to a subject like this, and I think both those children and their parents deserve it absolutely. I'm going to skip this second one to cut short and my colleagues have already said something in that sense, but really here I'm asking you nicely to ask the Ministry, the government to prepare a strategy that it is taking, to really start reducing the number of these diseases because it can be achieved with adequate measures, choosing what we can and cannot sell to our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58635	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club, Ms Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58636	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The SDP club will support this proposal for a decision to declare the National Day of Malignancies. However, I would take this opportunity to say that just like this one day is not enough to show complete care for the sick children. I hope that the state will take much more care of children than it does today because we are unfortunately witnessing that there is no money within the health system for these children and most often certain appliances for their treatment as well as accommodation facilities are being arranged and bought exclusively by donations and collection of money through humanitarian actions. I think this kind of solidarity is good, but I also think it would be good if, within the health system, money was spent more rationally and the state, in particular, the health system and the HZO, would have a lot more money to help children, therefore, suffer from malignancies and to rely as little on humanitarian actions as possible because they are not every time safe in their final outcome. It should be said that, unfortunately, the parents of children who are suffering from malignant diseases who, in the event they are found, therefore, are often incurable to their own child’s disease, must therefore be strengthened with their children and, unfortunately, often do not have enough hearing in their employers. I think that in that part you should raise a level of employers' awareness that they have a little more hearing and a little more sensitivity when it comes to parents who, therefore, care about such seriously ill children. I would also like to say that we are also witnesses to something that I think is unacceptable, which is that often the treatment and health of a child depend on money. Unfortunately, there is no money in the Croatian Health Insurance Office, and we often see through the newspapers that funds are being raised, so donations, so that a child can go to treatment in a foreign country. That is why it seems to me that the state could find certain resources within the health system with a much better quality and well-designed health reform. I think many here are aware, therefore, that, within the health system, a certain amount of money is being spent irrationally and on perhaps unnecessary medicines and on some of the tests that have been done several times and often some of them are not raised by patients. Therefore, money is spent in vain. Therefore, there is a lot of irrationality in this system, and it would be good and desirable if we were to make a good and quality reform there, thus ensuring a certain means that we could aim to improve the health of children who, therefore, need it. And I think that when it comes to sick children, the state should take more care than it does today, and that we should rely less on humanitarian actions as good as they are and as much as they show our solidarity and as much as it is, in some situations, it is not always expected of the state and it is good, therefore, that money is also collected in this way. But once again, I think that the state and under the Constitution have an obligation to take greater care of all children, especially children who are sick and who need adequate health care. And once again, the SDP Club will support this motion for a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58637	Thank you very much. We have one correction, Madame Representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58638	Thank you very much. She would correct a colleague who would say that the state is spending money on unnecessary drugs. I don't think the state's gonna decide that. That the use of medicines and who needs the medicine is determined exclusively by the profession, not by the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58639	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Ms. Representative Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58640	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. By its act of 15 February 2006, the Government of the Republic of Croatia sent the Croatian Assembly of the Proposal for a Decision to declare itself on 15 February the National Day of the Child with Malignant Disease. Such a decision is absolutely supported by the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party and it is a shame that such a proposal has not come much earlier. The government will probably answer that she intervened when she received the initiative from the Children's Parents' Club, who were ill and treated with malignancies. What did parents offer on such an initiative? I am convinced that both the reason and the cause are in relation to the state government and its sensitivity to the problems of children, their parents, and the whole family. Reading the explanation of the proposal for a decision gives the impression that today's government is very sensitive because it says: "Providing adequate care for children suffering from malignancies should be one of the priorities of every society". The government says, "It is very important to recognise the needs and problems of such patients and their families so that adequate assistance can be provided." True, but does the government recognize the needs and problems of such patients? We will be answered that it is, and that is why it proposes to make this decision. It is certain that this House will declare February 15th the National Day of a child suffering from malignant disease, but this does not provide adequate assistance to patients or their parents. This is just moral support, and it's much more necessary materially lagging behind. But not always, but from the amendment and addition of the Health Insurance Act, which was brought to the government's proposal in an emergency procedure by this Parliament in July last year. This Law abolished the right to compensation for travel expenses for the departure of a specialist to those children and their parents. They've run out of help, not just adequate. Although the debate took place in haste, however, it noted the consequences both children and parents will suffer, but the same government and the same ministry that now says "providing adequate care for children suffering from malignancies should be one of the priorities of each society", then stood firm in the view that compensation should be abolished. The explanation was that this is why Croatia has no money. And today the law is in force, and therefore the question arises how to interpret this argument, is that an expression of the true sincere attitude of this government? If so, it is quite certain that the proposal to amend the Health Insurance Act of the SDP Club, which we are already on this agenda, would not be moved backwards because the Government did not give an opinion on it, and this proposal gives these children and their parents the right to compensation for travel expenses, but the Government is silent and does not think that providing adequate care for children suffering from malignancies should be one of the priorities of every society. So we have a very serious gap between what the government says it means and what it does. Both children and parents need moral support, but material support is necessary because without it, many cannot reach a doctor and help him. Why so insensitive to the government, which is under public pressure, who was shocked by the tragedy, expressed her opinion on the measure. A responsible politician would have to feel ashamed and one who suggested such a thing as the one who supported such a proposal with his vote, so here we are if we make this decision today, or on Friday as moral support, then on Friday and the amendments and additions to the Health Insurance Act, which, according to the SDP Representatives' Club's proposal, is on the agenda. This will be the necessary material support. The government says it imposes the need for awareness and sensitisation of the entire Croatian public about children suffering from malignancies and members of their families. Who do we fool with this kind of explanation? The Croatian public is very sensitized, and this is what it has shown and proved. The only one who is not sensitized is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The public was very sensitized, colleagues and colleagues, let's read the newspaper, the government that it was sensitized would not have submitted a proposal to abolish travel expenses and, most of the time, to those who cannot pay those travel expenses. We now have a bill to amend this provision and instead of having discussed this Bill proposal now, the Law has been moved from the 10th point to the 25th point of the agenda, which indicates that we are not going to discuss it recently. The public was very sensitized in the case of stationers in the Golden Cekina in Slavonski Brod. More than 800 children from Virovitica, Slatine, Jasenovac, Okučana, Davor, Donji Miholjc, Našic, Valpova, Osijek, Beli Manastir, Županje, Gradišče, Tovarnik, Bošnjak, Djeletovac, Lipovac, Vukovar, Ilok, etc. Despite this, dear fellow, you'd have to worry, the stationer was closed at the beginning of last year and you know what? Because the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance has ceased to pay off the costs of his work. Through it, the government did not appreciate the fact that the stationary was the only institution of that kind in that part of Croatia and that it had been gravitated by millions of inhabitants. Because of his closure, many parents gave up on the treatment of their children because Zagreb and Goljak far from them 200 to 300 kilometers were... far away. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here is the example of the sensitivity of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and ultimately the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party supports the declaration of 15 February to the National Day of the Child with malignancies, but not as a way to wash and appease the conscience of those whose will and proposal and children and parents are left without the right to compensate for the travel costs they have for treatment. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58641	Thank you very much. Let's calm down, everyone has a right to get a word, answer a replica or something, and there's no point in throwing it out of the bench. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, Mrs. Representative Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58642	Here I would only correct one incorrect quote from my colleague Lalić although there was a lot of it and can't stop at this short time. She said, referring mainly to this provision on travel orders that 100 kilometers, that the government was silent about what was not true. The chairman of the commission, Hebrang himself announced that this decision would be corrected and that it was not wisely made so that, and looking here and citing these children that we can only say here that most of these children still go to larger centres like Zagreb and so that, in fact, here was the largest part of them was nevertheless covered by this 100km warrant so that so many children were still not covered, but I say there was no good solution to any of this which was proposed and which was now in force about these 100 kilometers and it was said to be corrected.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58643	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Ms. Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58644	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague hurt Article 209 correcting my exact assumption that the correction itself actually confirmed her inaccuracy. The government is silent because she refused to give an opinion on the bill, and we only have an announcement. Therefore, it is true that the compensation of travel expenses was abolished under the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and it is true that the Government did not give an opinion on the law which proposes the reintroduction of compensation as material support to those who, according to the Government itself, should be particularly concerned because it is a very sensitive part of the population of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58645	Thank you very much. What is said in the debates, namely the agenda point is the declaration of the National Day of the Child with Malignant Disease, and you've directed 90% of your exposure by attacking the Government, so don't move those tables, if I were to stick to the Rules of Procedure, then I'd be one five times warning you to stick to the agenda, and I'm not. Individual debates are in order. And the first is Mr. Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his right. The second one's up, Mr. Drago Prgomet. He's not here either. He's losing his right to debate. Then, Madam Representative Vesna Škulić. Here you go, ma'am!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58646	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Secretary of State! Maybe I won't be very close to the agenda, but I'll talk about children's rights in general. The proposal for a decision to declare the National Day of a child suffering from malignancies should affect us as a society to examine our attitude and our real support to children not only who have had malignancies but generally with children who are under constant care and care because of any illness and their parents face countless administrative difficulties and insensitivity of the system, no matter how much we say that we are socially sensitive and that our concern for the youngest members of society is first. Many documents have been brought that protect and promote the rights of the child, and each such document places a special emphasis on sick children and children with developmental difficulties. The Convention on the Rights of the Child is the most signed convention of all adopted. In the preamble of the Charter of Rights of the Child, which was passed on November 20, 1959, when the Day of Rights of the Child was declared, there is a sentence: "A man owes children the best he has. Children have the right to equality, to education, to non-violent education, to freely express their opinions, information and to be heard, to protect against economic and sexual exploitation, to play and to spare time, to parent care, to protection in war and during flight, to special care for children with developmental and health problems." Despite the fact that these rights have been studied through all international documents and documents on child rights still in the world over 2 million children have died in wars in the last ten years, over 10 million children from around the world have severe psychological damage as a consequence of war, 30 million children living in war areas and in 26 countries the world is children below 15 years of age soldiers on assignment. Therefore, it is necessary to approach the recognition of the specific needs of children and young people in greater detail and with more obligations. It is very difficult to talk about the context of children’s rights when children’s rights are violated daily. Newspapers are full of articles on violence and sexual abuse of children, inadequate health care, etc. And the children's guardian's institution is not working. The following of the above will not be so soon regrettable. Parents of sick children still pay travel expenses when taking their child to treatment or treatment procedures. Mr. Vice President, please provide me with the terms. Thank you very much. So much for our interest in children. What can we, as a society, do for children who are hospitalized or spend most of their lives in a hospital? It is easy to see and recognize numerous inappropriate treatment for children in hospitals. The separation of children from parents especially during the course of the innovative procedures. Adversity in a hospital that has an adverse effect on the child, withholding pain-inflicted means due to fear of habitation, withholding the child and informing parents about the explanations of the disease and the way it is treated, inappropriate use of painful diagnostic and therapeutic procedures. The British Children's Well-being Association at the hospital made a list of children's rights in the hospital. The list was included as part of the European Parliament at a meeting in Strasbourg in May 1998. Children should be admitted to hospital treatment if care for a sick child cannot be carried out in his family environment. Admired children have the right to have their parents with them whenever it's in the children's interest. For this, parents need to be able to stay together with children in the hospital, help them and encourage them to stay with children in order to be able to take part in the care of their children, have to be properly informed about the activities of the children’s ward and healthcare professionals must encourage care for their children. Children or their parents must be entitled to cooperate on medical procedures. Each child should be assured of unnecessary tests, surgical procedures, and other actions that may cause physical or mental discomfort. Children must be treated with a sense of respect for their personality. Children should be cared for by appropriate qualified staff who are familiar with both physical and mental needs of children of different ages. The child in the hospital should be provided with the possibility of using his or her own clothes and other personal items. Treatment of children should take place in children’s wards where children are equal age groups. Children should be treated in an environment that is equipped to meet the needs of a child and that meets the standard of safety and supervision. Children must be able to play, relax and learn adjusted age and health. In the Republic of Croatia, more than a hundred children suffer from malignancies every year. In some cases, malignancies are another cause of child mortality. The oncology department of the Pediatrics clinic hospitalizes about 70 children with a diagnosis of haematological disease or malignant tumour and, according to the world statistics of three children in the department, two are cured. In Klaic's hospital, about 70% of children in the Republic of Croatia are treated. In 2004, 54 children were admitted to the department and 19 died that same year. Treatment is painful and the average duration of successful treatment is between eight and twelve months. However, it comforts the fact that some tumors account for more than 70% of the treatment rate. Thus, a major financial problem is imposed on families in addition to shock and disease, and it is very difficult to find help in the purchase of medicines and cytostatics. There are only two city dwellings that the associations of parents of sick children have received for use or organised accommodation for families living outside Zagreb and children are being treated in Klaic's hospital. Also, the Krestnica Association addresses the issue of parent nutrition that are constantly with their child in the hospital. Money helps parents who have found themselves in an unsustainable financial situation because of a child’s illness. It addresses the issue of paying transportation for parents who are forced to travel frequently, participates in resolving health insurance for unregulated families, encourages institutions to resolve the social status of families facing malignancies of the child, aids in the cost of the child's funeral. The association participates in the procurement of devices and equipment for the oncology department and all of this through donations and symbolic memberships. I'm interested and I believe the parents of the sick children, and the children themselves, who receive the declaration of February 15th on the day of the child suffering from malignancies? Will it be just one of the days on which we will determine this already listed or unchanged condition? Will the state continue to solve children's problems with humanitarian actions and the announced foundation of foundations? When will the resolution ministries finally take care of what they are responsible for and not hide behind this day and leave it to associations and parents again that, apart from the fact that they have a child with malignancies, they must take over the burden of co-financing of medicines and cytostatic accommodations and everything that the disease brings? For the sake of support of parents and children, I will vote in favour of this proposal for a decision to declare the National Day of a child suffering from malignancies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58647	Thank you very much. We have several replicas and corrections. First the replica of Mrs. Jagoda Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58648	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm not going to replicate the scale of your exposure, but I'd certainly replicate the tone, the diabolical tone when you asked to ensure your terms and then say a sentence, "So much about our interest here." Yes, it is. So much for our interest, look here on the left is sitting twenty, twenty-five as much as I've counted. Look how many of them are sitting on your side. So much for our interest in this subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58649	Mrs. Vesna Škulic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58650	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, how to interpret, I think I'm stupid enough to even comment on this situation. How to interpret while one is talking about 10 people talking at the same time. So much for the interest in the topic we're talking about tonight, about our sensitivity to those we should be most sensitive to and at least respectfully listen to what we have to say about them. And on which side he has, I don't want to count at all anymore, but I just want to give an emphasis on what we're talking about and what way and what dignity we're talking about. Thank you very much. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58651	Replica Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58652	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, I responded to the replica of my dear colleague Škulić because I could not bear the fact that despite the intervention and the requests for help to make peace in the hall when he spoke about this important topic, it was not possible to do so. After learning that a child is suffering from malignancy, families change their lives and standards of life, often involving young parents who are having difficulty coping with other existential difficulties. It's in the explanation of the Government's proposal. The mere mention of the fact of the problems of financial nature in this hall has caused jam, disdain and protests Really, really, really [[The intruders don't understand.]] It really speaks about how sensitive we are when we mention the word sensitivity or insensitivity of the government. [[So what?]] But we don't read government documents. And I address you, dear colleague Škulić on February 15th next year. Let us together prevent any attempt by all politicians who will want to take pictures of themselves in front of these children, in front of cameras and cameras that show care for these children on that day alone and invite the media to ignore them all until these children are supplied, provide health care and help parents to live and raise such children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58653	The answer of the lady... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58654	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Lesar, I agree with you in everything you have said because I think it is extremely hypocritical to speak and declare February 15th on the day of a child suffering from malignancies, at the same time ignoring the needs and problems and children and parents, as well as various discards when talking about the sensitivity or insensitivity of the Government. We all know how to read well, and we all know that there is a law that still regulates the situation as it is. That travel costs are not paid to parents or children living over, over, less than 100 kilometers from where they go to therapeutic treatment. No matter how much you yell about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58655	Thank you. Replica. Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58656	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Škulić, you asked yourself what children are getting on this day? And I fully understand that one, both yours and everyone's care for the children, especially when they're sick. I'd like to answer that. They're getting another instrument that'll be of use to them. It's useful on their hard way with their sick kid. Therefore, it is proclaimed this day and dedicated. And now I'd like to say one more sentence about this presentation of yours in general. So I don't understand why at all, why are we even facing this issue? Well, this day is the day of every child and healthy and sick. And every family because no one is excluded or protected from the disease. No one is guaranteed to have a sick child the next day. So I really don't see any reason for us to discuss things differently down there to be consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58657	Mrs. Vesna Škulic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58658	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Bagaric, I don't think for a moment that none of us have been or will be against the declaration of February 15th on the day of the child suffering from malignancies. The way is just to look at it, the perception of that day. So what's really going to happen that day? How much we as a society, how much we as advocates will affect the work of the government and you as a position and I as an opposition to bring quality and enforceable laws that will benefit these children. Not just these children who have malignancies, but their children who are sick.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58659	Thank you. Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Kajo Butan.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58660	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you said in your statement that children should be provided with unnecessary procedures and diagnostic tests. So imputing it might be someone doing it. I responsibly claim that it is absolutely none of those professionals who work in their own country that no one has ever done it. Especially with the kids. And secondly, to allow them to be treated in children's wards in the same age groups. So you can't give a flat-rate assessment to allow treatment, for example. someone with an eye or ear tumor in a child's ward in the same age group. Well, he's being treated by organic systems, or diseases, not diseases. The debate in this segment was casual and incorrect. [[Intruder: Amateur.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58661	Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Marko Turic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58662	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I simply have to contact an esteemed representative and correct the incorrect assumption. She said that we're dealing with the things of our little patients that are so sensitive to all the special donations. It is fortunate that it is not so, and fortunately I must tell you as a clinician and whatever is their most highly qualitative and quality institution in Croatia, that it is not the situation we have heard so far. And that's what I'll tell you at the end when I get my turn. And I'm correcting that it's incorrect that donations are in charge. I'm just gonna say one thing now. Right now in my facility, and there's a lot of these where a linear accelerant is placed, a sophisticated technique costs 11 million, an electron producer that is therapeutic moderation for all ages and young children. And this one from Klaic's at our house for the tumour clinic is being treated. And fortunately not to buy donations. So, about the apparatus, about expensive drugs and about going abroad. Every procedure comes to my house where the Connollier decides whether we are valid to settle it in Croatia or send it. And we don't deny anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58663	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I think we're a little out of this whole frame. I'd like to go back to the agenda, exactly as the point is, because assuming that there were unfortunately malignant tumours in children before, not now since February 15th. It was before 2000, after 2000, and no one prevented the government of Zlatko Matesha and Ivica Racan from proposing a declaration this day before this government. Right? Let's move on. Ms. Representative Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58664	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, there's really been an unnecessary and unpleasant debate. I don't think we should go that way, and I'm going to come back and say just what's real and give my opinion. I will certainly support this proposal to declare the national day of the child a disease of malignancies as only one, as only one type of support for children, children and their family who have found themselves in these difficulties. But we heard today, and I would still say that fortunately, many of these diseases are being successfully treated, some 70, 80, and even 90 and 95%, depending on the type of tumor and depending on the time it was discovered. Of course, what we say is important is that we sensitize the public. We need to sensitize the public and these are the kind of days they serve. We have other days, non-smoking days, and many others. I wouldn't want this day to pass as well as one to think of it a little bit or no way. We can see that these children are unfortunately enough. That a million children have 160 new cases, that the Institute of Public Health in the Cancer Register, and often I will say malignancies, that 104 are newly registered, but here it counts from 0 to 14 years. And that 48 children had leukemia and malignant lymphones and 56 children with solid tumours. Here, when we talk about malignancies, we certainly need to highlight primary prevention. Prevention of children who are hard to carry out after all. There's even more to focus on timely discovery, but when it comes to adults, I would still, since it's an important problem with us, bring some data. When we talk about the standardized mortality rate of malignant neoplasms of age and between 0 and 64 years of age and 64 years of age, it means to the total population, then we see that this number is slightly higher than the average in the European Union. However, how important is this prevention that I was saying earlier also says that the standardized mortality rate of cancer from the neck of the womb, but also from breast cancer is below the European average. Here, it may be for us to be proud, but it certainly must not satisfy us in that sense that we are not even better and more advanced. So it's primarily a matter of prevention, timely detection. And here's another thing I'd like to say is that the preventive checks in 2004 as if it weren't all this if the malts hadn't been destroyed in these last two years, there's been a newspaper of preventive checks on persons over the age of 45 who were 18 thousand 856, but we need to say right now that they respond 20 to 30% when they're called in and that 450 cases mean tumors have been detected suspicious of small gnomes. So here we see how important prevention is, how important is enlightenment and how important is sensitization. After this prevention and timely detection, treatment is certainly important. In some discussions, the idea that these children were truly left to donations and that government and government were treated hypocritically. Which I don't think really deserves any comment. I would say quite responsibly that all accepted treatment protocols, it is important to emphasise, all accepted treatment protocols apply to us. And when donations occur and such a way of collecting funds certainly come well, but certainly not intended for a basic type of treatment but perhaps for aid in material condition or some additional treatment methods. As Professor Turic also said when going abroad, we who deal with health care, and you will allow us to know more about it, and when going abroad that there must be a relevant recommendation for an institution that deals with this type of treatment and if they recommend and there has never been an obstacle to such treatment outside. Therefore, I think that we should not send these messages, harass parents and children suffering from these diseases but rather send them encouragement and our encouragement to be encouraged to treat diseases successfully, to have the necessary treatment methods and methods of treatment available and to rely fully on our health care. And when it comes to sensitizing the public and general assistance, I don't think that's what we should rely on just that it's the government, it's the ministries, it's the whole society and we ourselves. What we have advocated, what we have invested in helping in this case. It certainly means there is needed help, solidarity is needed and understanding is needed. I know and our parents within my county organized themselves, bought an apartment in Zagreb with the help of donations, with the help of collection. I don't think buying apartments and it certainly doesn't fall within the framework of the government's ministries and frameworks, and that's one help that such parents need, and it certainly does come in handy. And it's good for them to organize and help each other, it's good that we all help each other. But we need a whole society to encourage it, I know when it comes to adults, when we need to start associations to help each other, to encourage and better to be more successful in treatment and exchange experiences, I have to say that few people are interested in it. So it's wrong and I think it's wrong that we're only creating one negative picture of all of us, and we're also critical of the government by thinking of getting some positive points, but we do think that we should all go from ourselves, what we can do ourselves, and our legislation is certain that, in this sense, our health care does maximum in this regard, and that certainly no child has the need to be deprived or deprived of treatment. And when it comes to these 100 kilometers, I don't think it's worth discussing anymore, that the announced changes to that decision that will definitely come, and I say one part of the children, but fortunately, a good part of the children live over 100 kilometers, so they could use that kind of protection so far. And here's what I'm going to say, in the end, is that I'm going to conclude that we need to concentrate and be the message of this on prevention and timely detection, which is this sensiblization of the public when it comes to treatment, and I think that all relevant medicines are in the treatment protocol, that this fund that's being set up for expensive drugs will still contribute to that. That our children and other inhabitants should not be deprived of it no matter how much it costs. Here I read yesterday about three medicines in the treatment of the most severe diseases at Klyceva Children's Diseases Clinic in 2005 spent 2.3 million kuna. But I think it's for such things and for such treatment money must be and so here's what we need to support one such decision, not as something revolutionary but only as one kind of support and sensitization of the public that we all get involved in helping out as much as it can help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58665	Replica, the esteemed representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58666	So I'm replicating that somewhere near the end of my colleague Lelic said about one sentence, so here's when it comes to these travel expenses, so we don't really have to discuss it at all, because here's the government announced it's going to put the government back, and you see I still think that's exactly what we need to discuss, and here's what this decision is about, which we're all going to support, that's for sure, about declaring a national day. But it doesn't amnesty the government that passed a law last year that justifies parents of such children the compensation for transport to the place of treatment. So in the meantime, the government announced a trust, and then under pressure I hope the public has given up that trust and now it says we'll bring it up as part of the overall health reform. And I ask when. And if it hasn't brought that up by now, then why aren't the proposals that came out of the opposition to return that fee or in the end line could have been rewritten and that part of the amendments we made and could and could have already been reimbursed again. These parents, who are taking a lot of money for treatment and taking care of those children anyway, certainly don't sound nice when you say it right now absolutely doesn't need to talk about it because the government, who knows when, will bring about changes to that law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58667	The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative, Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58668	... It should not be debated in that sense that it is irrelevant. [[Specially enabled.]] We cannot expect any government to be infallible, but the government must be responsible, and this government is responsible and has shown that it is responsible for what it has seen if something is not a good solution to correct this solution and we cannot now say that these children are fundamentally threatened because of a travel order. There are all other kinds of treatments available to them in...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58669	Honorable representative Kajo Butan.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58670	Your Honor, Mr. President, Secretary of State. Right away, I personally support my colleagues from the club, and as some say, you didn't deserve to be thrown out of the window, let alone the door slamming over a proposal like this. In fact, both the Government and you who are on behalf of it, you deserve praise for this, for this motion for a decision. I will provide a number of epidemiological data from the world that support this decision to be made in our Croatia as well. It said in a proposal for a decision to appear somewhere around 160 cases. That's usually said for undeveloped countries. For developed countries like the United States, it's 125 cases per million people. For one Nigeria, it is 155 cases a year, and for one population on an island near India, it is about 40 people per million people. In Europe, one such disease occurs on 500 to 600 children before the 15th year of life. Half of these patients, so 50% of them have less than five years of age and something that still suggests professional statistics that the risk of another tumour occurring in such individuals is somewhere between 8 and 10% in the next 20 years. Why am I listing this statistical data? So I quote them and for another reason not only do you all know that children are not only small adults but also because we are exposed to external influences, external factors, various chemical factors that can cause these diseases to be sensitive to a sensitive genetic background. So it is said that one of these compounds is dioxins. Dioxins are chemical compounds that cause one of the most common childhood malignancies, which are leukemia. I would like to warn you once again from this place, that two cities, Solina and Kaštela, have made a decision two or three years ago against the decisions of the city councils of the two cities, Solina and Kaštela, about the use of coal in the production of cement in the Dalmatia Cement plant as a fuel plant. That despite the opposition of the city councils, these two cities were made such a decision. It is not only coal, waste oils and other substances used as fuel. And now these city councils are warning of increasing the emissions of harmful gases, especially dioxins and praying to the inspector-in-chief after receiving data from the Public Health Office to be screened and still waiting for months to respond. In order not only for this day to be a day for us to sensitize the public, let it be for all the days of the year, but in a way that we do it by protecting the environment and not having these things happen to us. Because it's much better this way to act preventively than to single out. Of course it's supposed to stand out for all those cases, but there'll be fewer. And from this place I'd just like to congratulate all those who are dealing with the treatment of these children's malignancies. Not only on their professional and professional work but also on their humanitarian work when they launch many actions that collect charity contributions, equip their units of intensive treatment and thus contribute to the health of children. And as for travel expenses, and yesterday on the Health Committee, it was said, so colleagues and they could hear it, that the new Health Insurance Bill proposal corrects this data and it is good to correct that mistake because it is no longer a mistake, it becomes an advantage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58671	Dear Representative Marko Turic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58672	Dear Mr. President, allow me at the very beginning to look back at some of the expressions that in this column and this problem. There were tumors in Racan's time too, there were tumors as we heard during Matesha's government and Valentiæ's. And if you want to, then I need to know, and what I know, so don't be offended, I don't care, I'd tell you, tumors appear, they're discovered by historians as much as possible by human race, there's a sign of tumor somewhere. So much for history. The World Health Organization has informed us that 57 million people die annually, 7 and a half million of them from tumors. Medical analysts say that the tumour disease currently located in the second place by appearance will now go first behind the cardiovascular, cardiac, and that this century will be marked with a tumor. Even millenniums. Here's how optimistic they look at the cure for the tumor. That's our reality. What does that mean for Croatia? For Croatia, gentlemen, it means that every year, 23,000 people suffer from tumors. So the incidence of occurrence is 23 thousand. And I'm going to tell you something right now, exactly what we've all been saying all along and expressing our great sensitivity to it. When a family member is ill with tumors, the whole family is also sick. Even friends if they're friends. And when all of this is taken, and a 5-year survival is taken, and that is 60% of how effective oncology is today, then you will come very quickly at this time to 4 and a half million people in Croatia somewhere one 400 to 500 thousand people infected in this way with a tumor. You can imagine what a health problem this is, and of course a social and sociological problem. So what we're saying is that someone more exciting, someone in one way or another, is justifiable. All this is necessary, but earlier I said while correcting the distinguished representative Škulić that it is fortunate that it is not as it was heard here today. I can testify for a simple reason because that's what I've been doing for almost a lifetime. In Croatia already in 1966, I have to mention it for the people who made a pioneer leap and founded the Cancer League and were already following what was happening in the world. And if that was the first in Europe to testify that two years after that in Dubrovnik, at our call, our experts, I must mention one name primarily, it is the academic Padovan founded association of European cancer societies. Therefore, Croatia has something to say and show in this sense, and it has thanks to God and results. I'm sure it wasn't sleeping or standing behind it, it was like people were educated, people were teaming up. The attitude that is in the world today, and when it comes to malignancies, which is a multidisciplinary approach, one united approach where the patient is in the center and all the services around him. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And even a tram when it's driving, it's got to go past those, I'm saying it's because someone's thinking that the oncology house that's now in town is moving behind Sljemen, etc. It means to take away these people's hopes, but to separate them somewhere or to put them in some kind of hallway or I don't know underneath, etc. Nothing can happen, they must be in very high quality space, very quality to have a health square, and of course top experts with modern equipment. Fortunately and thank God I have to tell you there was a time when we haven't had much to do with it, but now I can say that somehow lately I won't take away the secretary of state from the possibility that if he wants to say it, but that only last year we invested more than 30 million in equipment to treat these patients. Here I am just a little general, but this is all telling me to do something else now. That our medics, people who deal with oncology, oncology patients are a lasting concern, so ever since they were born and I don't know for 150 years, if they are who they are, or from early detection, and to the end, one part of modern science can't even solve and these end unfortunately unwanted by an oncologist doctor, and the family itself. Therefore, this lasting concern forces us to care for both children and the elderly, so children are paediatric oncology, older geriatric etc. That I don't go into the width of all this. Therefore, it is very good that an association has now come forward... from Split who represents these children, so fortunately 107 of them last year is somewhere over a hundred it is of course a large number that has, and there are other associations about lyphoma, about people who are operated, women who are operated... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] , laryngectomy without throat etc. And of course we accept this to accept this and to mark this, but not just because we're going to solve it, but to be one memory for all those who lead the health care and us when something comes to question, because when it comes to some football stadium, then we all love somewhere and take pictures and give a pain and advocacy, etc., and when it comes to this kind of thing, it's kind of like the fear of all of us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I will end up with a wish so that we as our Committee and I are at the head of the Committee after I've contacted this association... We passed on to our ministry a request like this and you see they've reacted in a way that we're going to get involved in this actually National Day of Children with Malignancies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58673	Thank you. Honorable representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58674	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. I absolutely join all colleagues who are ill with malignancies to declare the National Day of the Child. I agree with the fact that this declaration will also sensitize the public for the problems of these difficult children not only for the problems of children but also for the problems of families, parents, so those closest to them. Why do I advocate that sensitization and advocate? We are all witnessing that when we have a healthy family, then nothing happens to anyone, of course, to someone else who is sick. So we should also sensitize those who have no idea about it and tell them that this is a really big problem today in our society because if malignancies are by number another cause of death that is worrying. If 160 are newly ill to one million, or if 1% of the population rises annually, then we can also ask ourselves what leads to such disease and how our small patients are treated. So immediately beyond that, there is also prevention. No family is immune. Today we have AIDS Day, we have the Day of Persons with Disabilities, etc. That I don't count, so that's what we raised our hand for, and that's what we stood for. So then we talked about sensitizing the public, about prevention, about treatment and about the need to help such people, and of course it also brings certain results. In the Oncology Department, 80% of children are treated. Treatment of malignant diseases is on average 8 to 12 months, and sometimes only then do we see and learn about the weaknesses of the health system. I am sorry that my colleague Škulić spoke about healthcare in such a dictionary, we must warn that parents are with children, we must tell them not to give aggressive methods, diagnostics, therapy. Unfortunately, malignancies have suffered such a disease where you really have to use both aggressive therapy and aggressive diagnostics sometimes, but trust me, all families, parents are familiar with the way and the way such children are treated. There are no cytostatics that this child will not receive in the hospital and for which the Croatian Health Insurance Institute will not allocate funds. Of course, it's about increasing the limit and creating a new fund just for those drugs that will then, whose cost will not enter the hospital's limit. Let me really praise this occasion, too, the activities of an association such as "Crescent" and such as "Brave Heart". There should be such associations as fellow Marco said there are other and other diseases. To praise their actions in addressing health insurance issues for the family of unregulated status, for education of parents in areas related to malignant diseases through lectures of experts of different profiles, they organize doctors, psychiatrists, psychologists and educators. They organize psychological help for parents and brothers and sisters who never trust me enough even though he got from medical staff. They produce and distribute educational brochures for children for parents. I remember their brochures talking to the child about the disease extremely well, the days at the hospital how to spend, answering children's questions about death, how to say goodbye, etc. He sensitizes the public for family problems faced with malignant diseases and we are witnessing the organisation of a series of exhibitions, concerts and other things not to list any further. Certainly, the declaration of the National Day of the Child of Malignant Diseases indicates to each of us in a way that we can help and do something and with one goal to improve the quality of life of children with malignancies and help both during and after hospital treatment whether it is psychological or social or health care. And let me take part in this debate because it's my personal wish as well as my counsel and also as a doctor and even more as a mother to help such children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58675	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Vesna Škulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58676	Thank you, Mr. President. You're such an esteemed colleague. If you'd listened to me then you and your colleagues when I asked for conditions to be granted then you'd have heard that I said that the British children's welfare association at the hospital made a list of the rights of the child in the hospital. The list was included as part of the European Parliament at a meeting in Strasbourg in May 1998, so I listed what they put on the list adopted by the European Parliament. And then I started counting the children should be admitted to treatment at the hospital and everything else that you didn't hear because of your comments and what you talked about, and that's why I asked for my terms to be granted. Thank you very much. Excuse me, my time. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here, I'll give you. So, exactly my words. The British Children's Well-being Association at the hospital made a list of children's rights in the hospital. The list was included as part of the European Parliament at a meeting in Strasbourg in May 1998. Children should be admitted to hospital treatment if care for a sick child cannot be carried out in his family environment etc. So nothing is my fiction but I downloaded what the British association brought for the benefit of children voted in Strasbourg in May 1998. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58677	Peace. The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58678	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague, I have listened very well to you and I have listened to your standards of what must be in the world organization, according to British regulations, etc. But believe me, all the world's regulations guaranteed with therapy and everything else exists in our hospital. And don't worry about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58679	Honorable representative Nikola Mak.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58680	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! The most frightening thing that can happen in the life of a young creature and his family is when he gets the evidence that he has a tumor or some other serious disease. With that knowledge and that knowledge, you go to sleep, dream lead dreams, and wake up. And he's wondering what we're gonna do today? We have to go to work, we have to provide for existence. And who's going to take care of my child, who's going to give him that day care, etc.? Thank God, Croatian society has resolved this within the limits of its opportunities not only in democratic Croatia today but also in previous times so that social care is absolutely evident and therefore society provides this very important support to both children and those parents, and even to neighbors that Mr Turic said that this does not include only that child and his closest family but also includes a much wider circle of people. And that is why this initiative is absolutely welcome to be acceptable to everyone and I have no doubt about the outcome of the vote on that day. However, I would like to take this opportunity to say one more thing about sick children. It's not just a tumor that's affecting children. We have a whole series of other diseases affecting children from diabetes and venous diabetes, from Down syndrome, from dystrophy, from deaf-blind children, from heart defects, and unfortunately today we have many children who are unhappy in car accidents and therefore remain permanent disabled in the same way as we are talking about children with malignant diseases today. And let me suggest, on this occasion, that within the Ministry of Health, within these various associations that exist for these children and for these diseases, we consider a day that we would declare in this House on the day of these sick children with the fact that, normally and further, these individual days remain for malignant children or, as is the case with diabetics, in diabetics and probably with these other associations. Well, take it from me and this initiative so that it can be worked out over time and in this way we get a comprehensive sensitization of what we've been saying here about how to help the children and distract them and not parade on those days, but to sum up on those days what we've done within a year and what we're going to do and what we're planning to do for the next year in that field. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58681	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Marko Turic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58682	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed representative said that the Croatian state responds to a small patient according to its options. Well, then you'd be able to read out of this so modestly. And I assure you, it will now be very soon for you to understand that it meets the world's greatest standards of oncology science. Why? I used to tell you what kind of appliances we have. It's not our two million-dollar machines, or the euro for radiation and drugs, we give the same drugs, we don't have our own drugs. We're buying from Switzerland, America, etc. And our people in my house have to spend every year at one of the world's oncology institutes. So let us be happy and I am personally very pleased and I am glad that this is the situation that we have in Croatian society. And don't worry, you can leave tonight here just calm about the therapy. And of course, we'll support this, never having enough anxiety and feelings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58683	Replica is a respected representative of Jagoda Majska-Martinčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58684	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would use this replica to kind of overreach myself or even thank my distinguished colleague, Mr Mak, and support his initiative, but not just the initiative, but also the way he approached this problem. Which wasn't really supposed to be a problem today. The topic of this debate was actually supposed to be something else. And all that has been troubled is the question and the problems of some other laws, provisions and so on. However, Mr. Mak has approached this subject in a very human way. He didn't politicize her, he didn't use her for politics as it could be heard today during the debate, and I really think that this proposal this day, a child's day of malignancy should just unite us all in support of this idea, and everything else can be left for some other debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58685	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of Ante Markov. ... Hey, buddy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58686	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. So here I sit here all the time from the beginning of the debate and listen carefully to everyone who has spoken in this way of course not as a doctor because I am not but as a parent to contribute personally to understanding and to make a contribution to this debate at the level of what we are discussing. To deprive her of her elevated tones. Because children especially do not agree with sick children and do not like raised tones. You know the worst part is, maybe it's the worst thing you can experience in life to testify about not giving God a sick child you can't help. It's probably the worst. And maybe at some level it's even worse than when the same sick kids in the debate politicians use to fight each other. Maybe that's worse. In my view, therefore, this debate should have one deep human character devoid of any possible policy, any possible assessment in which children can be questioned. Because today we're talking about kids. Of course I agree you should do absolutely anything and should return all those institutes and institutions that will help those children. It is necessary to do everything at a practical level, at a practical level, within the Resoring Ministry. Of course, colleagues did not say that malignancies are the only diseases that can wait for every child, every parent. There are also a lot of dangerous, many of these diseases, and I think this year there was one whole series of accidents during the birth of children when due to respiratory organs and inability to have these child respirators came into trouble and died unfortunately. I think in Osijek there were children. Such instruments unfortunately have relatively little alone in Zagreb. For example, a large number of children should not have died, and let's say this is an opportunity to show the secretary of state that everything that can be done can be done at least in the central capitals of Split, Rijeka, Osijek, Zagreb, in Zagreb, there is already such supplies. Our concern for all the sick children, clearly today we are talking about children with malignancies, means the most severe disease. Our concern is to do everything. How do you do everything? As advocates, we can strive to impose such a simple rhythm through the laws, and we can bear witness to it personally. We can respond, we can organize, we can help. On the day that we declare as a national day of the child we can determine that we will all make our daily salary or two days' wages, we first all parliamentary representatives or three salaries, let's agree as people to agree that in the day that we declare two, two days' wages that belong to us will be paid to that Fund. We Parliamentarians. And that's one declaration we bring together. Let's make a deal to do it as people. We don't need to write amendments to get over this. And it will testify that we have changed our relationship and the public will differently perceive this whole debate. I like that this debate didn't go through TV screens because it's not a good message, no matter how legitimate criticism or action or reactions are, but it's just not to be discussed in an elevated tone. That's why I think I'd point out that we try to make a contribution ourselves to giving up pieces of what we certainly can without, which is about 1000 kuna, and that on the day of the declaration or on the day when the national day of the child is marked by malignancies, we give our public contribution as people, as advocates, as persons. Thank you very much. [[Good work, buddy.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-09-0.u58687	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Resume tomorrow at 9:30. The status of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency continues in line with the agenda. The proposal for a decision to declare the National Day of the child suffering from malignancies is put to the vote of the Proposed Decision. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 96 votes in favour and 2 abstentions, the proposed decision was made.
