ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75715	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Here is the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government. What was wanted to do with this and this bill? First of all, for a long time in discussions in Croatia, there has been an uneven distribution of two basic sources of income primarily units of local self-government and two types of income shared between local self-government and state units. Such a bill is how to say for a long time in some public debate and many political party proposals have gone in the same or similar direction and allow me to propose, on behalf of the Government, changes to the laws that would first and foremost bring two things. One is a different distribution from income tax and profit tax and the other is the denial of a portion of income belonging to the State. In this way, the income of local self-government units would be increased. Overall, according to the analyses made at the Ministry of Finance, there would be a redistribution of about 800 million kuna towards units of local self-government and I want to speak plainly here that the question of the City of Zagreb has been raised and as the biggest loser in this bill. You know that based on the Income Tax Act, income tax is paid according to the place of residence of the recipient and income tax is paid according to the headquarters of the company that pays the tax on profits. Unfortunately, the uneven development of the Republic of Croatia is the consequence of the war when virtually during those war years, when 33, 34% of Croatia was occupied, all economic activity took place practically in two cities. In one part of Rijeka and Istria, Istria County, the other part was around the City of Zagreb and otherwise the most profitable companies, so financial institutions, fixed and mobile telephony companies, usually have headquarters in the capitals so in the strongest economic centres. So when you look at who are at this moment the strongest companies in the Republic of Croatia for profit then you will see that they are "T-Mobile" and "HT", "INA", "Croatia", "HEP". They all have their headquarters in the City of Zagreb by nature. Based on the Profit Tax Act, normally they pay profit tax in the City of Zagreb and when you look at a little analysis not for the last year but the last few years of the total part and according to the current law 10% belongs to the county, 20% of the profit tax belongs to local self-government units. So, out of those 30% profit taxes that are distributed to local self-government units, of those 30%, 70% of the profit tax remains in the City of Zagreb. Therefore, on the basis of the principle of equal distribution of tax revenues to local self-government units where it is paid and according to the constitutional category according to which the units of local self-government are concerned, since income tax is paid to local self-government units, the Government has proposed that the full share of income tax belongs to local self-government units and the total part of the income tax belongs to the state budget. Another thing if we look at this problem staticly, if we see it as practically confused is the situation in this way, if we don't take into account salary growth estimates, employment growth estimates, etc., then we get the wrong picture. But let's go to the concrete things proposed under this law. So, by amending this law, it is proposed to increase the share of income tax for municipalities and cities from 34% to 52%, to increase the share of income tax for counties from 10% to 15%, to increase the share of income tax for the City of Zagreb which has a special status, has status and the city and county from 47%, and when you add up to 67%, let's take any county, let's take Varazdinska. Varazdin and Varazdin County participate 67% of income tax. The City of Zagreb has so much income tax. So, the exact same contribution to income tax. So, that's the proposal for changing this income tax rate. However, it is also proposed that, in the participation of income tax, which has units of local self-government which by 30 cities and 21 counties that have decentralised basic school functions, the share of income tax is increased from 2.9% to 3.1% from that basis, that the share of income tax is increased from 2.2% to 2.2% for secondary schools, since they have decentralised social care functions and welfare centres and homes for older and powerless ones from 2% to 2.2%. Also in previous years, and practically every debate on the state budget highlights the problem of decentralised functions of the county hospital. This is one obvious problem that is not sufficiently financial, quality decentralised and resolved over the past period, so it is proposed that for counties that have county hospitals as a decentralised function, the share of income tax is increased from 2.5% to 3.2% or 0.7% or slightly less than 30%, and in that way in the future the county could finance the costs of its county hospitals or if you look nominally towards revenues in 2005 it is about 70 million kuna or if we are doing revenue projections by the end of 2006 it is over 80 million kuna. So, who directly without this increase in income tax rates based on all units of local self-government are directed towards counties that have a decentralised function regarding homes of health. Also another very important topic we usually like to discuss in the summer months when unfortunately fires occur and this is the problem of financing fire and public fire stations. It is obvious that local self-government units have problems with funding, and therefore we suggest that for local self-government units that have established public fire departments by law and finance these public fire departments, the share of income tax on this basis is increased from 1 to 1.3% of income tax, or is thus practically increased by 20 million direct funds to units of local self-government that have decentralised thus a fire department. Or if you look at these five decentralised functions with this 1.6% increase in income tax by these units local self-government is directed over 160 million kuna for these additional decentralised functions. I'm saying, I'm not talking about this increase of 15 actually from 18 plus 5%, which has an increased share of income tax with the basis of a change in the distribution of income tax and income tax and a normal thing that when we talk about this distribution, given that it has a more even development function of the Republic of Croatia, that it has a more proper distribution of tax revenues, we must not forget the areas of special state care and must not forget the islands. The areas of special state concern were given a share of income tax by law, in practice the state gave up its share of income tax in favour of those units, it remains. In addition, it amounts to about 580 million kuna annually. Since 2004, the Law on Budget Implementation has defined that the return of income tax incurred by citizens in the area of special state care is carried out from the state budget and therefore returned 431 million to citizens in the area of special state care and did not return from the jury accounts of those units of local self-government. I have to remind myself of the year 2003 when most of those units in the summer months were blocked because income tax returns went from their account. So, just with the basis of these two legal provisions, the deduction of the total income tax that was before and the return of the income tax on the unit from the area of special state care will get over a billion kuna, and get it. Also, when it comes to the islands, the effect of the increase for the islands is practically another 13.4% in income tax, and it is for the islands an additional 40 million kuna of additional funds directly where the state has given up in favour of the island. Also, since today it is very interesting to talk about the government taking the city of Zagreb and politically exploiting it as such. The opinion was undivided until an analysis was carried out to make a different distribution and, in a certain way, further decentralisation should go in this direction. And all the political parties may have gone in one way or another with slightly different proposals going in that direction. However, today when the final proposal comes, then everyone is talking about the problem of the city of Zagreb. There are several other units of local self-government that have had companies that do excellent business in recent years, and above all we think of Rovinj city and address group that has a large profit and for such a small local environment, it will certainly be a shock to the budget. There are some other local units that have had a healthy economy and which have therefore had an increase in profit tax revenue, such as 24 out of 525. But I repeat, out of the total profit tax, how many units of local self-government of billions and 800 million in 2005 the revenue of the City of Zagreb budget was one billion and 184 million and all other units of local self-government had revenue of 595 million kuna. So, ladies and gentlemen, you have before you a proposal to amend the Law on the financing of units of local, regional and regional self-government that we believe we have achieved the principle of justice, which is that more equally, tax revenues are being distributed in Croatia, that with these 800 million kunas, 97% of local self-government units will receive more funds and thus allow more equal development of the Republic of Croatia. And secondly, I think that with this one real-life financial situation about funding decentralised functions we create a prerequisite for further discussion of decentralisation of Croatia. Because obviously we won't anymore, because this is decentralisation practically without letting go. We can't talk about decentralisation where rights are coming down on the one hand and obligations aren't coming down on the other. So, on such a fair and fair distribution of tax revenues, the next step is in the Republic of Croatia when more uniform development is achieved is to further decentralise certain functions, whether it is basic education, whether it is health care, whether these are other functions. And the second thing, with this decentralisation cities the largest, so Rijeka, Osijek, Split will get over 40 million kuna more into its budget. Cities from 15, 20 to 70,000 inhabitants will receive between 5 and 20 million kuna more in their budget. Finally, they have obtained the prerequisites that those decentralised functions as regards taking over part of the state administration take over and take over the quality of the operation of certain services in relation to citizenship, in particular the issue of building permits and certain similar operations. Here, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75716	Thank you. The Committee on Legislative, Finance and State Budget, Local and Regional Regional Self-Government? He has no intention of orally interpreting the report. I'm opening a debate. For the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, respected representative Anto Bagaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75717	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to say in advance that the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support this proposal to amend the law on the financing of units of local, regional/regional/ self-government. The Law on the financing of units of local and regional /regional/ self-government defines the resources of units of local and regional /regional/ self-government by types of income and types of common taxes and their distribution between the state, county, municipalities and cities. The reasons for proposing amendments to the law solve problems and they are primarily due to the negative impact of the concentration of income tax and horizontal balances. A new distribution of common taxes is being carried out so that the profit tax has become an exclusive state income, and income tax has become the exclusive income of municipalities, cities and counties with the fact that it remains in the State budget only as a position of additional compensation for decentralised functions of 21% of income tax. This actually carries out transformation, compensation and further decentralisation of the state's income. We believe that this bill aims to propose a more balanced, harmonised distribution of taxes in all areas, which will allow for a balanced development of the entire Republic of Croatia. The proposed transformation through the amendment of Article 45. The law on the financing of units of local and regional /regional/ self-government is based on the following assumptions: Article 45 of the Law on the financing of units of local and regional /regional/ self-government is amended. By way of derogation from Article 1(1) of the Code, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with Article 1(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with Article 1(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and with Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Instead, municipalities, cities and counties are compensated for their share in profit tax, through further decentralisation or distribution of income tax through application of the simulation of effects, distribution keys and resources achieved to eliminate the effects of the centralisation of profit tax. The position of municipalities and cities in the area of special state care is improved, mountain-mounted areas because the state gives them the total income from profit tax in their area through State budget. The position of municipalities and cities on islands is improving as they are given an additional 21% share for joint financing of the capital project of interest for the development of the island. Income analysis shows that by reducing the country's share of income tax revenues by 23 percentage points to 18% of cities, 5% of the county would be compensated globally for their lost income from profit tax. It is also proposed to increase additional shares for decentralised functions by 1.6 percentage points, i.e. From 10.4 as far as we've had at 12%. Changes are shared in the distribution of income taxes between the state, county, cities and municipalities and the city of Zagreb so that the distribution of taxes on the municipality's income and cities will have 52% instead of the previous 34. County instead of the current 10, 15%. The position of balancing for decentralised functions remains 21%. So if we add this up 100% loses its 24.6% or better, it distributes to all units of local self-government while the additional share in income tax for decentralised functions looks like what the minister reads. I'll just add it or repeat it one more time. Primary schooling from 2.9% increased to 3.1%, secondary schooling from 2% to 2.2%. Social care from 2% to 2.2% even though we have to say and single out welfare centres from 0.4 to 0.5% and homes for older and powerless people from 1.6 to 1.7%. Health from 2.5% to 3.2%, fire or public fire departments from 1% to 1.3%. Total means so far decentralised functions from 10.4 to 12% and plus 1.6%. When we look at the individual City of Zagreb with 47% share in income tax, it rises to 67% or 20% higher. Therefore, according to the draft law, the State budget would no longer have income tax in the future. However, further as a position in the state budget, there would remain additional allocations for decentralised functions of 21% of income tax, but these funds will serve to offset minimum standards for decentralised functions to those municipalities and cities and counties that from additional shares in taxes that are increasing from 10.4% to 12% will not be able to meet the minimum standards set by the government for 2007. As regards the return of income tax, income tax bonds in the area of special state care and mountain and mountain areas, the proposal for a law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2007 is proposed to continue to apply the way so far. that the State, instead of the units, returns more taxes paid after the annual application to income tax bonds in the area of special state care or mountaineering. In order to preserve the position of special state care units in the field of special state care, they also receive aid from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, which compensates the income from the profit tax realised in their area, and not only the state-owned but also the one that has so far belonged to the county, through the proposal for a law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2007. As far as financial effects are concerned, it is important to stress that despite the inclusion of part of the tax on the profit of municipalities and cities and counties, it was 30% at an estimated amount of 206 million kuna. In the State budget following the adoption of all the legal assumptions set out in this law, the provision of the right of the area of special state concern and mountainous area and island for the implementation of this law should be provided for additional resources in the State budget for 2007, which was also the objective of this amendment and will be quantified by the Government in the amount necessary to cover this legislative solution. The proposed amendments to the laws give local budgets of municipalities, cities and counties between 730 and 800 million kunas more than under the applicable law. Article 2 of this proposal proposes to amend Article 45 in a way that deletes the years of application of decentralisation and allows units that have taken over decentralisation to provide a proportionate decision on minimum standards. It is further prescribed that the unit may redistribute the funds of decentralisation by institutions within groups of individual activities but according to the previously adopted plan. In this way, the article is coordinated with practice because the funds have been used for 5 years and units have the best knowledge of priorities and activities in institutions. And we finally know that this is not enough given the domain of work that the units of local administration and self-government have received, starting from municipalities, cities to our counties, but it is very important to step into further decentralisation of funds, means a fissure so that these units of local administrations and self-government can finance the commitments they have received as well as possible. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community will support this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the financing of units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75718	Thank you. For the SDP Club, respected representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75719	Dear President, dear ministers, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. This law is another delusion since it leads to further centralisation of the fiscal potentials of the Republic of Croatia and it is not true that units of local self-government will receive more money. They will get less money and they will get less and less money compared to this solution that we currently have in the existing law. The law is counter-constitutional because some units of local self-government are taking their original incomes, leaving powers, which means that they will not be able to comply with what they are entrusted with under constitutional provisions, i.e. they will not be given adequate funds for it. Furthermore, there is a question of even co-existence with other laws, since the Budget Law has already been addressed to date by the representative bodies of the units of local self-government, i.e. by 15th, to the representative bodies of the budgets. We will not even be able to follow this law nor when it is passed because it enters into force on January 1st. So the question arises how a budget will be made under some law that has yet to come into force in a few days. Here's a few explanations and calculations. First of all, it would have been good, it was desirable, it was fair to all of us here in the hall, but also to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia to make that calculation by each unit of local self-government, but not in 2005 because now budgets are being made. Therefore, each unit of local self-government should have obtained a calculation of what will happen in 2007 and in projections in 2008 and 2009. They didn't get that. They received instructions from the finance minister in the seventh month how to make the budgets. These guidelines say the profit tax, the income of the unit's budget of local and regional self-government and that it needs to be increased by 3.5%. It is also in these guidelines that have not been withdrawn that the Minister of Finance's notice not to follow these guidelines says the income tax is also increasing by some 3.5% or some percentage. Therefore, local self-government units must act accordingly, and today we are talking here a month before the end of the year about something different from January 1st. You know something about calculations? You should read this law, but you should also read the draft state budget for next year and when you read the execution for 2005, then it's really true what the minister said that no, that local self-government will get 700, 800 million more kuna, but would get 81. In 2005, she'd get 81 million kuna. If this law were in force this year, the local self-government would have received 160 million kuna less because the income tax was significantly increased compared to income tax. Simulate this, this bill to the 2006 budget we had here in this House. In 2007, the situation is the following gentlemen according to what the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes, which is that income tax will not grow, but even more so it will fall, and profit tax will grow at a rate of 16% and the lack of units of local self-government will be over 600 million. So next year, local self-government will not get more money under this law, but will get 600 million kunas less money under this law. What this law and budget are hiding is that clearly, in the pre-election year, the government intends to raise an untaxable share of the salary. And it's legitimate that the government does, but raising an untaxable part of the salary means that the incomes of the local self-government will be reduced because it all says in the state budget not in this law. This law says what happened in 2005. But we don't make retroactive laws. We are passing a law that will enter into force on 1 January 2007 and is valid for another period. The situation in 2008 will be such that smaller units of local self-government will receive 655 million, and according to the state budget projections. So I took the projections of the state budget that we have on the benches, and in 2008. 724 million. If we simulate this law on the data that we have in the state budget substantiated, and I agree with the minister that we can talk about the unfair distribution of the income tax so far has been and still has. But in this way we are making an additional injustice because we are taking a total income tax to local self-government units, so this law makes the distribution to local self-government units absolutely unfair. It is now unfair in this way or in such a way, gentlemen, but under this law it becomes absolutely unfair and cannot be compensated by internal redistribution of income tax in 2007 because in 2007 where units of local self-government that remains the old law should have been incomed by two billion 300 million, so it remains an old law. In 2007, two billion and five hundred, and in 2008, two billion and seven hundred. At the same time, this part of income tax will be incomed by a billion and seven hundred in 2007, a billion and eight hundred in 2008 and a billion and nine hundred in 2009, and there you come to the fact that local self-government will have less money than it has now. If a different redistribution of profit tax was to be made then it should have been done in local self-government units. Because this isn't about redistribution. It's about replacements. It's a substitute that doesn't grow with a tax that grows at a rate of 15 to 20% a year. It grows, a fellow Jarnjak grows, over 15% of your annual income tax increases. Something because we've changed the legal rules so there's no accelerated depreciation, and something that makes the economy really more successful. That's right. And, that's right, no, no, so you have to admit, it's okay, look out, that's it. Well, that's what the data says, isn't it? But it's growing that tax. But of course you don't agree that income tax doesn't grow. It grows at a rate of less than the inflation rate. And... Can you provide me with the terms of the debate? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you. So this is where we change taxes for taxes. And this compensation of income tax for profit is going to damage all units of local self-government as a whole. Some will win, some will lose. But we're talking about the number. Look out, so the minister says 24 cities will lose. And he says some of them will get there. But we can't compare numbers. I'm comparing how many citizens live in these units of local self-government. So you can't compare Zagreb as the largest unit of local self-government with the Targets who as the smallest unit of local self-government. And if the Targets win, and Zagreb loses, then it can't be a fair law. You can't be a fair law by that, then. Furthermore, it is said here that all income tax is given to local self-government units, which is incorrect. 21% still remain in the state budget. And there's a redistribution going back, because that's where the Alignment Fund is formed that doesn't return to every unit of local self-government in a way that gives us as much tax in that local self-government unit. So that's incorrect, too. And that's not true, gentlemen. If you wanted to be very authentic, you should have decentralisationd all of them 100%. And then from some other means to create a fund for alignment. You know, this is where local self-government in 2007 will have less money in total, that those who have invested in their development in the past, who have invested in making trades, small and medium-sized enterprises, will be punished by their headquarters. Because the profits from them will go to the state budget, and the income tax will not be able to compensate for it because in the end they want to recognise it or not the highest wages are paid in Zagreb, or large cities. And with this law, we punish those who in the past invested in their development. Therefore, we propose as a club of MPs an amendment, and this amendment goes towards making sure that there is indeed an increase in the total funds for local self-government. Which means we suggest that the total income tax belongs to local self-government units, 85% to municipalities and cities, 15% to decentralised functions, and then around 12% to County, because they're founders of part of these institutions, so from 12 we raise to 15 and that's how we raise 2 percentage points to decentralised secondary school functions, and 1% to health, and 1% to secondary school. And we suggest that 20% of the profit tax be the county's income. So to make it a fairer distribution and to be the county's income. In which we propose that 15% of the profit tax be in the Alignment Fund, as the amount will rise for decentralised functions will be reduced by the need for the Fund for Alignment and somewhere around billions of kuna will be needed for the Alignment Fund. At that time, it would be true that local self - administration would receive a little more money. In that case, about a billion kunas would be made annually more money for local self-government. Unfortunately, under this bill, it won't be like that. It's said here that you're giving something back to local self-government units of special state concern. This law is neutral to them. So they're left with what they've had so far. They're left with what they've had so far. And we advocate that indeed all income tax remains with the units of local self-government, that it stays where it comes from, because it's the only one that can be identified as such. But not at the expense of the amount, the total amount that local self-government gets. And let's stop gentlemen talking in percentages. The percentage doesn't mean anything. It is necessary to calculate kunas and see how this applies to each of the cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, the simulation was done from 2005, to the 2005 budget, and the effects, for example, for changes to the Profit Tax Act on the inability to speed up depreciation have an effect on the 2006 budget and the following years. What about those cases where companies had something called transfer tax loss? So local self-government gave up part of that common tax at the time. There's a whole series of open questions. I think that if such a law is adopted it will indeed be a step back to centralising the tax revenues of the Republic of Croatia, and we will see for ourselves very soon next year. Secondly, it seems unfair to the units of local self-government because of some, and it's enough to make at least one income without the state making up for it, and that's something that certainly doesn't lead to what we're up for here. One more sentence. Unfortunately, this bill has not been passed either through the government's decentralisation Commission, nor has the law been consulted by the Union of Cities and Associations and municipalities, which we as a Parliament and Government have committed to under the Charter, the European Charter of Local Self-Government. The question arises what will the Government Commission for decentralisation do in the first place if it does not discuss such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75720	Thank you. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75721	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'm going to correct that first quote that Mršić cited, which he himself later did through the debate and denied, he said this proposal was a deception. This proposal is not a hoax, this proposal is actually a fair proposal, which here certainly welcomes more than 95% of local self-government units. More than 95% of local self-government will benefit from this proposal and it is quite certain that this is a proposal aimed at the even development of Croatia and I would say that this is finally a proposal that will give greater development to local self-government units. And you may have unwittingly taken a good suggestion when you compared the citizens and Zagreb. The question arises why the citizens did not have the same development potential as Zagreb, the question is raised.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75722	Second correction, Honored Representative Anto Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75723	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Mršić said a lot in a number of incorrect allegations that I cannot fix in one correcting quote, but here is one that is obvious, which definitely stands, that surely units of local administrations and self-government and county will get more. 700 million kuna for municipalities and cities and 100 million kuna for counties plus 146 million kuna for fire, health care and everything else that goes from these decentralised funds. He probably didn't do well or simulations, so he had to notice that his town of Corpivnica to which he was mayor, according to this model he would get almost 11 million kuna more than he did before.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75724	Third Amendment, the Honorable Representative of the Crown of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75725	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary with an associate. It is incorrect that this law was filed in accordance with Article 84. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. It is also incorrect that he is being deceived, because the islands are getting more, the chairman of the Committee on Local Self-Government that... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75726	Don't edit, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75727	It interferes with my work. Islands get more than 40 million and now they don't contribute to the settlement fund, the county gets more. This bill was adopted in time, it is modern, even, giving more opportunities to units of local and regional self-government and making it easier for the capital to develop more evenly because the other parts of Croatia, based on this law, which is one step higher in the direction of decentralisation, contributes to all kinds of and economic development and should therefore be supported and brought forward as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75728	Thank you. Fourth Amendment, Honored Representative Vladimir Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75729	Mr. President, here are a few allegations I want to correct. Mr. Mršić's first claim that this law leads to new centralization is simply not true, the cca 800 million kuna is redistributed, and in favour of the units of local self-government, of course, at the expense of the City of Zagreb. The next claim that is not true is that income tax will not grow but fall. It is simply an incorrect claim, and it is good that Mr. Mršić claimed that the profit is growing quickly or faster as there is his recognition, because it is inevitable that the profit is growing because of the economy. And last thing I want to fix, he says the law is neutral for units in the field of special state concern. This is not true because units in the field of special state care if nothing else gets the 10% share of the profits tax that the counties have earned so far. If you have read the proposal well... That's not true. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] If you have read the bill well, local self-government units in the field of special state care receive an additional 10% that so far had counties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75730	Correction, don't be a colleague of Linic's. It's the corrections. Dear Representative Kruno Markovinović. Peace, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75731	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's a very lively speech, my colleague said a series of incorrect allegations. I can do it again. This law certainly isn't a delusion definitely, because it actually came out to all those who have been asking for it for a very long time. The alliance of cities and municipalities is mentioned. I was while you were in power for four years the president of the Council of Croatian municipalities with the same requirement to bring it in, you ignored the entire alliance of cities and municipalities, interestingly now praise him. It's still not true that everyone loses. Some of them will. Let's take a look at Sisak City. The smell from the refinery is swallowed by citizens and the profit tax from the refinery goes to the City of Zagreb. ... We in our own city have the noise of large stoners working there, the clerics, and the profit tax goes regularly to Samobor and for 13 years already. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So I think a lot of people will get it, and it's good that they get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75732	Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. Here you go. ... Yeah, that's right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yeah. Željko Nenadić, correction of the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75733	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, I couldn't stand not to correct a number of incorrect allegations, I would say even free to myself, and I will condemn the deception stated by our dear colleague Mršić, to punish those who have invested in their development. Here, a dear colleague abused the pay phone and spoke as mayor of the town of Koprivnica and not as a parliamentary representative for not serving him with honor, and...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75734	The correction is supposed to concentrate!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75735	We are not punishing anyone, and I will only ask the question in which those who defended Croatia in the Homeland War were punished and for four years did not have the opportunity to develop and were then totally devastated and without jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75736	Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. My colleagues, please! Dear Mršić, please refrain...... Peace, please! [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Dear Mršić, please refrain. You are the permanent tossert, commentary. Don't do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75737	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let me have a little intervention here, because a series of difficult words have fallen, but I'd just like to remind Mr. Representative of his interview three or four weeks ago and he'll see that he's in total discretion and opposite of what he's saying today. To talk about if someone had not made an analysis and had proposed a law at the very least do not be angry with a respected representative, it is unserious because it would be irresponsible versus 500 units of local self-government and irresponsibility against the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I am glad that in the parliamentary debate on the budget, we will no longer argue about economic growth in the Republic of Croatia, because the SDP club definitely said that the consequences of the good economic activity resulting from the fulling of profits and finally after three years, I am glad that I received confirmation from the SDP Club and will probably no longer have to discuss it when the budget is adopted. The other thing [[Mr. Minister, don't be insecure...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75738	Comrade Linic, please. ... Order! [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Comrade Linic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75739	Mr. Linic...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75740	Minister, peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75741	Mr. Linic, if you'll tell me...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75742	Minister, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75743	Then tell me what I can say.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75744	Here, let me finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75745	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75746	Comrade Linic, please don't make me warn you about the intruders. Be kind, do not make me use those regulations of the Rules of Procedure needlessly and excessively. Here you go, Minister, keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75747	Look, in the absence of arguments, these convictions are likely to fall. To say that income tax in the Republic of Croatia, income tax income is growing below the inflation rate is ultimately unserious and irresponsible. Because by all indications income from income tax, look at income from local self-government units, to the state budget, rises over 11%. Second thing, I remember here and the criticism of changing the Tax on Profit. When we changed the two key things. One is to delete the provision of a one-time letter as an opportunity to iron tax balances in such a way. Same criticism, even harder words than it is today. You can see the effect of that today. I'm glad we did what we wanted. That we've put in order that those who pay taxes should pay for it. Here we heard today that the result of the increased income of the profit tax is the result of economic activity, you heard what the MP threw at me. But probably people pay taxes if it's not the result of economic activity. But I wouldn't want to talk about it anymore. In this House, when laws were passed regarding the financing of units of local self-government on 15.12. and the state budget had already been adopted, the laws also passed. This law is passed on time. Units of local self-government, with most of them getting increased funding, until the adoption of their representative body without problem can increase the position of income tax revenue and the total position and nothing will happen on that side. Say that units of local self-government will achieve a deficit is simply incorrect. If that's true, then why are you saying that the City of Zagreb is going to lose so much? Where's the money going to flow? Where's the money going to flow? They will be translated into other local self-government units. Also in the lack of arguments, the government will next year increase the non-taxable share of income tax is ultimately ridiculous because it is only proof of lack of arguments because the government is not at the end of the mind to change over the year and such regulation does not change over the year. It is usually changed in the 9th, 10th month so that all those applying that law can prepare themselves for the application of that law. But I'm saying, it's very interesting to look at statements from 15 days ago or 20 days ago, so you'll see that they are in line with this bill. So to say that income from the 21% Alignment Fund doesn't go back to local self-government units, to what extent it's paid, it wouldn't be the Alignment Fund. No, the Fund is designed to help local self-government units with decentralised functions that have weaker fiscal power. And funds from the decentralisation Fund are being rerouted to units of local self-government based on standards that the Ministry of Resort, Health or Education adopts, minimum standards and that must ensure all units of local self-government for decentralised functions. Those who don't have enough money get funds from decentralised functions. And let's say, for next year, revenues for the Decentralised Functions Fund are estimated at a billion and 400 million at the same time, while the funds for the Alignment Aid are projected by a billion and 430 million. So for some 26 million more than there will be income from income tax, that 26 million was taken from some other income. What the SDP Club suggested was an additional billion and a half practically taken from the state budget without making commitments. No commitment. But, gentlemen, you forgot one thing. The state budget in Croatia is no longer parafiscal financing. Everything that's funded is in the budget. Perhaps according to some models of parafiscal financing, this would work, but in the regulated state finances that have the Treasury, it can't go. And I repeat, it's not true that units of local self-government will receive less funds. He'll get more money. I am glad that you have confirmed that the economic growth and progress of Croatia is such that the income tax is such because profit tax cannot pay companies that do not work well and that do not create a new value. And I say, it'll probably be easier for us all to discuss the 2007 Budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75748	Thank you. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. The first is the respected representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75749	So I'm correcting Minister Shuker who says that growth is to get a correlation with the growth rate and growth of the economy. In 2003, the growth rate was 5.3%. In all three years under the HDZ mandate, we had a growth of about 4%, 4.5%. So, less, less, economic growth is smaller. Insufficient for Croatia's needs, profits are higher. So the statistics show that the minister has to watch what he says and speak incorrectly.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75750	Second Amendment, Honored Representative...... Peace of the Ministers. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The second correction, the respected representative, Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75751	So I want to correct two incorrect allegations from the minister. So I was saying that profit is growing, and profit is growing for two reasons, and I said that because of changes in the law because you prevented accelerated depreciation. Thus, these administrative gains are also growing because of the more successful business. Companies can do better business not because they grow but because, for example, they fire workers and have less labour costs, so they gain more, colleague Schuker. There's little to look at about what the company's balance sheet is. And secondly, as far as the projections are concerned, I've read the draft budget. According to the draft budget that remains, the old law of the local self-government unit should reach 2 billion 318 million profit taxes next year, and you will decentralise a billion 715 million income tax. Therefore, the deficit is 603 million kuna. Show your simulation papers, I can show you the files of my simulations, so let's compare the simulations. But not in 2005, but in 2007.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75752	Thank you. Third Amendment, Honored Representative Miroslav Korenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75753	Thank you very much. So I can trust Mr. Minister on the word that the simulations were made, however, why do we keep them so secret from the MPs? I received from the Martian municipality in Varazdin County also a simulation based on the proposal of this Law where around 300 to 400 thousand kunas of the municipalities of income will have less. If that's good, and your colleague said in one of the corrections that some will get. Well, I'm afraid some of them are far from your people. In addition, when it comes to profit tax, you forget that in 2005, the census was raised in a way that artisans with more than 2 million kunas have to pay a profit tax. Whether it's a confession or not, that's how it is. And secondly, this year, Mr. Minister, we passed several laws where we imposed obligations on local and regional self-government, and we didn't secure the money. For example, just remember the Law on elemental disasters.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75754	For the HNS club, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75755	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. It is before us to discuss and deliver because it is an emergency procedure that is another law that is most directly involved in the interests of local and regional self-government, which the government has not conducted with associations of municipalities, cities and counties, although Croatia has taken over this part of the international obligations and although we have often warned that it is simply embarrassing for us to vote for the Laws on Local Self-Government if the Government has not conducted this debate with them. I, for example, today do not know the views of Croatian cities, municipalities and counties, what their views, calculations and simulations of the application of such a bill to their concrete budgets are. After the introduction of the Minister of Finance's argument that for the first time we were putting money down to local self-government without any new obligations, I came here to propose an interpretation of the government's work and to urgently introduce new obligations to municipalities and cities that they could spend this great money because we had kept our commitments without money for three years. Now, according to the Law, we're also giving money for those obligations we've already given them. But I have two papers that hint and new obligations to the local self-government in which there is nothing in this argument of the law, and I'll talk about it later. I must say that I am surprised by this Bill's proposal when I read it and got it and simply because the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 2 February this year corresponded to our proposal for a law that in one part almost identical to the Government's proposal gave a negative opinion for two basic reasons. The first reason was that, by respecting our proposal, the state budget would lose 408 million kuna, and the second reason was that I quote: "The government of the Republic of Croatia values that this legislative proposal would undermine the tax-sharing relations between the state, local and regional, or regional self-government established in the guidelines of the economic and fiscal policy of the Government of Croatia for the period 2006-2008 and in the projections of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2006-2008. So I don't know if the government has changed its guidelines, but I know that the Parliament hasn't changed budget projections, so I don't know what happened now that in February the change in the Law on Local Financing would cause a disturbance in the relationship, and now that the Government's proposal won't cause a disturbance, or the government's opinion has now changed, and they've come about part of those arguments that we've offered at the time, and in particular by warning that the way the income tax is distributed is unfair because it rests at the seat, and not at the place of creation. But what were the suggestions, or what was common, and what was not between the government and our proposal? Both the government and we have proposed 21% for decentralised, i.e. to help balance decentralised functions, and the government and we have proposed that the state has 0% in income tax, municipalities and cities the government proposes 52%, we have a proposal between 50 and 68%, the government proposes that their share in income tax be 15, our proposal was 18.6%, the decentralised functions of the Government proposed 12, we proposed 10.4%. At the City of Zagreb, the government proposes that the share of income tax be 67, 12 for decentralised functions and 21 for the Fund of Alignment. So in that part, we're only different in that part of the county and the cities' income, and that's good. So, both our simulations and the calculations that we were doing back then, which were disputed in this House, the government has now accepted and reached about the same relationships and needs. But where does the problem begin? It begins with the problem of profits, especially in the part that the Government left out in its proposal our third proposal, which is a real estate tax. In addition to the proposal for income tax as income from local and regional self-government, we also proposed that the entire real estate tax be the income of local and regional self-government because the account just showed that it should also be put into service in order for this different system to be positive for local self-government, and this based on the data for this year would be around 400 million kunas of higher income to local and regional self-government than on the basis of existing legal provisions. The government explained its proposal for the law, i.e. in writing the basis of the 2005 data and facts, and all that stands is true and that same data was used by us when giving our proposals. However, since it is now a November month and a well-known budget implementation by 6 and probably 9 months this year, but we also have a draft budget for 2007. I was interested in why the government only used 2005 as an argument, and it was not the reason and defence of its proposal that worked on the basis of the realisation in 2006, and especially not based on the proposal for its budget for the following year. So using government data, I remind you that for 2005, the total income tax, if 899 million cut were denied, was about 8 billion and 400 million, that the state received a billion 400, the balance fund of a billion 600, the county 889 million, municipalities and cities of two and a half billion and the City of Zagreb a billion 800, rounding up the amounts. In the total tax on income that went... The city of Zagreb participated with about 42.5%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At the level of the entire state. It's information from the government's explanation. That same year in 2005, the profit was 5 billion 700 out of which the state took 3 billion 900, the county received 172 million, municipalities and cities 423 million and the City of Zagreb billion 184. Now if we know that's how it was for 2005 then it turns out next. The income the state has denied is a billion 400, and the profit it takes is a billion 700. And that's minus 355. However, it is 2005. Therefore, it is not good to take 2005 as a basis for calculating. And it can't be done because what happens to profit tax? About 5 billion 600 were harvested in 2005. In 2006, according to a budget still worth 6 billion 400, and according to next year's budget, the total tax collected would be around 7 billion 700. That's 20% of last year's growth. And it's good for that tax to grow. But there's a much bigger share of the country's cake on what happens to income. And what happens to income tax? In 2005, about 6 billion 800. In 2006, according to our current budget, 8 billion 700, and in 2007, look at the draft budget and our income tax item. A billion 400. That's the 20... That's right, Minister. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's because of the bill. That's the 21% for the Alignment Fund. If a billion is 421%, what is 100%? 6 billion 600. How come next year the total income tax will be 6 billion 600 and 8 billion 700 is planned for this year. Look at the implementation of the budget for the first six months. I think it's 48%. So, it's going to be over 8 billion for sure. What will affect the fact that the government, forgive not that it will but rather plan to achieve income tax in the next year less than it was in last year and this year. To break this dilemma and fear, there's only one thing I want to hear publicly. How much is the total income tax planned next year? And that bill will be very simple for everyone. So, what's gonna happen? The minister rejected any thought of increasing the untaxable share of the salary. Then maybe the income tax rates will change. Something else might happen, but I don't want to guess because the only basis I could count on is the draft budget. That's the draft budget. Is it possible to accept this model without bringing it to a global level to maybe be positive, but Mršić's account is correct, so I'm not going to tell it because it's true. And lest there be any losers by the number of people, and by the number of taxpayers, more than those who gain. Real estate tax must also be the total amount of local self-government income. The income tax has to be a 100% increase in local self-government and the equalisation fund if necessary for next year a billion 400, if it takes a billion 400, these billions 400 can be taxed on profits that go to the state and with only 18% of the tax collected on government profits can be covered by the Balance Fund. And the increase in profit tax is 20.3 planned compared to this year. So it would still be an effect plus for the state if only 18% of it were given to the Decentralised Functions Alignment Fund. textbooks free of charge for all children, transport to school free of charge and dormitories free of charge. On November 07th of this year, the government gave its opinion on two of our proposals for legislation on transportation and textbooks. The following quote: "Introducing compulsory secondary education will need to equalise the system of primary and secondary education, which means that issues such as the transport of pupils, the accommodation of students to dormitories and the financing of textbooks from the state budget funds through decentralised funds forwarded to their founders will have to be resolved in the same way by introducing the above-mentioned changes." The increase is 12% of decentralised funds and funds for primary and secondary schools. The work is done precisely because clearly from these funds of the county and those 30 cities will pay textbooks and transportation of children to school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75756	Thank you. Two corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75757	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Lesar, said the government had accepted the HNS proposal. You're the one who messed up the order of things. Last month, the government sent a proposal, and I will remind you, and it announced the proposal after the Varazdin spa clause. And you sent your proposal in 2 months 2006. It's another thing. He's not identical, it's also the third thing that you really wanted you had the chance. So where were you a few years ago? What were you doing in the SDP government? You were in Međimurje because your party was in power. My colleague, it does not begin the political history of your arrival in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75758	The other one. Dear Representative Željko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75759	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'd like to correct the incorrect quote that's been repeated here many times, and he says we suggested it. You want to know who we are? We know who they are and it is quite clear to all of us and to those who have to warn the public that this proposal does not harmonize with this government proposal and we from the area from which I come and we do not expect you to understand us in Chakovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75760	For the club IDS esteemed representatives Valter Drandić and Damir Cain. The first one will be Walter Drandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75761	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Hospitals, health homes, schools, kindergartens, Jaws, social care, transport, public transport, waste, purity, drinking water, waste water, culture, sport, public lighting, gas, parks, firefighters, theatres, markets, parking, libraries, galleries, spatial planning, environmental protection etc. Until economic growth and development. These are all areas that local and regional self-government must worry about and in the perception of people all problems still need to be solved by the mayor or mayor. And it's good that local and regional self-government has as broad powers as possible, but as they would say to me in Istria, "the missing school" -- "the lack of money." In addition, with those regular or legal obligations and chronic insufficient funds, the participation of cities, municipalities, counties in projects implemented by the state in their territory is constantly sought. So, if you want a college building in Pula you have to participate 50% in its financing, if you want a hospital you have to participate in financing the construction of a hospital etc. We're not saying it's bad either, but the problem is that it's really money for everything that's come down on the back of local regional self-government, for everything our citizens expect very, very little. It's been going on in the country lately that the government has been having meetings around the county, which is good, that ministers are going around the county, cities and municipalities, but it's only talking about what you brought us, whether they brought us any gifts, and that's normal that it's not a normal situation. It is normal to establish a system of real financing in which cities, municipalities, have sufficient resources for what their obligations are and what Croatian citizens today expect to solve. In this regard, we in the IDS believe that Croatia needs one strong decentralisation, strengthening the financial strength of cities, municipalities and counties because it is exactly what citizens expect that is normal. People first turn to the mayor to solve problems, because they are close and live with them every day. And citizens' expectations today are growing in Croatia because society is still developing, the criteria are growing and the resources are nowhere near enough to create basic conditions for the normal functioning of our local and regional communities. Therefore, for IDS each and a small step towards strengthening the financial strength of local and regional self-government is positive. We have seen that there are many doubts about this step, and it would be good for us as advocates to get these analyses and see both the exact data and what it is before we decide to pass this law. So I have to say that even though this isn't about decentralisation that it wouldn't be a mistake, it's just about redistributing the IDS tax is that if the Istrian County in all of the cities and municipalities gets one more kuna, we're going to support this bill. It is said that it is a fairer distribution of tax resources that almost all cities, municipalities and counties are getting something from the existing situation, and we believe that it is a fairer distribution of funds so that income from income tax is the income of local and regional self-government, but we need to see if this model is real and the best. But here you should say that not all cities, municipalities and counties will be winners. Unfortunately, there are losers. So the bigger losers, as we have heard before, are Zagreb, Istria County as a county, the town of Rovinj as an eclectic example. Rovinj, for example, loses over 20% of its budget funds, 30 million kuna. Istrian County somewhere around 7.5 million kuna. And we from the IDS believe it is necessary to find solutions to make up for the loss of cities, municipalities, counties in this redistribution. Neither Rovinj nor the Istrian County can survive without major problems such a drastic, so sudden drop in their incomes. The IDS also believes that it is good that this law retains existing solutions for the financing of local self-government units in areas of special state concern and in mountainous and mountainous areas which return to full profit tax. We are aware that these are areas that will long need help and we oppose any initiative to cut or God forbid. We in IDS, as is known, advocate the greatest independence of local and regional self-government. The IDS advocates greater financial strength of municipalities, cities and counties because it is the only way to create conditions for development and growth, for the quality of life of our citizens. decentralisation does not just mean transferring powers to lower levels of government, decentralisation does not mean just redistributing taxes. decentralisation also means giving authority to cities, municipalities and counties when we talk about this financial section for the possibility of affecting tax policy in their area. This means that cities, municipalities and counties must participate and share, for example, state taxes and VAT, especially real estate taxes and also contributions, I will say health care only. This means that municipalities, cities and counties must be able to decide in part of the tax, for example income tax, on the level of tax in certain minimum and maximum limits. By doing so, municipalities, cities and counties would get a powerful instrument of fostering development in their area. And it's very simple. Lower tax attracts investment, investments create new jobs, new jobs bring new tax revenues and the result is more people who work and in the budget more money. And we don't have to be afraid of competition. It's very necessary. As competition between economic operators is needed, in which we all agree, competition between cities and cities, municipalities and municipalities, counties and counties is needed and it can in any way promote development and each unit of local and regional self-government knows best what development it wants to create and what will encourage lower rates of tax. So I repeat once again if the municipalities, cities and counties as a whole in the Istrian County get a single kuna more IDS will support this law. But we're asking to help those who will lose their means overnight. Once again, I underline in Istria it is a drastic Rovinj and the Istrian County itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75762	Thank you. At 11.38, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. ... There are 20 MPs reported, and we'll be working without a break so that we can have this debate finished somewhere until 3:00 p.m. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75763	Your Honor, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75764	Here you go, buddy Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75765	"If units of local self-government," said Mr. Drandic "from the County of the Istrian Age one kuna more IDS will be for." Although on the other hand here I got a little before the calculations for some, almost all local self-government units in Istria, Istria County is probably the only county of 20 that loses to 210 million budgets of 7 and a half million kuna. Rovinj loses 30 million kuna. Kanfanar 300 thousand kuna. Krshan loses a million and 300 thousand kuna. Poreč gets 3 million kuna, Umag loses 2 million 700 thousand kuna. Medulin gets a million and 600 thousand kuna, Vrsar plus 200 thousand kuna, Marchana gets 800 thousand kuna. Pazin gets 800 thousand kuna, Vodnjan gets 1 million kuna, Pula gets 10 million kuna. Rasa loses 700 thousand kuna, Novigrad gets 1 million kuna, Gračisje, Buzet, Laniste, Motovun, Lupoglav gets something small. But what's the point? What's there to say? This isn't about decentralisation. This is just about redistributing between local self-government units. I agree that the profits of these great monopolies spoken of by Mr Schucker are not only wrong to retain Zagreb, but the projections for 2007 show that unlike this year's profit tax revenue of 4 billion 592 million kuna in the 2007 Budget, 7 billion 728 million kuna or plus 68.3% will be combined compared to 2006. According to government projections for, from the budget we're going to discuss in seven days. So that's plus 3 billion 136 million kuna from profit tax. On the other hand, income tax revenues are planned next year in the budget of €406 million compared to €3 billion in 2006 when planned for €3 billion 323 million. The state is therefore denying a billion 917 million kuna and plans 57.7% less on this basis. When we put each other in the correlation, we see that the difference of one billion is 220 million kuna, but for the projections that seem to be for 2005 and not for 2007, what they're going to say is that these changes in the states make the next year or they still get another billion kunas. Croatia, as Drandic said, needs decentralisation. Fiscal decentralisation, fiscal autonomy, radical decentralisation of powers modelled by other European countries. In the 1980s, our congregation was elected by judges, both the head of the catastra and the head of finance and the chief of police and the inspectors and the head of the national defence. In the 1980s, the municipality's congregations financed both education and justice and health and utility, and today 560 circus units of local self-government and regional self-government account for 7% of that fiscal income. The city of Zagreb is on the other side 7%. So this is not about decentralisation, gentlemen. This is about redistributing between local self-government units, not between state and local self-government units, but within local self-government. That's the point. Drandic said I'll do it again. We don't have all the calculations yet. "If the County of Istria gets one kuna we will support the law." But what should be done? The next two, next year for 2008 when all the effects of this Act will be actuated should be written a new Law on the financing of units of local self-government. And it finally needs to open up a whole package of redistributions between the state and local self-government because obviously this situation as it is today is extremely, extremely imperceptible. The truth is growing, someone here was saying I think Mr. Mrksic wins, but why does he work? So that the great monopolies who took over these companies in the Republic of Croatia could benefit abroad. Well HT, I don't know, I guess there's over 2 billion kunas to get. Well, they may have two-thirds and got to Germany. Banks certainly have a profit of about 3 billion kuna, more than 50% of the profits they get abroad and they say, look at what, what foreign investment you have in Croatia, and that is actually the money left behind by those banks that we sold to them there in '99, 2000. Tourism, it's the same situation. So, gentlemen, it's time, and I think it might be one of... more radical reforms, which, unfortunately, no authority wishes to access decentralisation or fiscal autonomy, powers and so on in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why aren't the governments ready to do that? Because in this way and without electoral legitimacy, they can control through donations from the budget of the environment where they have not won the election victory. So for the end, once again I will say for the third time if the units of local self-government and one kuna we will support this law in the County of Istria, but here in no way is the redistribution between state and local self-government. This is actually about redistributing within the local self-government itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75766	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75767	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Cain is obviously trying to revise history today in this Croatian Assembly, so he says that in the 1980s the municipalities elected judges, directors, officials. In the 1980s, the only party, the Communist Union elected judges, officials, directors and so on. ... So there you have it, sir, Mr. Caine's word was [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's a one-party system. [[The intruders don't understand.]] If you accept the totalitarian system, we certainly don't. It's a party system. If you accept the totalitarian system, we certainly don't. I would ask you if I could finish my thought. .../President: Please proceed!/...... Comrade Cain, it was a totalitarian, one-party, communist system. Therefore,.../President: Please do not say that this is the same thing. If the same thing is for you in Croatia, it is certainly not.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75768	Order! Honorable representative Vlado Jelkovac. One moment. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75769	Thank you, Mr. President. Article 214 is injured. This wasn't any sort of correction to an incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75770	I disagree with you. It was a correction to an incorrect quote. The second amendment. Here's your esteemed representative, Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75771	Mr. President, two things as well. First, Mr. Cain keeps saying it's not about decentralisation, it's just about redistribution. I'm correcting it in a way to say that it's still decentralisation, and we've all agreed in this House many times that it's not good that all profit tax goes to the center since it's, that it's the headquarters and center of all the major trade chains, banks, telecoms, etc. And also what was corrected by my colleague, where Mr. Cain claimed that local self-government units were elected by police chiefs, judges, directors. I would say this: “Keep us God of such choices and appointments!” because we know that these were parties in the municipal committees.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75772	Third correction, respected representative Zeljko Nenadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75773	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm correcting my colleague Cain's incorrect claim that the situation is extremely unspective. I would say that for Croatia, for Croatians and for Croatians in the 1980s, the situation was extremely unspective, and today when 95% of the mayors and commissioners support this law, I think we should all be there for him.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75774	Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75775	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Cain's first answer is because then I'm sure we have four votes for this bill. When the effects are summed up, but I am now talking about the 2007 estimates because the law is proposed on the basis of relevant indicators and the only relevant indicators for one year are in 2005 because it is fully implemented, and I will now try to base the bill for the first ten months of this year simply to reassure and you will see that the financial indicators are not exactly what they want to show up to challenge this bill. So, the Istrian County, when summed up this negative effect as far as the town of Rovinj is concerned, I said so in my opening statement, because simply before some things should not be glared. Things need to be seen as they are. So, the Istrian County, when the effects are summed up, how much are we going to say the exact same situation as the data base for the first ten months of this year. We apply one law, we apply another law. So, just a different redistribution. When the income of the Istrian County is summed up the budget of all local self-government units, therefore the revenue greater that would be achieved by the local self-government unit in the Istrian County is 31 million kuna more. Only the City of Pula will get almost 20 million kuna more. That's, I'm asking you nicely, these are estimates based on the collected incomes of 30.10. So, simulation of one bill, simulation of another bill proposal based on income on 30.10 this year. And when we play with a little math and numbers, I'm a supporter that best things are compared to numbers, but then we have to agree on a methodology. Because we can't get what's not right to throw out and leave what's right inside. So for the first 10 months of income tax income, therefore the tax charged on income in the Republic of Croatia is 8 billion 338 million kuna. But look, these 8 billion 338 million need to add 500 million kuna of income tax returned from this jury account to the name of income tax refund in areas of special state care. So we can round it up to 8.8 billion kuna. In total, the State gave up income tax. So that 21% stays. So she gave up 18% in favour of cities and municipalities or we could use another term. She left it to cities and municipalities 18%, 5% left it to the county and 1.6% to the name of decentralised functions. That's 24.6%. So let's either take it to make it easier for us to count that it's 25% or let's say it's out of these 8 billion and 800 is 2 billion and two hundred. Is that so or isn't it? This is based on this new law that the state is rerouting to local self-government units on behalf of the collected revenues for the first ten months of this year. That's the IRS data in the lip accurate. At the same time, for the exact same period, we have a raised profit tax of 6 billion and 476 million. Right? That's what the profit tax is for. The participation of local self-government units so 10+20 is 30%. So, simple mathematics at 6 billion and four hundred is a billion and 920 million. So, to rewrite this law now as it is in this year, the state would, on behalf of this share in profit tax, which units of local self-government would, as I say, have a billion twentys, and at the same time, on the basis of that part of income tax that is rerouted by a different redistribution to local self-government units, remain without two billion and two hundred million kunas of income. That's the difference of 300 million and that's what I've been saying for the last 15, 20 days as Minister of Finance, that the City of Zagreb will be left without 500 million kuna with the basis of this redistribution and that's quite frankly said. No one tried to hide it at any time. But at the same time, we said that based on these changes to the laws of the state, 300 million kuna is denied in favour of the units of local self-government. Because look, if we out of 533 units of local self-government only 30 of them, even though this only under quotes will feel negative about this change, and the other 500 will feel positive here is counterpart Mršić is Mayor of Koprivnica. According to the simulations that we made on the basis of income 1.1., 30.10. this year will get 11 million kuna more and that is the correct indicator and you can't, look...... So, look at your colleague Mršić. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] I know these indicators are not responding to you based on your debate. However, in a debate like this, a man must always leave his hand to continue the debate. If you want, you'll get more. And I'm sorry there aren't any colleagues of Lesar, colleagues of Lesar who aren't here. It proposes an entirely identical bill with not predicting the need to increase funds for county hospitals. And it suggests another additional thing, it suggests another additional thing to reroute income from real estate tax to local self-government units. And now, on the one hand, according to this proposal, the government's law is terribly critical. And this bill of law is good. So, colleagues and colleagues, based on indicators, revenue collection from 30.10., to make such a bill as the Government has sent and what I hope will be adopted by the Croatian Parliament today from 30.10. this year with income tax. Local self-government units would receive 2 billion kunas more, and with profit tax, the state would make less income, and with government income tax, local self-government units would receive a billion $900 million less. There, the city of Zagreb would lose the most, almost somewhere around a billion, 300 million, but it has an increased share of income tax so that the ultimate loss would be around 500 million. And so in this overall redistribution of funds to the single part and decentralisation because somewhere in our estimates, the state is 4% of the income tax rate of more than 4% of the income tax more than what, than if they were to fully compare profits and reroute income to local self-government units. So for this participation of 4 percentage points of income tax, we can talk about increased decentralisation. Please be nice, but your 4% is 300 million. Only those 1.6% for those five decentralised functions are 160 million. And out of those 160 million for increased decentralised functions, the City of Zagreb will get about 70 million. So it is not necessary to compare the data without determining the methodology and it is not necessary not to take all the processes that are very complex in this distribution and to consider them. I repeat, these are indicators of 30.10. And the government was doing three projections. One based on the reference sizes where the whole year is over, it's only 2005. She worked on the implementation of the budget for the first 10 months of this year, so revenue collection is based on tax administration data. The moment more than 90% of tax returns were processed, income tax returns were made. And based on certain macroeconomic projections and fiscal projections of revenues for next year, it has been working on the effect of such changes in the law in 2007. The probability is like this. And you can freely plan 11 million kunas in your budget next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75776	Thank you very much. We have corrections to incorrect allegations. The first is Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75777	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. Understandably, you have the right to your judgments. But we have our own. I didn't count, but for us these data that I've been presenting have been calculated in the financial administration in the County of Istria, Mrs. Silvana Kostešić, whom you know well, based on what we're told, is where I'm correcting the wrong allegation, that Pula doesn't accomplish plus 20 but plus 10 million kuna. On the other hand, Rovinj loses 30 million kuna. The County of Istria as a unit of local and regional self-government loses 7 and a half million kuna. One Poreč gets 3 million kunas. Umag loses 2 million and 700. One Medulin gets, gets Vrsar, gets Marchana, etc. It's going to go out somewhere, but away from the 30 million at the end it's going to show plus it's going to have a smaller, smaller, smaller range. The profit tax, of course, makes sense that it grows faster than income tax. The number of employees in this country is increasing by 2.3% annually. So, this...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75778	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75779	...income cannot monitor the flow...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75780	Thank you very much. You corrected the quote regarding... And it's a correction to an incorrect quote. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The second amendment, Mr. Zavodnik Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75781	So I would correct the minister that Koprivnica will get 11 million more next year if this law applies compared to the old one. This is incorrect because 5 years of Podravka, for example, had a transferred tax loss, and next year the year when the first time it started paying the profit tax and only its profit tax should be over 10 million. So, for us, it's... No, no, no, I get 20% of it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm 20 out of that, not me, but Koprivnica has 20%, yes. And as far as the numbers are concerned, we don't have data from the tax administration, but we're reading the state budget. The state budget says the total income tax revenue will be 3 billion and 140 million this year. So it's impossible or it's possible but then somewhere it hides, that part of that income doesn't go through... No, no, no, no. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] There's something, it's all going through the state budget. So there's... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75782	Thank you very much. No polemics are allowed to correct incorrect allegations. ... Third, Mr. Representative Slaven Letica, correction of the incorrect allegations. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75783	I would like to calm this tension at the level of members of the government and colleagues of Lesar. And that's why this quote to Lesar isn't as incorrect as he is dangerous. He threatened to slap the minister, or the Prime Minister, which would be technically difficult to perform, but no one did, and no one warned him about it. Such a threat must not be allowed because these people will bring in cold and warm weapons and will be fierce here in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75784	Thank you very much. This is more a correction to the intent of slapping than a correction to an incorrect quote. But let's move on. On behalf of the HSLS Club, Mr. Agent Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75785	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman Ladies and gentlemen, I said. [[And ladies.]] Croatia's government is the only world state, European and global in which mathematical calculations depend on political views. And depending on the political angle of view in the end, both mathematical budgets and calculations are made. Generally speaking, when we look at this government proposal, I would say it is not fiscal decentralisation but it is certainly the fiscal demetropolise of Croatia. The word is that we all take together a completely unfair and unfair tax on profits from the City of Zagreb, metropolis and not only in financial terms. Such fiscal metropolisation, which has ruled for 20 years, has led to social, sociological, political and I would say, in general, the metropolisation of Croatian society, of which the biggest damage will be to the people of Zagreb themselves, because we all see at least outside of us living in quieter, more orderly places that, unfortunately, the metropolisation of these daily, monthly, annual migrations, and all demographic trends do not follow the development of Zagreb, primarily infrastructure and traffic. And this is one way to help these fiscal dempopolisation units of local self-government, all those other cities except Zagreb. It was totally unfair, unfair, I would say absurdly that INA is earning its profits by polluting Sisak, and that the same profit tax only pays the citizens of Zagreb. It was completely unfair, absurd and harmful in this country that banks, telecommunications companies, tourist companies earn profits throughout Croatia, pay the most often in Zagreb, or only in those places where they are based. The basic condition and basic principle, the basic way, the basic reason why there is a local self-government right now is that where a citizen lives, there he pays taxes, where a citizen works, there's a company where he works where he's employed to pay taxes on profits. So that's the basic principle. Local self-government takes over certain functions, administrative and self-government precisely because citizens live in an area and because citizens in companies act, work, earn income in some area. Of course, we should all remember together that due to the historically inherited circumstances and the conditional uneven development of Croatia, the principles of solidarity should be introduced, that part of what citizens achieve where they live and where they work is poured into those areas where they may, where they live or where they do not live and do not work as much as perhaps in areas of greater density of population, richer historical heritage. And that is why, in general, you might argue that instead of these distributions for areas of special state concern, we should have introduced a certain percentage of solidarity across Croatia rather than in this way, I think we would have more effect. But let's not talk about this right now. What is a danger to this fiscal demetropolisation is the fact that what we took in Zagreb could indeed happen only to the state. So, gentlemen, we're gonna get that old lady so we don't give more crows than we give escape or we don't want to whisper our necks into a fat goose anymore, but that's why we're gonna shop on a fat duck. So it must not happen that what we have now re-distributed to Zagreb belongs to someone who is even richer, so the state should but should just ensure that what has been taken by fiscal redistribution is spread, scattered, distributed, distributed throughout Croatia. What is the greatest danger of such a proposal is the fact that, unfortunately, this loose decentralisation or we can say in some broader sense, decentralisation and demetropolisation are not also followed by administrative decentralisation, or by the fact that local self-government is now being redeployed something that can no longer be affected in the future even when it comes to the untaxable part of the salary or when it comes to tax rates. If we took seriously the decentralisation of ladies and gentlemen, then, as a legislative body along with this government proposal, we should also give the right to units of local self-government that they determine the rates of taxes, or that they can affect the non-taxable part, because in fact, we would also protect against the possibility that the state would say in a year, now we will increase the untaxable part of the salary, or we will now reduce the tax rates on income, and in this way we will actually completely undo the effects of what we are bringing today. Of course, the state can do that to itself when it comes to profit tax. But he probably won't set his own foot. Therefore, units of local self-government should, if they receive funds mostly from income tax, also play a dominant role in determining or at least co-determining. And if there's a way, we leave it to the Ministry of Finance that when we change those tax rates and censorship it must be, so either we have to consult local self-government units no matter how organized, then I think we'd actually avoid these dangers that I've been talking about so far. But I'd like to say something else. Generally, in general, taking it personally, I don't think it's good for us local self-government units to cut off the profit tax, or redistribute it in such a way that the total profit tax will now go exclusively to the state. Ladies and gentlemen, in the country of modest, in the country of shrubs, in the country we can thus say uncompetitive and incompetitive investment climates, investment environments, in a country where there may be a more noticeable anti-enterprise climate and atmosphere than a business environment, in a country that unfortunately has far too little green field investment, we will detimise these units of local self-government primarily cities to attract investment. Until now, the cities were mainly those who, and few of them were successful or smaller, some of the municipalities, attracted investments precisely because they created a particular investment environment and counted on the tax effects of attracting investments. In such a weak and I would say a little bit more perhaps looser activity, entrepreneurial activity, then management and entrepreneurship in local self-government, we are now actually going to demote local self-government units to attract investors to have both land and available municipal infrastructure. That in some ways they reduce administrative barriers and I'm afraid that the ultimate effect and the ultimate consequence, I think that we all have to think about it, could be that those environments that have been more successful in attracting investments so far, because they will no longer have the right to profit from investments, that they will actually have to raise local taxes to investors and entrepreneurs, mainly industry, and that they will, in this way, support these shortcomings. This could happen, and this is a great danger, especially as I warn you that recently, the Employers' Association has clearly identified that entrepreneurs from craftsmen to large industrialists pay almost 70 to 80 different duties in local self-government units. So now we have the forest of these regulations, we have actually one hyperinflation, so the entropy of these regulations, and it may happen to us that units of local self-government will, in some ways, remain uninvited from profit tax, have to resort to the fact that they compensate by tax on, or by various other local charges. So I think the Ministry of Finance and all of us, if we're seriously thinking, if we want to consider all possible consequences and positive and negative, then we should think about it. I would certainly like to play a little bit of words, so that these simulations are not also destimulating and that we actually create a stimulation of entrepreneurial, investment activities instead of vice versa. What we should also say when we talk about this decentralisation is the fact that if the effects of this redistribution are realized we are actually leaving to units of local self-government and through the Equality Fund that are more active, i.e. more proactive and more effective in planning development and that they are more successful in performing those public services for which they are actually competent, for which they are actually established. First of all, I mean education and health care. I think in addition to these remarks that I spoke about and with the application, unfortunately there is no minister, with a request to consider it, therefore, that in the future maybe part of the profit tax will be returned to the units of local self-government. Of course, in such a way that we are not just going to Zagreb and not going to the headquarters of the company. I think it's still about one shift, a shift that will at least lead to fiscal demetatropolisation, but we should also actually seek fiscal decentralisation, but also administrative decentralisation. And if local self-government units are entitled to income tax, then they should have both the right and the obligation to determine those rates.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75786	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Krono Markovinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75787	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, there are several incorrect allegations, first of all because they're general. Veli, there is a noticeable anti-enterprise climate in Croatia. That's not true. That's not true. I feel like I'm listening a few days ago to meet the IMF there. And they claim it and we explained nicely that every investor who wants to come here with honest intentions, he will accomplish it without a problem, and... Entrepreneurial, as far as detimulating cities are concerned. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] He's trying to detimulate probably Varazdin and the Council on Sunday, I agree. But my fellow residents say that thank them very much, so let the entrepreneurs go there, so let the entrepreneurs go there, let those who have unemployed residents stimulate them, because they're all on their way to work on all sides. Therefore, I think that now the opportunity for most cities and municipalities where unemployment is a little higher should be stimulated in all possible ways of arrival. And thirdly, says a colleague, the percentage of solidarity would have more effects than this on areas of special state concern.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75788	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75789	Well, the law doesn't apply to that at all. This applies to everything that is unfair...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75790	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75791	...where the company is on one side, and the company on the other.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75792	On behalf of the PGS Club, SBHS and MDS Mr. Representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75793	Dear Mr. Vice President, the respected representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. So let me, on behalf of the Club of the coastal-goran alliance, the Slavonian-Baranja Croatian Party and the Međimurje Democratic Union, look back on this Law and immediately point out that we will not support this Law. Why? Because we as regional parties advocate, and therefore have confirmed this in our documents, for rooted, true decentralisation and regionalisation of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, the adoption of this Law although it was presented in the media as a major step, therefore, towards decentralisation of the Republic of Croatia this Law will not be achieved. It was also interesting here earlier in the presentation of Minister Shuker, it was interesting to see how he hardly actually utters this word decentralisation. For us, as has already been said here, it is not about decentralisation but about redistributing budgets, and unfortunately not vertical but horizontal, therefore, horizontally. So the funds are in the vast majority, so between the units of local self-government, therefore, between cities, municipalities, counties and the City of Zagreb exactly to be the opposite. So, if money is released from the top down, money goes down a little left a little bit to the right. And now someone gets it, someone loses. Nobody knows how much, why, we don't think that's good. Globally, if we look at the relationship of all the budgets that are, for example, was recorded in 2005, and this relationship was approximately that, compared to the state budget, the funds that were intended, therefore, dropped to a lower level was somewhere high, I think, 11%. It means both for the City of Zagreb and for all counties and for all municipalities and cities. That the relationship would be about the same. So in this budget for 2007 90% goes to the state, and 10.11% goes to all cities, counties and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. It's interesting that 10 years ago the situation was different. Here's my review report for '97. The year that tells us that this relationship was, so the budgets went 82.8% to the state, to the City of Zagreb 5.7%, and to the units of local self-government and administration as it is called 11.5%. So, this trend has been shrinking year by year, and it currently remains the same, and we are pushing for a much more radical decentralisation, for a much more radical redistribution of fiscal resources, so we are going to go to one limit that 40% of all the funds that are made available in a region at least 40% remain in that area, and 60% are going to the state or less, and then normally there is talk about regionalisation, i.e. on strong regions in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. that the state puts as much power as possible to lower levels, primarily to regions, so that the government itself and the ability to control the authorities and influence the authorities are as close as possible to the citizens. Unfortunately, that's not what's happening. Right now, the regions are the most severed. So we're witnessing that it's actually a stronger state, and it's weakening our regional structure. So there were words here, Minister Shuker said that the state was famously, so he said generously, we could say he denied some 800 million kunas, and we saw earlier, so he himself admitted that of those 800 million kunas a large part, so about 500 million kunas refer to the City of Zagreb whose resources will therefore be redistributed to other cities and municipalities. We are not therefore preventing Zagreb from reducing its budget, but on the contrary, so that all our municipalities and cities and counties have as much funds as the City of Zagreb, but not that it goes to the burden of the City of Zagreb, but that it goes to the burden of the state because the state here gave up in the words of the ministers somewhere around 300 million kuna. The state budget for 2007 is higher, regardless of all these changes, by 8 billion, 665 million kuna compared to last year. Tax revenues in 2007 will be 4 billion HRK 613 million higher than tax revenues on 2006. So we see that the state is not going to the minus but going to a very thick plus. It is pointed out here that this Law was adopted in accordance with the requirements of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government and the conclusions of certain working bodies in connection with the necessary changes in distribution. We can therefore agree that there are really necessary changes in distribution, and most of them are just the highlighted problem with the profit tax. But all units, then, all alliances warned that it would be dealt with in such a way that the profit tax would be shared, so that way towards where companies work, not where their headquarters is. The government suggests that all that profit tax goes to the state budget. We can't support that. We think it's very important, that it's very important that the profit tax stays also where companies operate especially for the development of the economy because what will happen, from which funds will the municipalities attract, finance, stimulate entrepreneurs? How's it going, for example? Is that done by the Međimurje County? From what means? In the County of Međimurje, therefore, it is one of the counties in which income is reduced because its income tax is abolished, and income tax growth does not even cover the suspension and the county will be minus 500 thousand kuna. Can we expect any changes in the future? No, I don't. The question is, will there be any change in income tax in Međimurje County? And why is that? Because of the structure of employees in Međimurje County. In Međimurje County, a week of 888 employees are opened, with as many as 11000 742 employees employed in the processing industry, and an average salary in the industry is 2 thousand 999 kuna. That's 2005 data. Now it's something more, but the relationship is the same. So almost half has a salary below 3,000 kuna. What kind of income tax will that be? 3,000 and 300 are employed in an economy where the average salary is 2 thousand and 600 kuna. The store employs 3 thousand 109, the average salary is 2 thousand 680 kuna. In real estate business, renting is a thousand and a hundred, there's a slightly higher salary, somewhere three thousand and 300 kuna. Can such wages affect the development of the economy, attract entrepreneurs and the like? I'm sure he can't, because unfortunately that's not what he meant. So what we're proposing is what we should do if I want to see one rooted, true, so decentralisation that a profit tax should not give all the state but be distributed to where companies work. Income tax such as the whole should go into the budgets of municipalities, cities and counties, and what should certainly be introduced and what should then, we would then talk about the even development of the Republic of Croatia to introduce rents and chieftains, i.e. municipality, city and county income per capita per capita. So it would be one sure income of the municipality, the city and the county, so they would have some kind of safe income that they could have in the way that would best suit them. I said before, so it won't be important to break that relationship 10% to all municipalities, cities and counties, 90% to the state. There are counties, including Međimurje County where the situation is quite difficult. It can actually illustrate this relationship between national and local taxes. In 2005, the state budget was 85 million kuna. The budget of all cities, the county, was somewhere around 11 and a half, 12 billion kuna. What exactly does that mean in our county? In our county since 2005, the total total total total of all the budgets of municipalities, city and county were 250 million kuna. It was 0.25% compared to the state budget. Or if they were to share it by the number of inhabitants, it would be 2,000 kuna per capita per year. So annually 2,000 kunas were income per capita for every resident in Međimurje. This is, for example, the opposite of the fact that 120 thousand inhabitants live in our county in Međimurje, which again accounts for 2.5% of the total population of the Republic of Croatia. This therefore tells us that, in this sense, we must do something to be able to talk about even development, so that we can talk about that our municipalities, the city and the county will have enough resources to serve the current obligations they have towards their citizens, not to mention some new obligations that are announced but also in the speech of the Minister in the following year. For all these reasons, our club will not support this law because we advocate true and root decentralisation and regionalization. This law doesn't go that way. I repeat again, it is a redistribution between, meaning a horizontal redistribution between municipalities, cities and counties. In part, it includes the state and our goal is to give up much, much bigger cakes than it has today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75794	Thank you. Correction Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75795	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague said it's not about decentralisation, it's about redistributing funds. That's just not true. It is about decentralisation of funds, and it is finally time for you colleagues to admit that it is not justified that the profits made in the entire country, in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia, can only be used by the City of Zagreb. Take the INA, take the Telecommunications. Admit that this is injustice and this injustice today we are correcting through this law, this kind of decentralisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75796	Thank you. But not Vidovic. He took it back. He doesn't have an application either. ... Well, he did, but he pulled it. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We can't do that, then others would do that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You know. I can't make an exception. Thank you very much. It is next to the Club of Representatives of the HSS, Mr. Representative Zvonimir Sabati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75797	Mr. Vice President, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs. Allow me, on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club, to state our views on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government. First of all, let me say that this isn't the proposal the HSS was expecting. Regardless of the entire series of polemics that are being run here, we at HSS feel that this is not a real decentralisation. We can only really talk about a certain, different redistribution of tax revenues. This is, above all, based on the fact that this will not significantly change the ratio of total income at national and local level. This ratio, and in public, is more or less something we know about it, has always mentioned about 92% to 8%. Is this law going to change that ratio? It won't matter. It's not really decentralisation. And indeed all those who say it's a real decentralisation, this must be a clear sign to me that it's just a redistribution. By seeking to make certain changes to the redistribution in tax revenues, we believe that this is an important law to wait so long and that now, before the budget is adopted, it is going to an emergency procedure. This should have been put in session before this, in real reading, heard suggestions and a series of suggestions. I hope that everyone would make useful suggestions and suggestions, and that after that, we could really do so before adopting this draft budget with the final draft of the law. Namely, we as the Croatian Peasant Party strongly support the idea of real decentralisation not only redistribution of funds but assuming that it really enables the even development of the whole of Croatia and what is very important to finally set up a fair system of financing units of local self-government rather than through certain discretionary "political rights" of any government. That politically similar units of local self-government allow greater state resources. We need to set up such a system for municipal and city leaders to compete with their ability and creativity, not for certain political pressures, and sometimes for games to hinder the development of local environments, or for it to be decided politically or discreetly. When I mentioned at the beginning that I should have gone to first reading, we could have talked about it a year ago and, six months ago talked but it wasn't here in the parliamentary first-reading procedure. As the main prerequisite for creating decentralisation for the even development of all parts of Croatia, certain standards need to be set above all. What kind of environment should it have, after all, get to ensure a normal life for people in all these environments. In order to reach these standards, it should be recalled that once larger centres developed at the expense of settlements and smaller places and that the unequal development of then large municipalities and smaller communities in these municipalities would not even speak. So, the poor environments used to get a little bit, now they're going to get even less. In fact, working intensive environments with more employees will get more of this bill proposal and environments with fewer employees less, even less, and this will further deepen the gap between the rich. ... We'll see about that, Mr. Representative. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You have some kind of stimulation. Why didn't we get that stimulation on the bench? Why are you hiding them? Don't. ... Well, don't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Why are you throwing me out of the bench? Keep it quiet. Or at HSS, we believe that by believing that poorer municipalities will get even less that there will be a gap between richer and poorer regions. I'm afraid that the village will find it even more difficult to live, and therefore, population policy falls into the water. Of course, other solutions were announced to redistribute the income tax to the place of tax rather than to the company headquarters. You could read about it in the paper, it was announced by the Prime Minister himself. Okay, it is the right of the ruling majority to propose solutions that it considers to be the best and tax on profit taken by states. But let's take a look at who most? It's a key question. The biggest cities. But I'm asking here if the ruling majority would have decided on the move if it had the mayor of the City of Zagreb, the mayor of Rijeka, the mayor of Osijek, for example. They say local self-government units will get more. Indeed, we would like to have all these concrete indicators, that we have that simulation, even if we just see the number of municipalities that will get more, which will get less. Often we hear from the bench that 95% of the municipalities and cities will get more. Unfortunately, according to our simulations that were probably done on foot based on the data that we could have done in this short time, I don't think that's quite so. I'll give you only three examples. For example, the city of Ludbreg from my Varazdin County from which I come will get more. So far, he has had income from profit tax of 600 thousand kuna and income tax of 4 million kuna. On the basis of this proposal, the law will give them 6 million kuna. I'm talking round figures. The town of Prelog neighbouring Međimurje County has so far had income from profit tax of 2.5 million kuna and from income tax also 2.5 million kuna. Now, with this bill of law, they're going to get less than a million and 200 thousand kuna. The municipality of Martianec, it was already spoken of, a colleague representing the Korenika was saying a little something. It with 4.5 thousand inhabitants will have fewer incomes under this law. It is, in fact, that it has attracted several significant investors to certain benefits, but these are investors with rather modern high-tech technologies. But there will be relatively fewer employees but therefore the profit tax will be more significant and larger. Also, such benefits were made possible by the Martianec municipality and the opening of a larger number of crafts, and they would, of course, achieve increased and higher turnover through their business, and it would be more likely than 2 million kuna, and therefore, according to the legal provisions, they would need to pay a profit tax rather than as income tax so far. And that's why it stays in the state section. Also, the increase in funds for decentralised functions goes according to existing legal solutions only to counties and those cities that have decided to take over for example basic schooling. However, a large number of municipalities and cities will not receive anything in their budget based on this redistribution. There's a lot of mention of the fund... And 21% that will go to that fund. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For whom, though, are these funds intended? That's what it says here in the bill. It is for those units of local or regional self-government that have decentralised functions, not for all municipalities and cities, and decentralised functions are primary schooling, secondary schooling, healthcare, social care and fire departments. So when we talk about the fire department, it is precisely this increase in firepower that remains only for public troops, although it was announced among other things that the president of the Croatian Fire Department said that something could change and that voluntary fire companies were involved in the redistribution. Areas of special state concern, mountain-mounted areas and islands are improving the situation of these proposed laws. So I hope so, and it will be, I have no doubt, in a way to pay back a part of their income tax or an additional share of the income tax. And what about municipalities and those units of local self-government that don't belong in this category and have tax revenues below 65% of the state average? No one's talking about it. But speaking of these 21% and the balancing fund to me, you always know when I read any proposal, it always kind of bothers me when I read in it that the terms and criteria for the allocation of funds will help, let's say, balances determine the Government of the Republic of Croatia by their decision. So why don't we make public these criteria that everyone can know by what criteria anyone will get and how much they will get. Well, that's it. We have before us this bill of law, which is addressed and will likely be accepted by the parliamentary majority. In conclusion, this is not the proposal for the real financial decentralisation that the HSS expected. This will not contribute to the even development of Croatia and we believe that an even greater gap will be created between poorer and richer, but we also believe that this is not stimulating enough for the local economic development of each unit of local self-government. And precisely for these reasons HSS will not support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75798	Thank you. We've got corrections. The first is Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75799	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Indeed, it was difficult to listen to such a large number of false things that a colleague made. First of all, he said it wasn't a real decentralisation, it was a redistribution. It's not true, it's not true. Secondly, he said municipalities with fewer employees will now get even less. It's not true. Third, he said the government does not publish public conditions, aid criteria and so on. It's not true. Because the government publishes all decisions publicly. Another thing, isn't it decentralisation for you that the City of Osijek is going to get 56 million kuna? Isn't it decentralisation for you that the Karlovac will get 28 million kuna? That Dubrovnik will get 15 million kunas? That 95% of the municipalities and cities in Croatia will receive 700 million kuna next year. 700 million kuna goes to cities and municipalities. 100 million kuna goes to the county next year based on these decisions. And plus additionally for what you said about the decentralised functions of 164 million kunas to the same cities, municipalities and counties.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75800	Thank you. ... Thank you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Correction Mr. Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75801	Thank you, Mr. President. So I think there are amazing things going on. When something happens to us that we've all been looking for, all of a sudden, pessimism. I would've fixed this. He says that the larger resources of the state give to similar cities, similar neighborhoods he seems to have told me, similar cities and municipalities. I'm asking my colleague to tell me where it's most built? Here's an example of Rijeka, amazing investment in, states in universities. Let's see who picked up the credit claim last year? When we were looking we couldn't even get it, was it? And those of you who have not received much from this country, do I not understand why?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75802	We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Sabati, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75803	My dear colleague, I did not say that it is given, but I only said that we should set such criteria that they will not be given in any way politically similar. It's what you need to put into the law. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75804	What is the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and what was the article?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75805	Because he was saying what I wasn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75806	You can't do that. You have to call on the article and tell me what the Rules of Procedure is hurt. Let's move on. Ivan Vucic, correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75807	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd like to correct a few allegations of a respected representative of Sabati. First of all, he focused his debate on the fact that this was a political decision and that the government went with an amendment to this law to please cities and municipalities where the Croatian Democratic Community is in power and he supported it with the fact that surely the Government would not change this law to have mayors of large cities, mentioned Zagreb, Rijeka, Pula and so on. I'd just like to defuse it. U, winners of Osijek 56 million, Great Gorica 21 million, Pula 20 million. County of Zagrebačka 17 million, Koprivnica 11 million. River 8 million. Sisak-Moslavina County 8 million. So it was not politics, but what was guaranteed by the Constitution and what we all wanted to develop evenly throughout Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75808	Thank you, Mr. Vlado Jelkovac's correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75809	Mr. Vice President, I intend to correct everything that my colleagues have said before, and yet once again, I will mention that it is not an exact claim that it is not about true decentralisation, but it is about fellow Sabati on decentralisation. And I will repeat this thought that was corrected by Mr. Vukic because my colleague Sabati said this way: "It would not go with this law that HDZ is in power in Zagreb, Rijeka, Osijek and some other cities. It is all those cities he mentioned except Zagreb that receive redistribution according to this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75810	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Miroslav Korenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75811	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So this is exactly what these corrections of incorrect allegations show and indicate that there are representatives of the first and second order in this House. If the government had serious and correct intentions, wouldn't it have given all of us agents in the material that came in to stimulate and give as much information as anyone gets and as much as anyone loses? This way we're unequal Well, respected colleagues, the minimum of decency is to listen if nothing else. [[The intruders don't understand.]] If you won't listen, step outside. And let me talk. ... I beg you, Mr. Vice President, to protect me from the incursions. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the unquestionable fact is that if we don't have the information, we don't even know what the government has been working on. That's the first thing. The other thing was you... the majority coalition recognises or does not recognise this Act does not affect an increase in the degree of financial decentralisation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Just the last correction of the assumption was that this was a redistribution. Give your thoughts and stories a little bit. You keep telling us it's decentralisation, but it's about the most common redistribution. We will most certainly take the city of Zagreb, which is certainly not the case that we want the City of Zagreb to be taken, but we want everyone else in Croatia to get even more than they have so far. Then it's true decentralisation. The other thing, the local and regional self-government of the continuous amendments to the laws of which was not immune to any parliamentary majority so far, we do not give them the opportunity to plan revenues several years in advance. And it would be good, I once again note that the Government and the Ministry of Finance gave all of us representatives of stimulation for every city and municipality in the Republic of Croatia, for each county and the City of Zagreb. Stimulation not only for the next few years, but for the next few years. Then we'd have really good and quality data. We'd have good grounds for discussion. This way it's not like that. The Prime Minister, Mr. Sanader, has promised me, in one answer to the parliamentary question of counterpart Czechoko of Varazdin, that he will solve the tax on profits in a way that will be fairer, fairer distribution. I assure you this is neither fair nor just distribution that only the state gets a share in profit tax. It certainly isn't. It would be normal for me, and it is in line with the SDP Club's amendment that the counties also have the opportunity to get a part of the profit tax because if we can't tell what the share of the profit tax is for the individual city and the municipality but for the counties, the number of residents, the criterion of development and everything else could be done. Only that there's political will. This is not how we have it. At the same time, only this year, by changing or adopting dozens of new laws, have we given additional financial commitments to both local and regional self-government. Remember, I was a representative when we passed these laws in the debates and asked: where are the funds provided for municipalities, cities and counties related to the Law on elemental disasters where obligations are made to co-finance the insurance of agricultural crops? Do you think this is enough money to make it happen? I'm sure you don't. What we will say about the counties that have obligations related to a package of health laws where they must either refinance or finance their general hospitals and not only general hospitals but full health care. The Varazdin County with a general hospital has three special hospitals where the least people of the Varazdin County are treated mostly from the rest of Croatia, and any losses, development and all other salaries of the Varazdin County. Therefore, I am quite certain and convinced that the planned part of health care of 3.2% in income tax is not enough for counties to co-finance and run health policy in their area. In addition, when it comes to us that the Croatian Health Insurance Authority determines how it determines without clear criteria, without clearly published criteria, then it is no wonder that our health care is collapsed and that general hospitals, in part, and special hospitals do so irrationally. I'm also interested in how we're going to be able to influence specific municipalities and cities, meaning local self-government, which so far has often been denied to attract and have as many investors as possible, as many new greenfield investments as possible, as many new production plants. It's just that there's a lot of new jobs. Which now gives them the right to keep doing it. It will be the only way that if someone is already coming to them and opening a factory to exclusively employ the native population, because then they could possibly benefit from income tax. This is how the profit tax goes back to Zagreb and the question of how it will be deployed and how these municipalities and cities will benefit from it. Are they still trying to get cheaper land, construction land to build the plant, lower municipal contributions, lower utility prices, good infrastructure and everything else? Well, they don't have any more interest. Only with the hiring of the host population to go after all together to pray that the next year or maybe this or the next year the untaxed part of the salary simply does not increase the censorship. That's because income tax will be lower again. No one guarantees us that the Government will not propose this to this Visa House, perhaps during the first budget rebalance. So it seems like we're talking a lot here, and we're all convinced it's decentralisation. But I'm asking you one more time at the end of your left-hand colleagues, to me on the left-hand side of this High House, give me your presentations and don't talk about decentralisation being a little bit redistributed, because it looks like when you do, your mouth is faster than you think. But the fact is and this is also said in one of our financial logs that the state will profit from this alleged decentralization next year, of course, given the projections of the budget one full twenty-two billion kuna. I hope that the Minister and Prime Minister will deny experts from the Economic Institute, because if we are already not able to count the opposition, and we are not sufficiently directed, and I assume that economic experts from one of the most important economic institutions in this country know far more about it than we do. This is exactly one of the reasons why I'm not going to support the motion to pass this law. But I will also support the amendment proposed by the SDP where in a completely different and much more correct way these issues are addressed, because I still believe that the profit tax goes to a complete central state is not good and there is no incentive for units of local and regional self-government to act to strengthen the economy in their area. Because, however, if we want to have competition between municipalities, cities and counties, we need to give that and through profit tax those who are more capable, those who have better programs that will also lead their policy better and better to get some of that tax on profits, which unfortunately is not the case at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75812	Thank you. We have a correction. First Mr. Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75813	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, that's not me. Here, a colleague says immediately in the introduction that there are representatives of the first and second order to list them in a row. All those who provided accurate data began by Mr. Cain on the lip, Mr. Mršić, fellow Sabati, colleague Vukic, and I could be included in telling you the exact details of my city but I would rather remain a representative of the second order. So it's not true. Do your best. You can access the data and calculate the data. No problem. Keep going. It is incorrect that there is no longer any interest in cities and municipalities to stimulate the arrival of the company. Well, first of all, you're all talking about unemployment. So make sure you make an effort there, give them maximum terms and let the company come and hire someone, and if you can choose the company and choose the company and those who have a little better pay. I won't go any further, come on another time!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75814	Correction Mr. Ivan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75815	So in his presentation, counterpart Korenik said that the government should have made an effort to give all MPs the information I previously read about municipalities and cities and counties that this redistribution would get more. That's just not true. That's not what we got from the government, but we got data from our club from our valuable employees who made that comparison, and you'd be credible in your statement that you also reacted when your colleague Cain read it. No, you only reacted when a representative of the Croatian Democratic Community read it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75816	Thank you. Correction Mr. Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75817	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So again, I'm going to correct the incorrect assumption that it's not about centralization. It's about decentralisation of colleagues. If you really want to send a message to the Croatian public that you are in favour of coming to the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia to win only come true in the City of Zagreb, then say so, then say so. We are in favour of where the income is coming from, and it is coming throughout Croatia. Our citizens spend on fuel from Prevlaka to the Savadria Wave and to Vukovar. Our citizens spend on cigarettes all over Croatia. Therefore, let those funds be distributed evenly. That's what this is about. And today we have a case that exclusively the profits of these companies remain in the City of Zagreb. We want to evenly distribute that profit. And once again, cities and municipalities in the entire Republic of Croatia get 700 million kuna, and the counties get another 100 million kuna and plus decentralised functions by which this bill gives them another 1464 million kuna, so calculate how much it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75818	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative of the Koreans. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75819	I'm sorry, but you didn't warn me, I'm referring to article 214 but my colleagues are correcting my claim about something I haven't talked about at all. So just listen to the phonogram.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75820	214 is spoken when the warning is made. And when the warning isn't said, then you're wrong. Let's move on. Representative Vlado Jelkovac, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75821	I'd like to correct two of Mr. Korenick's claims. First, where it says that this side needs to be agreed with itself to say once that it is decentralisation, and second time about redistribution. It's Mr. Korenik we've been claiming all along it's about decentralisation. And another claim that I really don't think is the unknown thing where Mr. Korenika says that now the chiefs, or units of local self-government, will have no interest and motive to encourage investment in their own area. One who knows the budgets of local self-government units knows that of all tax revenues over 80% are income taxes and therefore the interest is also the motive for additional employment, the creation of new jobs, because through new employment, local budgets will be filled even more than ever before in relation to the previous law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75822	Thank you. Another violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75823	This Regulation shall enter So I said, if you listen carefully to your colleague, it doesn't fail to correct the incorrect quote because I am right away very clearly and accurately explaining how it can be stimulated. But I can see that, and you were just one of those guys who said a little decentralisation and a little redistribution. So just focus a little more, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75824	Listen, your first intervention for... The rules of procedure weren't right. [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] And I gave you the second time right so it's still wrong because he was correcting what he thought you said. ... Well, he thought and corrected what he thought. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Therefore, another incorrect violation of the Rules of Procedure. But how eloquent I am, then let's move on. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Anto Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75825	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Korenik said there's no decentralisation going on, that we're chasing around the concepts of decentralisation and redistribution. The decentralisation mechanism of redistribution is really happening, so you're wrong. Second, a second correction to the quote that you said that we should pray to God not to raise the foundation of the untaxable work. You don't have to pray to God I think it's a very clear view of the government, not to touch the base of the non-taxable part as your previous government did in the part of regrouping the income tax rate that you brought to the counties from 5 to 8, municipalities and cities from 25 to 32 at that time. But within a month of that, you built the base of an untaxable part with a thousand 150 to 1,000 kuna, so the county, cities and municipalities didn't get any of that decentralisation of yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75826	Let's move on, it's Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75827	Dear Vice President, gentlemen of the Ministry of Finance. It might be good to see what it's like in other countries, isn't it, that we don't always discover hot water about the fairness of the distribution of income tax in, between central and regional and local levels. So let me say from one study done in collaboration with the Ministry of Finance according to the data highlighted on the Ministry of Finance's website that therefore some other countries are doing a fairer or unfair distribution of income tax between the central, regional and local levels. So in Austria, 73% retain the central level, 15% regional and 11% local. In Belgium, 35% retains central, 59 regional, 5 local. In Canada 65% central, 35% regional, local nothing. In Czech Republic 72% central, 27% local. In Denmark, 13% central, colleague Matusic, go, so be correct when spoken, right? No, I don't have any information for Cuba, but I will if you're interested in getting it. Although I'm sure you can get that information at the club if you try, you know, like these receipts you got at the club. And you may have that, you may have information about Cuba, no. In Finland, 79% is central and 20% is local. In Germany 30% central, 32% regional, 38% local. In Japan 61% central, 38% local. Luxembourg 70% central, 30% local. Switzerland 47% central, 36% regional, 19% local. In America, it's 84% central, 13% regional and 1 and a half percent local. We can draw a conclusion from this, those who have heard that in developed countries of the European continent, including Japan, there is always some kind of redistribution of the profit tax between the central, regional and local levels. I can draw conclusions now, which is why it's not. But the fact is that all these three levels, and at the most two, central and local, have an impact on business performance. Because if some local environment, and lately, and in the last 15 years or as many cases as we've had, have had such cases that some municipalities and cities have significantly influenced that they have a favourable entrepreneurial climate and that they are coming to invest in these cities, they are founded by companies, small, medium, large, crafts, etc., etc. Then they do it because, of course, they would solve and certain jobs would be opened. But also so that with the basis of these investments, that is, the performance of these companies' operations would have some benefit and some revenue. We are now actually punishing this law of these municipalities and cities because we simply take away from them in one year what they have been making assumptions over the past period. Because if it had been announced that all taxpayers would be central government, perhaps these municipalities and cities would have thought differently or otherwise defined the prices of municipal services, local taxes that they could influence. Perhaps they would have different concepts of their development at all, so they would not go to, say, jobs that are low-paid than jobs that are better paid or maybe go to opening jobs in the public sector, and not in the private sector, etc. etc. So we here at 5 to 12 or 5 o'clock are changing the tax policy relative to the units of local self-government. You have a whole series of other problems here because unfortunately no simulation has been done, no matter how hard Minister Schuker worked on it, but if we're reading next year's budget we don't have, we didn't have anyone at the club to calculate it for us, we're counting on ourselves, you know. We are not calculated by Shuker but have our own data and analysis of the budget and analysis of the budget of the unit of local self-government and according to these budgets shows what I was talking about on behalf of the club, which is that in the future more income tax than income tax and that more income from the state budget from profit tax than from the units of local self-government will receive from the basis of the income tax allocated. It simply doesn't need any calculation, it just needs to read the budget. You have a budget for this year where income tax has grown 7%, or that it is planned to grow 7%, and at the same time tax is going to rise 16% and you have a situation with next year, which is being talked about by a colleague named Lesar, where it is projected according to the budget, I don't know if it's a budget error, maybe we get another budget on Wednesday, but the budget shows that income tax is going to fall from 2006 and that profit tax is going to grow 25%. Dear Matušić, read the budget. But read the budget, don't read what your club calculates, but read what you get on the bench unless we get different materials. You know, if we get the same materials and we read the same materials, then that's just the situation. For example, you know how much my city is going to get, Koprivnica, are one of the administrative natures because someone calculated it with the basics in 2005 or 2006 administratively because he said ok. It's going to grow, income tax is going to grow 5%, 6% doesn't matter now, and profit tax is going to rise I don't know 10%, and then they really are such indicators. But gentlemen of the following year, for example, the town of Koprivnica, and thus the Koprivnica-Kristevnica County is all that happens in one local self-government unit positively or negatively with the tax base, has an impact on the county since we share those two taxes, or so far we've shared, should therefore be doubled because tax laws are such that two or three companies that are profitable have the right to transfer tax, or to wear, so on the so-called. the tax loss and that only next year will the first time start paying it seriously and that next year the income tax will almost equalise with the profit tax. And now someone who has waited patiently for four or five years to be transferred to the central budget, and in the local budget says that we will have 11 million surpluses. I'd be willing to accept that it's true if the government signed here that all those who won't make such a positive difference, make peace with the alignment fund, then they'd really say ok. These are fair budgets. But here we only have allegedly some paper or allegedly projections, and no one wants to stop and not guarantee it but assures us that we could at the club figure out what revenue will be or won't be. We are. We have our indicators, you have your indicators, we'll see 31.12.2007. We'll see who was right. You know that, very soon you'll see who was right. We here claim we're right, you claim you're right. What's wrong is that even one unit of local self-government is reducing taxes. It is not fair to the citizens of that unit of local self-government, even if that unit of local self-government is called Zagreb, if it was called Saint Sunday, if it was called Rovinj, if it was called Rijeka or Split, it is all one thing. It's not fair to take someone to give to someone else. decentralisation means that it will be reduced, i.e. that part of public finances' tax revenues will be redistributed in a way that local self-government will gain more, and decentralisation cannot mean that the state budget will be more income compared to local budgets. Maybe so, but you have to ask a gentleman who works the dictionary to change the meaning of the word decentralisation there and to call decentralisation a process in which you take money in local self-government and assign it to the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75828	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75829	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, unfortunately, everything he based his statement on, Mršić, is incorrect, false. It is incorrect to say that some of the cities and municipalities are being punished by this bill. It's incorrect that there's no simulation done. You have the ability to simulate, go ahead and try and get a real simulation. I'll do it again for the public, because it seems to me that it matters. With this proposal, the municipalities and cities in Croatia will receive more than 700 million kuna. The County will receive 100 million kunas more plus what these same municipalities and cities and counties will get through decentralised functions will get 164 million kuna more. Count those amounts to your colleague. Count those amounts. Therefore, no one is punished, for it is a fair, even distribution in Croatia. It is clear that 95% of municipalities and cities will benefit greatly from not speaking from Osijek of 56 million kuna, Dubrovnik 15, Karlovac 28, Split, all cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. So it's incorrect to punish someone, indeed to correct injustices.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75830	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Željko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75831	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, in a series of incorrect allegations, I'll only correct this last one. I feel like everything else is fixed because we've already talked about it. That it's not fair to take someone and give them to someone. So is it fair to keep the chimney in Sisak and the money in Zagreb? That all those employees in INA, all those employees in HEP, all those employees in the cylinder room, etc., who work not only in Sisak but all that region are gravitating towards those places where they have jobs, their income...... Therefore, it is fair to redistribute. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's extremely fair and don't fool the public about it anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75832	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75833	Thank you very much. You say, colleague Mršić, that it is not fair for some to be taken, so you mention Zagreb. You see, it is not taken here in Zagreb, it is taken by the Zagreb children. In 2007, the children's kindergarten Selčina, children's kindergarten "Sun" in Retkovec, children's kindergarten "Spansko-Oranice", children's kindergarten Lanište, children's kindergarten Kajzerica and children's kindergarten Brezovica was to be opened and built in Zagreb. They won't be able to be built if this law is implemented. These are the money of these children, the children of Zagreb, they are taken from them. In 2006, 33 educational groups were opened in Zagreb. A thousand 500 children were enrolled more in kindergartens than in 2005. Every kindergarten costs 20 million kuna. When these money is taken from Zagreb, the children of Zagreb will not be able to go to kindergarten. They are therefore taken from the disabled City of Zagreb because there is no city in Croatia that has as good a social programme as Zagreb has.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75834	Order!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75835	But...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75836	Order!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75837	But it can't be tolerated, obviously it can't be tolerated that citizens who have chosen another government, not HDZ authorities, and since 97 that their children can go to kindergarten. The Zagrebers want to be punished, they want to punish the Zagreb children, they want to punish the Zagreb disabled. That's this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75838	Replicate response, respected representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75839	Well, I completely agree with you, fellow Stazic. Unfortunately, from a part of our colleagues there is no understanding because they put on, they simply think that Zagreb's being taken to be assigned to them and that it is based on profit tax. Gentlemen, profit tax goes to the state. So, the profit tax goes to the state and therefore, where the smell of what is done in Sisak and where it is achieved profit will not get children in Sisak or children in Zagreb, will not get children in Sisak unless in the Office of Prime Ministers you get some help. But there's the difference and centralised and decentralisation, you know? decentralisation means that you get money so you can decide for yourself, not that you have to kneel in the Prime Minister's office to meet some of your basic needs for what your citizens expect you to do. So this is not decentralisation, this is taking one to give to another. What will be the final result of this Law, that more than half of Croatia's citizens and taxpayers will live in units of local self-government to be taken to give to others. The concept of SDP is that they all have as much as they do now and that some get more. Not like the HDZ concept to take one citizen to give to another citizen. The share of the state budget in public finances in favour of local self-government should be reduced. You're unfortunately increasing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75840	State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance Ante Zigman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75841	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, I had a need to pick up after this debate and say a few words. First of all, about the budget, I'm sorry that the esteemed representative left, related to the 2007 Budget. Therefore, there is, above all, no part of the income tax that the state, or central government, has committed to the units of local and regional and regional self-government that they will have in their 2007 budget. And he doesn't approve here at the Parliament and he doesn't come here to Parliament. This advocate knows very well, he is approved at the local and regional self - government units. As for profit tax and waiting, patient waiting, the honourable representative should bear in mind that income tax will certainly be paid, and the income tax company may have one year’s income tax and may pay it if it has a profit, and the second year does not have to pay it. And in that sense, income tax allows him, therefore, at the level of units of local self-government better liquidity, better income, better cost management. And in that sense certainly more evenly paying their commitments throughout the year. And if the state loses a significant share, it loses. So this is not about, therefore, just that it's about decentralisation in a way that from income tax, therefore, allows for greater income than it is in some way and gives and meets both criteria. Therefore, the central state is also denying part of the revenue, which is certainly the first time recorded in the practice of public finances in Croatia for the time being. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75842	Thank you. Honorable representative of Ivica Clem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75843	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, I am giving as a representative of the Croatian Democratic Community full support to this Law on the financing of units of local self-government and the area. It is precisely because the fundamental point of view of the Croatian Democratic Community's policy is a balanced development of all parts of the Republic of Croatia. Some colleagues spoke among other things about the problems of the City of Zagreb and I am also a representative and as a man aware that the City of Zagreb also has its own problems, that it must finance a lot. And that the City of Zagreb also needs financial resources. But as a man, I ask all of you whether we as representatives in the Croatian Parliament are allowed to talk and we need to talk in a way that Zagreb swallows all the population of the Republic of Croatia. If we create such financial power here in the City of Zagreb as it has today, it is likely that all citizens from both my municipality and the rural areas and the Dalmatian Zagora and Banovina and Slavonia and Baranja and Srijema will come here to Zagreb and will be better off because they will have everything from kindergarten, from basic schooling far better solved than in rural areas, secondary education, higher education, but what dear friends will get in other environments. The Croatian Democratic Community must also take care of environments that, not by their guilt in the war, have survived severe, direct, but also indirect damages. Of these war damages, my municipality, the German Municipality, Vukovar-Srijem County is still recovering and it will take a minimum of 10 years to acquire such conditions and no longer be an area of special state concern. I am not happy that my area of special state care is from which I come and I am not happy that at this very moment we need fiscal help to run certain processes and keep at least that part of the population in the area and my municipalities and the Vukovar-Srijem County and extend how many of us live in those areas today. Without strengthening the fiscal capacity of local self-government units, we will not be able to get far in terms of rural development, and just at the end of next year when we are doing an analysis of the impact of this Law which we sincerely hope to adopt, and it is only at the end of next year that we will be able to do one analysis and say whether this Law needs to be done in order to truly fulfil our obligation, and our obligation for those of us sitting here in the Croatian Parliament is to take care of all the premises of the Republic of Croatia, not only the City of Zagreb, but also in this part of several local self-government units that have bounced far above the level at which unfortunately the vast majority of local self-government units in the Republic of Croatia. I personally expect that this is the beginning of fiscal decentralisation because there is also potential in the state budget, but in redistributions and these redistributions must be done in one fair way and in no case should the functioning of local self-government units be questioned mainly in areas of special state concern, mainly in mountain-mounted areas and mainly in islands in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75844	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic first.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75845	You tell your colleague that this is very good because we should not allow Zagreb to develop rapidly because what will happen then, people will move to Zagreb. You, for the Croatian capital, say it is not good for the metropolis to develop rapidly. Well, I could have expected anything else, but not exactly this explicitly expressed view of the Croatian capital. Well, I hope the citizens of Zagreb heard what you said, so they'll know and appreciate it. This is an obvious HDZ stance towards the Croatian capital, according to the metropolis as you called it. You know what? The citizens of Zagreb will know your intention. Since '97. The year since you failed to vote in Zagreb in the elections, so the late president patented the purchase of mandates as a way to win over the power that HDZ applies to today's patent. In Zagreb you cannot get votes from voters, and I assure you after such an attitude and after such a law... You will not yet, because condemning the Zagrebers, condemning the Zagrebers with such a law that they cannot achieve the level of concern achieved by local self-government for their citizens means contempt for these citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You say HDZ must take care of all areas and all citizens. This is what we saw HDZ taking care of all citizens in Drvenik Velo with 300 kuna ahead of the election. Keep worrying, but don't punish the citizens of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75846	Replicate response, esteemed representative of Ivica Clem.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75847	Mr. President, I will answer this replica with one more question. Is it a shame for the city of Vukovar and the defenders of Vukovar to share the mayor of the City of Zagreb as a charity book for elementary school? Is it a shame that a city in Vukovar at this time, which is a symbol of Croatian suffering and destruction, cannot function? You will now tell me that I am sorry that the City of Zagreb is progressing. No, on the contrary. I am pleased that the City of Zagreb is developing into the regional centre of this part of Europe, but not at the expense of the Germans, or Vukovar, or Škabrnje or any other part.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75848	Another replica, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75849	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I would like to replicate my colleague Clem because he forgot to point out who the losers are, and who are the winners of such decentralisation of funds, and also did not get involved in the moment that the Zagrebers have never seen them before, because more than 560, 598 million of them were mayors in the likes of a drunken billionaire shared all over Croatia for horses, for cows and who knows about such ridiculous manifestations, but did not build kindergartens with the same means spoken of today. And I must say that it is purely from the political activities carried out by Mr Bandic on behalf of the SDP and is preparing for his political mandate as announced by the President of the State's shares of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. The city of Zagreb throughout Croatia creates a metropolis that pollutes, pollutes and poisons the children of Zagreb where they are most. And let's be clear. Get Osijek, get Zadar, get Karlovac, Split, Sisak, Velika Gorica, Pula. Zagreb County as a ring around the City of Zagreb, which is backed by 17 billion from such decentralisation. We get Samobor, Dubrovnik, Sibenik, Vinkovci. A hive, Mr. Thinman, with 11 billion Millions. [[Intruder: Millions.]] Slavonski Brod, Zaprešić, Rijeka, Sisak-Moslavina, Varazdin, Bjelovar and Virovitica. And I think about what we're talking about when we want to represent that the metropolis wants to be destroyed. Control your SDP member so he doesn't spill like a drunk billionaire all over Croatia and will be for kindergartens [[/Intruder: That's right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75850	Replicate response, esteemed representative of Ivica Clem.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75851	Dear Mr. Djakic. I've been head of the German municipality for many years. The municipality, which has ten and a half thousand hectares of forest in its area, has about ten and a half thousand hectares of farmland and unfortunately only six and a half million kunas of municipal budget in 8 settlements. And when you share it with your needs and I don't have to remind you or any of your other colleagues that the German municipality has suffered as much as Vukovar has, then you know what kind of territory my unit of local self-government is in. What condition the entire Vukovar-Srijem County is in. All those we are discussing today and income tax and profit tax due to the centralisation of public enterprises, because of the centralisation of companies owned by the Republic of Croatia, income went towards the City of Zagreb and towards the budget of the City of Zagreb. And of the mineral wealth and of the forest wealth, and especially of that first processing that was made. So we have an oak cutting, but unfortunately the oak was not processed by us, it was processed in the City of Zagreb and the ring of Zagreb. That is why I believe that we must fight for the even development of all parts of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75852	Third replica, the esteemed representative Jelena Pavičić Vukicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75853	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to point out to an esteemed colleague that everyone who makes the budget sets priorities. Priorities are determined by the government, the priorities set by the City of Zagreb, determines any unit of local self-government. The fact that Vukovar from the City of Zagreb receives so-called The charity is the shame of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, not the shame of the City of Zagreb. The question is, what's going to happen to the priorities? This is a fundamental issue today, and as Zagreb's representatives, I must say that I am indescribably sorry that this debate comes down to who will take whom and as if someone in the City of Zagreb had something against the even development of the Republic of Croatia. That's just not true. The development strategy itself, the even development of the Republic of Croatia does not exist at all so that I do not know what we are talking about on the one hand, and on the other hand I am afraid that this HDZ's concern about areas of special concern is in fact only a way to then speak between the other and that the city government, the Zagreb government, is therefore ideologically poisoning the rest of Croatia. These are the thesis that are truly embarrassing. We in Zagreb have nothing against the even development of Croatia. I don't know why this debate started in that tone, but it's just not true. I see this is actually just a conflict between Sanader's government and Zagreb City's headship.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75854	Replicate response, esteemed representative of Ivica Clem.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75855	Your Honor! It can have priorities of the City of Zagreb and should have them and not get into them. And so is my unit of local self-government from which I come from my county and my area has its priorities. And I just see that through a law like this, through these changes to the Law on the financing of units of local self-government, some of these priorities will be able to be resolved much faster and come to what level. At least get close to the standard of the City of Zagreb. We can't reach him, and we're absolutely aware of that, but we need to get close, distinguished MPs. The development strategy that HDZ wants to implement within the Republic of Croatia is not a strategy for the development of the capital, but a strategy for the development of the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia from the island, from southern Dalmatia to western Slavonia and Eastern Srijem, however you will and Baranja. And that is why as a representative from the Croatian Democratic Community, I advocate. For a balanced development not at the expense of the City of Zagreb because the City of Zagreb has the strongest potential in both economic, intellectual and in any other sense. And he can't have that primate taken from him by anyone. But the underestimation is, in this way to treat other areas of the Republic of Croatia mainly with Vukovar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75856	Thank you. And the next replica, honourable representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75857	Well, here's a respected colleague, listening to your debate, and even part of the debates that are here, I remembered 20 years ago there was a Serbian sports commentator who said he missed a football player. I'm afraid the debate that goes towards this bill is in any way linked to decentralisation is simply a failure. This isn't really about decentralisation. decentralisation would mean that funds are being sent down from the central state towards units of local self-government or regional etc. That's just not what we're talking about here. I am afraid that some discussions have confirmed the malignancy of such a proposal that would go for something very dangerous politically extremely harmful, which is the confrontation of the City of Zagreb and the rest of Croatia. It is a dangerous story that can have bad implications and create the impression that there is a rich Zagreb that prevents the development of other parts of Croatia. There is no doubt that what is earned in Sisak must in some way be valued through tax and I have never heard of anyone from Zagreb who would have anything against it. This is about a respected colleague, being taken by Zagreb, being given to the central government to have even more so that it distributes it according to its own criteria and to blur out the story. That's where the great danger lies. So, the state with a profit tax that's bigger, more generous, is growing faster, it takes cakes and throws candy at us to fight, so if we get better, then we'll be for that story. It draws attention from the fundamental problem that Croatia is one of the world's most centralized states the way it was in Europe 50 years ago with... Portugal and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Spain, we're still such a centralized state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75858	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Ivica Clem.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75859	The taxes we have somewhere in the funds mean the central state should be approximately local and regional self-government units paid for in the following year about 290 million kuna. This is also important to emphasise that it is not only, it is not only a redistribution within the units of local and regional self-government made but also a step further, it is going towards decentralisation and in this direction. The government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a strategic framework for development in 2006-2013. You probably got that document on August 4, 2006. In this direction, we want to enable, once again, all units of local self-government not to live because there is no point in local self-government living that units of local self-government have to pay for the administration and the mayor of the municipality. It's not just the City of Zagreb. We have here an example and municipalities of St. Sunday whose former chief of staff is our colleague, Krono Markovinović, here with us. Once again, I will point out, it is necessary to carry out even funding of local self-government units throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia. We can't behave the way one of the main TNT characters in Alan Ford Super Hick behaves to take the poor and give the rich. We must not act like this here because we represent the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia and we should represent it fairly and justly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75860	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75861	Dear Mr. President, Madam Chief State Treasury, colleagues and colleagues! It is precisely this Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government that is one step forward towards a more even development of each part of the Croatian state but one step further into decentralisation. Of course, what I am first of all pleased about this bill is that just those parts of the Republic of Croatia that have not so far had the opportunity to develop on modern principles and I will point out, only for the reasons of modern or outdated understanding of the development of the state is it exactly belongs to the islands because they get more than 40 million from this bill and actually, when they add up to those benefits not to contribute to the alignment fund then it is an important improvement in relation to the current bill. Of course, the other parts of this bill get their right place in equal development and that means economic development and increasing employees, which is related to each other. This proposal does not change the current distribution in income tax in the area of special state care, mountain and mountain areas with already mentioned islands already improving their position. This has already been declared more here precisely a year and the entire public interested in such a step has given the green light. On the contrary, current speakers who wanted to highlight different names or different results and the reach of this bill are quite wrong and did not base it on real data. When all this is calculated, it can be easily achieved that part of the profit tax belonging to the state budget is achieved in the area of municipalities and cities of special state care, mountain-mounted areas. So far, according to special laws, income has been made to municipalities and cities in these areas. Since the proposal for this tax on profit is no longer a common tax and the income from this tax is entirely the revenue of the state budget, it will actually be given to mountainous mountainous areas of income achieved in their area through state budget assistance for the implementation of those laws. In fact, these are exactly the results that justify this amendment to the law. Also, income tax has been distributed to municipalities and cities on the islands so that with an increased share of 52% they get an additional share of the income tax of 21% of the total capital project financing of interest in the development of the island. In the past, it has been difficult to force local self-government units on an island to sit together and conclude what is a priority for the development of the island and this proposal in Article 45(7) says they will conclude an agreement on joint financing of a capital project of interest for the development of the island. In the first instance, this refers to sewerage systems. Furthermore, the construction and arrangement of current and existing ports is a very important step in the development of the island, the retention of inhabitants on these islands and the development of social infrastructure, not only of the one relating to municipal infrastructure. I believe that this will be one step, an initial step to continue to take more and more care of the even development of the entire Croatian state as a single county takes care of the development of each part of it, the city of each of its districts and the municipalities of each of its local committees. Therefore, important steps are also important, so that further financial mechanisms can strengthen exactly what we all care about, raising standards in each segment. Especially in primary school, high school schools where income tax rates are increasing. Then social care to the welfare center, homes for the elderly and the powerless. Health and fire departments through public units. Of course, in this proposal of the law everyone is covered by the City of Zagreb because it increases among other things the share of the City of Zagreb. 67% has been increased by an additional share in income tax and also by a share of positions to help balance for decentralised functions. In particular, it should be said here that all units and local and regional self-government always feel that they should get more because, with more money, they could do more, but the basic desire and intensity is that, according to their own resources, they must also count on help from the side. If these funds are smaller, they are smaller in their budgets because they can't afford to be expected to be given something that is beyond their ability, to make the right use of it, and to gain a better quality of life, to create new jobs, to give them quality health care and to develop education in those parts at all. Therefore, this law should be adopted as soon as possible. And he just came at a time when many units of local, regional self-government are making their own budget and those who are more curious, who are more careful they know that we are also passing this bill so that they can install it in their budgets. It is precisely the desire and intensity to encourage the state administration with such proposals so that we can really see clearer and more penetrating economic development.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75862	Thank you. Replications. Vice-President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75863	Mr. President, dear colleague, of course I support all these beautiful words that you have spoken about decentralisation, an attempt to access the more even development of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the actual implementation of the concept of regional, regional development of Croatia. Unfortunately, however, I must say that this Law makes it impossible. And not only does it make it impossible, I don't actually see it, and that's why I took the line to take down the delusion once. It specifically says in the bill everything. In the context of the proposal, it says very clearly: "The profit tax is no longer a total income but a revenue of the state budget." Therefore, the state profit tax is subtracted and exempt from the total income or in that part which was the income of the units of local and regional self-government and becomes exclusively state. Secondly, it also writes: "It is therefore necessary to propose the insurance of a new source of income based on the distribution of income tax," and writes again "the corporate tax on profits". Therefore, fellow respected nor is it about... Centralisation, neither is regional development, but it is actually about redistributing tax revenues between the state and units of local self-government, with this model of how the proposed tax is to be paid to the City of Zagreb because the City of Zagreb will receive much, much less income, given the redistribution of income tax and income tax exemptions, and rather than what some of the cities and municipalities or regions will get in redistributing this income tax itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I personally think that if we want to, and we should initiate a decentralisation process, the regional development process then we should discuss that income tax belongs entirely to local self-government units and that one part of it should eventually be allocated for development and financing but not more than 10% for the county. And secondly, the profit tax is not centralised as an exclusive income of the state but remains the total income of the state and units of local and regional self-government in that ratio that will allow regional self-government to function. So to separate and simultaneously ensure from that part of the income, tax revenue is provided with specific means of alignment and solidarity between units of local self-government, regionally if it wants to be provided. This way we will get something that is absolutely unacceptable that it will be the opposite of the Constitution of the city of Zagreb because its income will be taken away and at the same time we will get a confrontation between other units of local and regional self-government with the City of Zagreb and the City of Zagreb is just a little less poor than other units of local and regional self-government. We don't have any rich people in our country.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75864	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Krunoslav Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75865	I'm just re-emphasizing this one important step in decentralisation. The data is now defunctating what's been said. Towns and municipalities, instead of 34% so far, account for 52%. The city of Zagreb instead of the current share of 47% belongs to a share of 67%. And the county instead of the current 10% share belongs to a percentage of 15% of the income tax achieved in their area. Moreover, the system of added shares for decentralised functions and balancing aid remains further unchanged and the units taking over functions exercise the right to an additional share of income tax, and the missing funds and means of balancing from the point already mentioned above. Of course, this proposal also reiterates my proposal to increase the additional share of decentralised primary school functions from 2 to 2.2%. Social care from 2% to 2.2%. Social care centre from 0.4% to 0.5 and homes for elderly and powerless from 6.7.6% to 1.7%. Health from 2.5% to 3.2% and fire department, regular activity of public fire departments 7% to 1.3% in income tax. All these are amounts of course that are clear, convincing, logical and I believe that this is the first step that awaits us on the way to the true decentralisation that we would really like to both our options and spend.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75866	Second replica, respected representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75867	So I want to replicate my colleague because we both come from local and regional self-government units. Now we've heard him read the numbers, percentages if so, Mr. Peronja. And I'll read the kunas. This is not decentralisation in any way even legal. But it's not even dropping money from the state register into the local cash register. Based on the projections of the budget we also received on the table in 2007 the state will collect 600 million more on the basis of new taxes read by my colleague. Regional and local self-government units 603 million less. In 2008, this goes up to 655 million more for the state, 655 less for local self-government and regional government. And in 2009, it's 724 million kuna. In all, in just three years, how many projections have been sent to us by Minister Schuker, the state is killing more according to the new taxes that we have just heard a billion kunas, and local and regional self-governments are one billion kunas. Therefore, the funds are withdrawn and returned to the budget. If you can explain it to me as decentralisation then together we'll open a study of what decentralisation is. Because it can't, it's simple to withdraw money from regional and local self-government and it's not true that Zagreb is taken and given to other units by the state budget. There is no need to argue Zagreb with the others. So let's try to figure out these are inevitable figures. Nearly two billion more raises the state budget, and on the burden of the units. You can't call that decentralisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75868	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Krono Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75869	I will only repeat what I have stated in my opening part that with this approach, with this proposal to amend and supplement the law what is most important and what is for prominent islands gets more than they have received so far. Also, our municipalities and cities in the area of special state care and mountainous areas also get more and more important I believe that this will not be stopped, but that it will be steps further to enable appropriate economic development to continue to distribute more evenly the money achieved in certain areas, that in these areas they need to return as much as possible. But those poorer ones too need to get the money even though they have not achieved it for reasons of even development. I'll do it again for the City of Zagreb. I have only pointed out that the City of Zagreb, compared with so far, is always the most important thing that the City of Zagreb, instead of the current share of 47%, will belong to a proportion of 67% and that is the most important thing I would like to say and, in fact, want to confirm this opportunity that, without the development of the capital, there is no development of the rest of the Croatian state, and equality and justice must be manifested in every division.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75870	Dear representative Jelena Pavicic Vukicevic. Next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75871	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This is where we recapitalised the fact that Zagreb has lost something, but we cannot continue to lead this debate in a way that Zagreb is not for the smooth development of the Republic of Croatia, because Zagreb supports the even development of the Republic of Croatia. But certain things that happen today in both Croatian society and today in the Croatian Parliament point to something else. I think we should call things a real name. We don't trust the municipal commissioners, the mayors, the mayors to set priorities for themselves. I am particularly talking about areas of special state concern, mountain-mounted areas and islands. Because we don't give money to them. Unfortunately, we're centralizing money. We're giving it to the central cash register, so the central government, the central state, is making money for projects that they themselves think are worth alimony to local self-government units. That's the problem. If the State is indeed in favour of decentralisation, then why does this income tax and profit asset not really give those units local self-government in areas of special state concern. Don't you trust the people who won the election of power? So, municipal chiefs, mayors and mayors. Why don't you trust them? There are chieftains there, there are city councils and municipal councils. Why don't you give people confidence to tell themselves what their priorities are?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75872	On the contrary. Namely, the proposals of municipalities, cities and counties are the most important in the schedule of priorities and always these municipalities, cities and counties say how much of their own resources they must enter and can enter these development projects and then ask not only for help from the state budget but also from all others who are in the mood to invest in these money and invest. So it's just the wrong thing to do to take something away. In fact, there is only a more even approach here for a more balanced development of the entire Croatian state and, in particular, one justice in the distribution. It always took someone who had more to give to someone who had a little more to be happy and happy who gave. In fact, I will only repeat once again the function of the island council that all projects that start from the island, from municipalities and cities on the islands are passing through the island council and only on the basis of such verification can they also be run for State budget funds. It is therefore reaffirmed that this is the only approach that is modern and I believe that this is the first step in a modern decentralisation that would be appropriate for our economic moment and for the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75873	Thank you. Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75874	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, since it's about exact indicators, then we should speak explicitly. Let's just say we rewrite this law on the 30th of this year. I'm talking about the IRS data as much as... arrival. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, one real thing we've politicized. The paid income tax of 30.10 is 8 billion and 800 million. A total of 24.6% of states are rerouting towards local self-government units or that's about two billion zirca... That's an exact indicator. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's charged. That's the most important thing. Now we can say whatever we want in politics. 8 billion and 800 Croatian citizens are paying taxes on profits. And it's arranged according to the law as to who it belongs to. Profit tax paid, so entrepreneurs, all those who are taxpayers on profits from 1st to 10th, by the end of 10th of 2006 6 billion 475 million. The participation of local self-government units in income tax is 10 over 20.30%. 305 out of 6 billion and 400 is, say, a billion 920, a billion and 930. The difference between 2 billion and 200 billion and 920 is 300 million. So much so that this law is now in force for the first 10 months to go to the units of local self-government. And we can talk here one way or the other, and we can give these and those kind of indicators, say this isn't like this, that it's not like that. Is the profit tax defined this way to pay according to the place of residence just that some companies that are in one place and practically that unit of local self-government picks up all this is a matter that can be discussed. However, these are two exact indicators, so collected revenues for the first 10 months. And it can be politicized as much as you want, but you can't knock them down. You can't knock down what Croatian citizens paid for, you can't knock down what paid for entrepreneurship, companies. And that's the 300 million difference. Therefore, if at this point this law were to apply in the state budget with that basis, it would have been 300 million kuna less. The second thing, we all forget about the fact that in some of the previous months, many of the biggest opponents of today's bill were great advocates of this, evener distribution of taxes. It's all been suggested by the government. In our old ways, that's not good. And then you don't even admit the argument. Someone tell me another argument about how much it's charged for the first 10 months, say where it's from if it's not an exact indicator from the tax administration. I'm talking about areas of special state concern. If the State has passed the Law on the implementation of the state budget, but since 1.1.2004, since this government was in power, not before, since 2003, the areas of special state care have been blocked in the 6th, 7th and 8th months and then no one has cried over those mayors, mayors and mayors. 2003. No one cried over those people in the summer. And I'm going to document to you now how many of these people have been blocked because of their jury's return to income tax. In 2004, therefore, in the first year of the term of office of this Government, the Law on the Implementation of the Budget has defined that the State is entitled to give up its full share of income tax and profit to units in the field of special state care. From that base directly their giro account goes 500 and more, 520 million kunas left this year. Instead of returning from their giro accounts, the budget returns the income tax on the basis of the tax returns submitted. This was made out of the state budget and that is an additional 450 million kuna. So in such a way, we rerouted a billion kuna directly to local self-government units in the area of special state care. Because on the one hand, they got the money directly to the jury account, without the state budget. These coins did not come into the state budget but were rerouted to local self-government units in the case of a summary and passing account... And also at the time when companies from these areas and citizens from that area submitted a request for return or income tax or income tax has been withdrawn from the state treasury, therefore from the state budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's a billion kuna. And they'll say again that it's not true, but it's true. Decentralised funds. Well, the former government has proposed a decentralisation program. The Compensation Fund is designed to cover insufficient resources for decentralised functions of less fiscal capacity units. And now it remains the same. Nothing changes there, but just because this government suggests it's not a good solution. And when that law was proposed, it was a good solution. So I don't see what the difference between these 21% is now that you've proposed them for something and today when these 21% are proposed to remain with the same intention to cover the base of minimum standards in health, primary and secondary education to cover shortcomings due to reduced fiscal capacity. So while I'm in power, that's okay, that's great, that's genius, that's fantastic, and when you're in power, that's not good. Because that's, say, an item that doesn't change, which I remained completely identical originally when the law was passed. But today she's not good, yesterday's good. We don't even trust any of the indicators of how much taxes have been charged in the first 10 months. Even that's not a good indicator because it doesn't fit the script we wrote to say. Today I say to my colleague, Koprivnica, based on what's been charged for the first 10 months, she gets 11 million kunas extra to me it's not the same. Okay, it's not the same. But I can't present any other data except those collected in the services. I can't present other data, other indicators. And when we talk about crossing or decentralisation, that you gentlemen don't like that 300 million from the state budget has been rerouted to local self-government units without letting go of new obligations. It's fiscal decentralisation, for that 300 million. For that 300 million. And now we can talk like this. It's only for us when it's politically appropriate for someone to make a decision on a non-competition charge beyond the decision of those laws that we've made just because it's political for us, that's okay. And that's the kind of thing we have. But, my God, what is it?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75875	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75876	To correct. It is not decentralisation and will not be passed on to 300 million units of local self-government. It's an incorrect piece of information. The law applies 1.1.2007. We also have exact figures from the Ministry of Finance that we received as projections of the state budget in 2007, 2008, 2009. In 2007, local self-government units will be shorter by 603 million. 2008 655 million. 2009 724 million. In total, in three years, the projections sent by Minister Schuker to the local self-government council are poorer by 2 billion kuna. And the state budget is richer. That's the proposal of this law. So, Mr. Schooker, the exact data is your data on the budget, the exact data is the figures, the data, the percentages in the law. Please apply them for a moment when they are applied. 2 billion less is taking, not giving, not decentralisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75877	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Jelena Pavićiæ Vukičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75878	Thank you very much. Here's really very short. We can't talk about the funds coming down. We can't say they're redeploying. You have denied yourself because, in the light of this law, you say it is a redistribution to the objective of even development, that it is also a compensation of the lost total income tax by increasing income tax in favour of the units of local self-government. So it's about redistribution and compensation, not descent, and that's the basis of today's debate here and at all our disagreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75879	Thank you. The word has a esteemed representative, Nikola Sopčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75880	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I support the amendments to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government, as under this proposal, common taxes remain income tax and real estate tax at a certain budget. I believe that this is far more just distribution than so far where profit tax is shared as well as common tax, and it is divided according to company registration and not according to where the profits themselves are achieved. This is how the distribution of the income tax was unfair because most major companies were registered in the City of Zagreb and the profits achieved in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia. Not only have large companies moved their headquarters to the City of Zagreb, we have a number of smaller companies, local companies based in the City of Zagreb. Here is an example from the area from which I come, the Ozalj area, 10 companies are registered in the City of Zagreb, profits are paid to the City of Zagreb, and total business, production and everything else is done on the ground, localo. On my direct inquiry to the owners of the company why it is so answered that it is easier for them, because in the mass of companies they see less inspections and for this reason it suits them better, and Zagreb makes far more income from that base than profit tax. We all swear by our own statements on the even development of Croatia, and now that we have a bill that goes according to it, we say that it is an unfair distribution. At this point in Croatia, we have a situation where the mayor of Zagreb behaves as a good Emerald, buys a fire truck or a city, presents a garbage truck, buys books, it's all nice, it's all good and positive, but I think it'll be far better when that municipality or the city itself can carry out obligations to its residents and buy the necessary funds for normal functioning. Maybe it's good that some city or mayor can afford a free commercial in a 15 thousand-pound ballot if his citizens love and want it, but it's their right and his, but it's also not good to have municipalities that are not able to carry out their basic obligations. And it is not true that all countries share income from profit taxes at three basics or two, between state and local levels. We have cases here as neighbouring Slovenia where income tax is a state budget. As for centralised, decentralisation, I am convinced that this is a good proposal and a good step, but I agree with all colleagues who say that this should continue and should continue to think and work on increasing the fiscal capacity of local self-government units with relatively low income. They have an ageing population, a significant number of inhabitants who belong to the social category, and many of them are not in the category of municipalities and cities of special state care or mountain-mounted areas. So we have a number of municipalities, border municipalities according to the Republic of Slovenia whose residents work in the neighbouring country, there are tax obligations and the home municipality has practically no budgetary income from them and therefore all these municipalities have relatively low income and I believe that this should be done in further decentralisation. I believe that this bill is far more just than it is in force and therefore I support its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75881	Thank you. Dear Representative Vladimir Stengl.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75882	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with his associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. This proposal for a law aims to propose an equal and harmonised distribution of taxes in all areas of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the general tax and constitutional principle of the obligation of equality in taxation and financing, payment of public expenditure in accordance with the tax and tax power of tax entities. This literally stands in the light of this bill in amendments to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional, therefore regional self-government and there is almost nothing to be added. However, the practice has shown that so far a solution in the law, and the distribution of income tax and income tax would introduce new solutions, new relations in the distribution of income tax and income tax. And right away, it is more than clear that some units of local or regional self-government may not be satisfied with this distribution, so precisely because the applicable law directs funds towards some environments that have to be recognised, far better passed, this amendment is proposed. I would not, in particular, comment on certain figures, percentage relations in the proposed solutions, because as indicated, this was the result of an analysis of the achievement and distribution of common taxes, and, in particular, the income tax and income tax over a period of several years. Over several years, but throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia. That is why these and such solutions are proposed. However, I would especially like to set one detail aside and especially welcome it. It is the units of local and regional self-government that have the status of the area of special state care and the status of the mountain-mountan area as well as the island municipalities and cities. I am well aware of the positive effects of these and these solutions, I am now primarily thinking about areas of special state concern and I remember well what it was like before these solutions, or maybe it's better to forget it. So it is certainly more than good that these relations in the distribution are being retained in this bill as well. I think all respected colleagues who come from these areas can testify. And, of course, in this context, there must be another exceptional benefit in the area of special state care, which is the return of income tax after the annual application by which the Government of the Republic of Croatia returns more taxes paid to income taxpayers in areas of special state care and mountainous areas in full. How much help this is to these local units, so I believe regional self-government, too, I think we can confirm many. But there must be something else. When it comes to taxes on both profit and income, it is a share of the grey or gray economies and all the reserves that exist in the case of solving the problem precisely that gray economy. The employers are moving in a variety of ways, and the damage is the most suffered by the tax-restricted person, and that's how it spins, and the reserves are there. And not just me. The reason for the adoption of this Act under an emergency procedure is to enable units of local and regional self-government to adopt the 2007 Budget by applying this proposed allocation and avoiding disturbances in their financing. It justifies the adoption of this Act by an urgent procedure, which I support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75883	Thank you. Dear Representative, Vice-President of the House, Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75884	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Of course, there is an opportunity to support this Law and vote for it. This was taken care of by the Club of Representatives of the SDP and prepared a proposal for an amendment which, if adopted, could also be discussed as an attempt and a small step towards further regional development and decentralisation of the Republic of Croatia, but also a fairer distribution of tax revenues between the state and the unit of local and regional self-government. Without that amendment, it's hard enough to do that. In fact, it should be reminded of some of the things written in the Constitution itself. This Regulation shall enter into The constitution is clearly said, units of local and regional (regional) self-government have the right to their own incomes which are freely available in the performance of the business in their own district. The revenues of units of local and regional (regional) self-government must be proportionate to their powers under the provided Constitution and law. The state is obliged to assist units, financially weaker units of local self-government in accordance with the law. You see, respected colleagues and colleagues. In the very reasoning of the law, and the fact is, it is said that the tax on profit as a common tax is exempt and becomes the income of the state. It is also said that the compensation of that income, that part of the income that once was the income of the units of local and regional self-government, is actually taking place in a way that would result in an additional distribution of income tax, i.e. by lowering income tax on units of local self-government, but would be paid by the City of Zagreb. Exclusion of these funds to the City of Zagreb as income at the same time does not reduce the jobs and tasks that the City of Zagreb must carry out in accordance with the Constitution and the law in relation to citizens and legal persons in the City of Zagreb. Secondly, this causes very serious connotations and conflicts, given that we think decentralisation should be made to redistribute funds between the capital and other units of local and regional self-government, then we are just giving arguments to those who represent and autonomous politics that the City of Zagreb is guilty of their position. That's not true. The Republic of Croatia must lead regional policy, not the City of Zagreb, and in this respect we must finally say it clearly and unequivocally. Third, it clearly shows when a budget projection is compared to the revenues of the local self-government unit from the state's incomes only fall on that basis. Under that tax income, it's somewhere in the first year, in 2007, over 600 million kuna, getting units of local and regional self-government less than the state gets more. And at the same time, it should be recalled that over nine billion kunas next year the state increases the budget and needs to do, definitely, let's look at the state's budget increase to start lowering resources to units of local and regional self-government otherwise. In terms of revenues belonging to local and regional self-government units in relation to the state, it will actually increase steadily and be unfavourable for local and regional self-government units compared to the state. Therefore, decentralisation will not occur but will increase centralisation within the system compared to local and regional units, respectively, towards the state. The second thing that matters here is also, in this context as the fifth mention. It is also a fact that we must make sure that some of the benefits that we want to make to certain units of local self-government or certain parts of the Republic of Croatia as regional units, regardless of whether it will be our counties in a formal sense or will be a natural and historical region in the real sense. It must not happen at the expense of other units of local and regional self-government, but we must actually begin not only to bring down business from the state but also the sources of income that the state takes over. It cannot happen that by amending the Law on the financing of units of local self-government, in fact, by looking globally, regardless of what some cities and some municipalities will do better in nominal terms, but in reality you will get less total funds than the state of this title will. And in that respect, the state, I must say, is correct. I don't understand my colleagues when they're discussing it because the state says in its explanation at point 2, Roman II, in the assessment of the situation and the basis of the issues that need to be arranged, in the last two paragraphs very clearly. The profit tax is no longer a common tax but a revenue from the state budget. It is therefore necessary to propose the provision of new sources of income which are proposed through the additional distribution of income tax based on an income analysis. Next, the compensation of the income tax through an increase in the share of units and income tax is proposed according to the effects. But what should also be seen from projections is that income tax logically, due to a slower rate of employment growth, unfortunately, actually grows slower than profit tax increases compared to what our economic operators do. And in this respect, this difference will be growing from year to year, bigger and bigger. In favour of the state, and to the detriment of local self-government and regional self-government units. And that is why I fully support the SDP proposal that suggests that income tax, which we have always advocated, belongs entirely to local and regional self-government units. And that one part of that part is ensured naturally as income of cities and municipalities, the other part as county and the third part as income for decentralised functions to be reduced to that part. And secondly, that still on our occasion if we want to open up a minimum of funding through decentralisation of tax revenues that will also enable decentralisation, and the possibility of the State of these, through this means of regional development, that it still has to remain a profit tax as part of the total income. As part of a common tax on regional self-government and our cities. In this regard, we believe that we should ensure that this part of the income... profit tax belongs to the state about 80 percent, and one 20% to stay with our counties because we need to know that some of our counties when it comes to income, income tax will be difficult to achieve anything in relation to the situation they are actually in relation to municipalities and cities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And secondly, from that remaining part of the tax that belongs to the title of the County profit tax, the SDP club proposes to be at least 15% for the actual functions of decentralisation, i.e. for the alignment that are related to the areas of our units of local and regional self-government, which are in a difficult situation for various reasons, for reasons of war destruction and war crimes, non-population issues, issues I do not know about the non-use of natural, economic and other resources, etc., etc. Therefore, in this context, we believe that this would be the first step towards decentralisation and regional development, and this proposal for a law if it did not pass, unfortunately that part cannot be achieved, unfortunately that part cannot be achieved. He's actually going to be just an internal redistribution and we're afraid he's going to open up a part that's not gonna be good. We have so far had peripheral units of local and regional self-government compared to the metropolis in constant tension towards the metropolis, and now we will actually have constant pressure and metropolis towards peripheral units of local and regional self-government or even better to the central state than they will consider that from them the extremely part of the income is redistributed to local self-government units. Some cities I repeat will get something more, but actually it won't be anywhere near those assets that will total all total profits compared to the increase in revenues that the state will actually achieve in these projections in its four years. This is explicitly coming from the draft budget that we received on the bench, which we have analysed and in this respect, the situation is what it is. I have something else to add here. None of us are concerned about the proposal for a law on the implementation of the state budget which remains to a significant extent a business function and the entrepreneurial function of our units of local and regional self-government keeps limited and limited and in this context it is also necessary to consider the issue not only of financial resources... tax revenue but assets located in the area of units of local and regional self-government which will not be able to function regional and local growth and development. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think that this segment will also have to deal with the burden of borrowing and public debt must not fall on municipalities and cities that only have valid instruments of payment and debt repayment, if they are in debt that is their property, and unfortunately on that segment we continue to limit these units of local and regional self-government both from the aspect of the total revenues generated by the units of local and regional self-government compared to the budget revenues and tax revenues of us to 2%. Now listen if this falls for the next 600 million in the next year then actually the possibility of withdrawing the entrepreneurial and development functions of local and regional self-government units is even less than it was in the last year... And in the last year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For all of these reasons, I think it would be really good for our government colleagues to take our amendment or on the basis of our amendment to prepare some other possible variant and, in fact, together with this bill, to make projections and to see how things stand in relation to the revenues that will be made above the level of state, to contribute to the level of all units of local and regional self-government and, in particular, to the aspect of the redistribution of income in the Republic of Croatia between the City of Zagreb and other units if such a bill would remain business and projects already accepted by the City of Zagreb and which, therefore, with the Constitution and the law, would have to be completed. I think it could be one solution that could lead to a way out. Otherwise, if you leave it like this, it'll be to the detriment of all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75885	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative, Ivan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75886	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'll be very brief because I think everything is already said, and I can see that the interest in this topic of life is very small. In my thinking, I will return a little bit back for five, six years, I was mayor of a small town, and then the association of mayors, mayors and mayors was as one association until the minister was divorced politically, and the ministry was one, was Minister Ivanisevic. We had a seminar in Crikvenica and one of the questions about the polling list was anything you as mayors, mayors and mayors in local self-government units expect from the then government in the coming period? 95% of respondents, regardless of the political option, have responded that they want a direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors and decentralisation of fiscal policy in exactly one way or another. Of that all that happened was that Minister Ivanisevic was removed after a few months. Of course, in the decentralisation of fiscal policy there were possible other moves, but we also need as people who come from the local self-government unit to know that the Croatian state is still a young country, that it resuscitates the consequences of the Homeland War and that we can't deprive the Treasury of someone, that we can't if we have 100 people give 50 just so we don't take those 50 away. And it is well said here that the government and the minister do not deny that it is a redistribution within the general state, but it is also a fact that we cannot escape from the City of Zagreb to lose the circus 700, 800 million kuna and believe it is not a demagogy that I am truly happy as a Croat that my capital progresses and as a dinosaur that something is being built in Zagreb, but I am also happy when something is being done and built both in Lovinac and in Slavonia and in Baranja and in Vukovar and Dalmatia, and this is what the Constitution that we have so warmly brought here, not us but our predecessors in the Croatian Parliament guarantees even development of Croatia. How it will be if we do not implement this fiscal decentralisation and it is certainly a questionable fact that cities receive 700 million kunas, that counties receive 100 million kunas, and that the central state also loses a circus of about 90 million kunas, and that they are also helping areas of special state interest increased by 278 million kuna. What is especially happy is that it is so good that the additional share of income tax is increased for decentralised functions, so the fire department gets 24 million kunas, health care 66 million kunas, social care 36 million kunas, secondary schooling 19 million kunas, primary schooling 19 million kunas. I speak deliberately in millions and not in percentages because I see that was not well accepted. Certainly by comparing and saying that there will be no kindergarten in Zagreb and that the money is taken and that it is not good for those children but it is also not good for the child in Lica, Gorski Kotar, in the elementary school that is moving, in a place that had 5 thousand inhabitants and now has 300, the body culture is designed to pass under chairs and benches. At the same time, some have air-conditioned sports halls, which is certainly the standard to be achieved in these units of local self-government. Of course, a hundred, two hundred, three hundred thousand kunas in such small municipalities mean a lot, and believe that they will fall to fertile soil. Total separations if we look for decentralised functions compared to 2003, 2007 are higher by 753 million kuna and that says enough how this country, this government thinks of the even development of units of local self-government. I certainly remain with the fact that it can always be better, more evenly and that this government will do so in the coming period with our help. I'm surprised, knowing a good part of the MPs as mayors, mayors, and even as members of some committees, we've all advocated decentralisation. Now what Minister Schuker says when it's done, then we're absolutely against it just because one or more political options suggest it. I think it's also visible when you look at and analyze incomes in local self-government units who lose, who gets, that the government was absolutely not driven by politics but exclusively by fiscal policy and even development. Because of all this, I absolutely support this proposal, and I will surely support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75887	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75888	I'll repeat as long as I'm willing, aren't we the agents? If the Ministry of Finance wanted exact data, they'd give us a simulation. Simulation that this law has been applicable since 01.01.2007 and that it must then apply to the figures sent by the same ministry to the Croatian Parliament and these are projections of revenue in 2007, 2008. And then they would tell him that the Croatian state takes nearly 2 billion more into the budget according to the new model than the old model. A billion to 982. I'm rounding up to two billion. You'll allow if the state budget takes units of local self-government, you can't even call it decentralisation because it's taking funds to local self-government units. Take one billion 982, according to the Ministry of Finance projections. Finance that we can't find in the budget. The exact number, exact up to... Well, it's not my fault he's giving you someone else's calculations, we have our own. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Instead, in this law that's not so simple, we have such exact data. Therefore, the biggest crime is that we strengthen the state, weaken local self-government, and then, at the same time, we have redistributed to satisfy some of them. But basically everyone at a lower level. In the next three years, under this law two billion kunas will have less.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75889	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75890	Well, I absolutely disagree with you, Mr. Linic. From the data that I have and which I have obtained but I believe that you wanted to get them or that the results were a little different so that you would certainly get them. Because I remember, here I am coming back again in 2004 and coming to some committees as my SDP colleague's inexperienced representative had all the data, all the amendments written down, obtained by analysis from the ministries where they were headed before or were dominant, State Secretary or something like that. So I don't believe that you didn't want to get the exact information so you wouldn't come here safely. Of course I don't agree with you that local self-government units are losing. Local self-government units don't lose. I simply can't understand if the state budget was increased in the following year by 8 billion kunas from 2003 to 2007 by 28 billion kunas not getting social benefits, not getting health care by you, not getting an economy, not getting a sport, so I don't know where that 28 billion is and who gets it. I think the math here is clear, and so is your wishes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75891	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75892	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, maybe just a few words about what we've been talking about today. But I have to do it again. Here, since '93. I hear all the time why the pollution in our house and the money somewhere else? That's what we talked about. I said the same thing. And what we found in the town hall of St. Sunday was a dozen self-boring craftsmen who clearly received a profit tax to the company headquarters and all the money went to Samobor. We fought very hard to get into some other relationship. But I wasn't lonely. It was from all parties, commissioners, mayors. Except for those who normally have and drive in their places, the headquarters of a company somewhere else because finally the company is convenient to have in town. Then business partners come easily. Everything can be a lot easier then, and that's how companies behave. I have to admit, we've adapted, and we've done everything we can to get the companies to us. It worked, and it doesn't matter. And now we must be losing here. But why don't you admit that this is still a big step in the direction and decentralisation? We're talking about not decentralisation. What do you think is decentralisation? decentralisation is when they take over some of the government's state-funded functions. So when this decentralisation is so delicious, why did only 30 cities take over? So we know we have no idea how many about 120, 130 cities. We also have rich municipalities. Why doesn't anyone want health care? Why won't anyone take any of what they can take? Because decentralisation costs money, it costs a lot. I have to admit, it's a lot easier for me not to know about our schooling funded by the county, health care should also be taken care of by the county, about some states, and we'll just manage far simply and what we want to raise standards for each other. I'm a little bothered by that story. What's bothering me? Says Zagreb loses. But Zagreb does not lose something worth it because it loses exactly what it was meant to belong to someone else. All I'm saying is that Zagreb has been unfairly getting what was supposed to belong to someone else so far. I'll do it one more time. The Sisak refinery, the smell in all of Sisak, wins the City of Zagreb. There are countless examples like that. So I actually think this right here is going to help a lot of people. And it would be far better if it could be calculated if let's tax on profit now in a certain percentage, I don't know that part of the company is worth that much, let's keep it to ourselves because that part is here and that part goes on there. But we said it ourselves that it's impossible, it's almost impossible to calculate because we know that there are spills of whatever you want in our companies, and in an hour it would turn out different again, and it would certainly make it very complicated. But I can't accept it, here's my colleagues... That's why kindergartens in Zagreb aren't made. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, we used to do kindergartens when it was the hardest time, when we really didn't have any money. And we took out loans, and we were miserable, but we made two kindergartens, too, because we thought it was a priority. Thus, kindergartens are a matter of priority. If Zagreb really needs much, here we all rely on Zagreb, we all come to Zagreb, it's absolutely true. And that you'd like it to look nice and work well, and that's true. But people, let's see how the rest of Croatia lives. And yet again, it is not a waste of funds because these money should never have come to Zagreb. I'm looking at a little amendment, you're talking a lot easier, my colleague says watch when these amendments are discussed where the income tax of the City of Zagreb belongs 100%. It's a very good-looking amendment. It would be even more convenient if we added more for some decentralised functions so that if it got I don't know and 120% not only of the city of Zagreb but other cities, it would be really good. We're talking about the state again. The state takes, the state takes this. I'm not sure the state's taking that much but the state's got a stable income that's true. The state does have stable incomes. And what I said on the board, I'll do it again now. I also ask the State, or the Ministry, to make sure that income tax is of quality. In other words, the state does everything to keep income from being paid in two ways that unfortunately we have a lot of cases because the state now may have less interest in such a tax and then thinks let us play with it all together. So that's the commitment of the state was and the obligation should remain here. I think it's worth a lot of talking around here. We losers are going to be so happy to say they're going to get the ones they need, I'm the first to do it, so I believe that we won't fail because of it, and many will be very welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75893	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75894	I need to replicate to my colleague who was reading the SDP amendment. In our amendment, Zagreb is no different from the other units of local and regional self-government, because if you read it better we propose 100% income tax to cities and counties as well and that is the city of Zagreb and the city and the county. And if you had a little look at it, you would see that the City of Zagreb has the same status and not 120%, the exact same. We don't single him out. And we've suggested a slightly better distribution of income tax. We suggested that the profit tax belonged to the county, that the reduction of that exact difference is pollution somewhere and there are profits, that it be reduced and not given everything to the state. And what I repeat to you, I don't know which times. Gentlemen, the tragedy of this law is that some units of local self-government are being redistributed a little more money, but in total, the country is taking over the next three years in all units of local self-government 2 billion kuna. It is not possible to conduct policies towards local self-government units in this way. To get units of local self-government, which are less poor, on their own side, then they all take 2 billion. Well, it's a tragedy. It's a tragedy, it's the opposite of the general principles of decentralisation. decentralisation means more income to release to local self-government units. Minister Shuker suggested that he take 2 billion over the next three years, take 2 billion. And in order to cloud the take, then we've made redistribution to say we care for regional development. These are irresponsible political messages.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75895	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75896	Well, I'm sure since Mr. Linic repeats it three times, after ten times he'll start to believe it himself, I guarantee. Because nobody else but you I don't think believes that. But to deceive the public, I think that's the most important thing right now. My colleague Linic, don't be angry, I know that the tax on profit from EuroPetrol will now go to the state and not the city of Rijeka even though you took a lot of land to get EuroPetrol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75897	Thank you. Replica. ... Well, I didn't hear that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75898	The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75899	I didn't hear that. I didn't hear the word steal. ... Replica esteemed representative Jelena Pavicic-Vukičević. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75900	Thank you very much. Well, here we go, taking over. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75901	I agree, I really didn't hear a word from a thief or a thief or anything. I didn't hear that. And let me, if I had heard that word, I would have really given Markovanovic a warning. I really didn't hear that. Here you go, replica!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75902	Well, here's a really short one. Speaking of delusions, it is more of a hoax then this law that claims to be decentralisation than it would be that, in terms of these replicas, correcting incorrect allegations, we are trying to deceive the Croatian public, especially as this same Croatian public, all of our voters, our citizens in this city, and if they are not your fellow citizens and then they are hosts today, yet they resent the way the city of Zagreb, the city budget and everything that is needed today in the city of Zagreb. Because you see the children were in Zagreb before 2000, so it wasn't built. That's, that's the problem. There were children who were not built, so neither kindergarten nor elementary school were built. All that's left is debts. All that's left is obligations. We have a whole series of schools that unfortunately have to move out of their buildings without the state trying in any way to solve their housing issue. Equally, the city of Zagreb opened a new 33 kindergarten groups only last year. At that pace, he planned to continue in 2007. Today, we still have 1,500 children in the city of Zagreb who are not enrolled. who didn't get their place in kindergarten, but I'm afraid the second year they're looking for the same place that the address they're going to have to address won't be city, city chiefship and city education.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75903	Thank you. The answer to the replica Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75904	It's me again. Thank you. So I have to mention kindergarten again. You know, we're talking about kindergarten. I believe Zagreb needs a lot. I'll tell you. I even though I have the right to free transportation as an agent every time I buy a tramway ticket to, I don't know ZET maybe get more or better. It is known that Zagreb gets free water from the Strmec station, almost supplies the entire western part and I am one of the signatories of the agreement and I am glad that it is so. Zagreb needs it. We want, Zagreb... But this isn't the money we're talking about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That money really belongs to someone else. It belongs where those who, unfortunately, he won't go everywhere. In this way he will not go anywhere where he should have come but in some ways a series of cities will come into the possibility of decentralisation. If now some cities like we heard, towns come, smaller cities of 10, 20 million kuna, and maybe they'll really take over the schooling? Maybe they'll really take over the health care? And so far, they haven't had a chance. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75905	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75906	Thank you very much. You see, these insults that we just heard that our colleague, Markovanovic, sent to our colleague Linic, speak to me about two things. One less important, it's a civilizational level of a single representative, and another more important about the inability to justify the disputed figures is resorted to insults. And there's no point in lying to each other. counterpart Linic made it clear: The projections not of Linic, not of SDP but of Minister Suker, the figures of Minister Suker say that in 2007 the unit of local self-government will receive 603m 336 thousand kuna less. That in 2008, local self-government units will receive 655 million kunas less, the state more. That in 2009, units of local self-government will receive 724 million and 79 thousand kuna less, the state more. In three years, the state will get more than a billion 982 million and 950 thousand kuna for that same amount for a billion 982 million and 950 thousand kuna units of local self-government will get less. These are the figures that come from Shucker's analysis. From what the minister offered. When these figures cannot be justifiedly disproved, when there is nothing to say about it, then he is offended. All right. You can insult as much as you want to your colleague Markovanovic or any of your other colleagues, but you will not disprove the numbers with insults, you will not. Because you're careful the facts don't need to be defended. They have this particular advantage of defending themselves. They don't need a lawyer. Because of all this, it's not a problem that the government is proposing some kind of law. The government has the right to propose any law they want. The problem is she's misreading the law, misrepresenting it. It presents it as decentralisation and assistance to local self-government units and actually means exactly the opposite. Centralization and detachment of local self-government units. Because if someone is going to get less than they do today, then I guess God doesn't help them, so that's not hard to understand. Of course, there is no representative here who is not for the even development of all parts of Croatia. Of course, I believe that there is no representative here who is not for decentralisation and fiscal decentralisation of Croatia, but, gentlemen, my dear, it is not decentralisation to take one unit of local self-government and to someone else. It's not decentralisation. It can be called redistribution, it can be called I don't know what, but it can't be called decentralisation. The decentralisation is when state funds are sent down from the central level to the level of units of local self-government. So if the government needs money, if Minister Shucker isn't enough in the budget, then he would normally want more. Well, there's no finance minister who wouldn't want more in his budget. But then you have to say, I don't have enough in my budget, I'm going to take units of local self-government. Because it's the right of the government to propose such laws. The only thing he's got is that he's right, but it's not nice, he's offering the laws he's actually doing it to, and that's different. It's like we don't know how to read numbers or how they won't be read by mayors and mayors. Or as if they would not be able to read them by economic experts and analyze them. And in the end, it's like they won't know how to do that to citizens. So I'm really wondering why he's lying? So say it like that, we need the money, we'll take it there. And it's a good thing. Zagreb, which you once beat as the capital of all Croats, as the metropolis of Croatia, is now being taken from it. I already said in one replica, you do not take Zagreb, you take Zagreb, you take Zagreb children. Primary school, kindergarten, Selčina, Sun in Retkovec, Spain, Oranice, Lanište, Kajzerica and Brezovica should all be done in 2007. It would be. Because in 2006, 33 such educational units were made. And it would be if you didn't take their money. Because not to the City of Zagreb and Bandic, you will take the money from these children, and you must understand that. If you want to take those kids' money, then take it. Vote for that law. Just don't claim to take care of those kids and care about those kids. Markovanovic has been elected to represent you in one of the Zagreb units. Primary and high school. I don't get all the projects, of course, to name Zagreb because there are endless numbers. But only for high school and elementary school. Sesvetska Sela elementary school, Spanish elementary school, Oranice, Sesvetska Sopnica. In 18 schools it was upgraded or upgraded to three shifts of children. You need to do, fix the administrative-berotechnic school. This one in the Frankopan Hotel-Tourist. It's all in the plan if you don't take the money. Look, if you vote this bill, it must be clear to you what you're voting for. You must understand what you're voting for! You're voting that these primary schools will not be repaired or made, that there will be no kindergartens. You need to know who you're taking. So tell me what I'm taking from you, and tell them why you're taking it from them. In 2007, a full ten jubilee year will be completed as HDZ lost voter support in Zagreb. Then '97. The government was bought by the purchase of two councilmen every four years. I already said the patent. It was patented by President Tudjman when he said I would not allow the opposition situation in Zagreb. The patent that HDZ applies both today and in Sisak, both in Karlovac and wherever it should be. The European Commission is warning you today to stop using this patent and to legally resolve it, the European Commission. Maybe you'll listen to them! Maybe when you're not listening to your own citizens. You take this poor town of Zagreb because there is not one city in Croatia that has such social programs. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The only one you can tell me. You are jealous of the successful power of the SDP in Zagreb and now you want to show it to be more unsuccessful and you want Zagreb, take the money from Zagreb, the disabled in Zagreb, because these are the programs for disabled people. Well, gentlemen, my dear, you do it all. You fine vote this bill when it's voted, vote it. But be assured they will know how to explain to the Zagrebers what you did, they will know, they will explain. And then the Zagrebers will know how to answer Mr Markovanovic to you as a representative from one Zagreb unit and all others. He'll be able to answer you in the next election. Surely this move, this revenge towards Zagreb and the Zagrebs will not forget you!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75907	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75908	It's hard to correct so many allegations, but let's at least some. Here's one quote, says the gentleman says, a colleague actually says we don't have arguments, so I'm insulting. Well, it's not an insult. Well, the state's attorney's office really started dealing with INA. There's no reason for me to do this with INA, Mr Linic, Euro Petroleum and others. Well, that's what we've been reading, we've been following. You swear everything you read, we can say something. That's it. So I'm not insulting, I'm not making up, I'm not insulting, I'm just quoting. And please, if you're going to turn me in, so delay a little bar until Mr. Marinovic takes off his suspension that there's someone there to defend me.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75909	Thank you. I'm asking you to focus nicely on correcting the incorrect quote. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Nenadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75910	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting the incorrect assumption that something is being taken to the city of Zagreb. It's not taken. Do you know what Sishkens say? Sisak is working, and Zagreb is being built. We only return Sisak to that part of the means that has been achieved in Sisak. Therefore, we take nothing but a fairer redistribution. And that's true, and now this law will be responsible for everything that is done in Zagreb that's only 1% of the Zagreb budget will be smaller and you can't put 1% in that 1% and kindergarten, and poverty and I don't know what. That's incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75911	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation of the esteemed representative Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75912	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here is a colleague, Stazić, said to take Zagreb, to take the children of Zagreb, to take the pensioners of Zagreb and not to list further. Look, Mr. Trailer, I'll remind you and say it's not all true. It is true that Zagreb is given as much for both children and pensioners and kindergartens. That's what I said last night. However, the City of Zagreb has done nothing of these things. In the City of Zagreb for 6 years, your SDP has not been in power but only one kindergarten. In the town of Zagreb right in the quarter of Bezovica come and see. There's one elementary school up to four years old that has a cane ceiling with mud stained. I ask my colleagues who have come here from all over Croatia to the Parliament and represent their parts. Is there anywhere in Croatia that a school with cane ceiling also has mud stained. Here it is to honor the SDP as you lead the City of Zagreb. It's an honor, and you're not successful, but you're defeated.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75913	Thank you. Time's up. Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Sopčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75914	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to correct two allegations of a respected colleague of the Stazic. One that refers to the possibility of building kindergartens in Zagreb. It is an incorrect claim and a little funny that the City of Zagreb is unable to make several kindergartens a year. If one municipality, the Municipality of Žakanj is with 2000 inhabitants and 3 million kuna budget this year opens a new kindergarten, then the City of Zagreb is certainly able to open several kindergartens every year, especially after this change of the law, the City of Zagreb has more resources than all units of local self-government combined. Secondly, he would also correct the claim that HDZ did not allow the opposition situation in Karlovac. That's not true. The voters did not allow the opposition situation in Karlovac. True, Mr. Stazic has a difficult task this week because he himself is in charge of the town of Karlovac because unfortunately fellow Antičević Marinović is unfortunately not among us, so I took care of Karlovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75915	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75916	Mr. Vice President, colleague Stazic. I know you will say what is now coming from the 11th electoral unit related to Zagreb and Zagreb's problems. You said you were singing the city of Zagreb Croatian metropolis we love you, the capital of all Croatians. We sang to him once he was and stayed today. We settlers love him. We really love him and respect him. If it were up to us settlers if nothing else these six years, he'd be cleaner than he is, and it doesn't take a lot of money, no matter who's in power. You said not to be taken away, not to be taken away from the children of Zagreb, the poor, the disabled, the retired. Every child in our country, so if you want and everywhere in the world is a child and don't mention what you have no right to. And from our political speeches, let us take something that is most beautiful in this country, and these are children, and they should be equal throughout our country. It's not taken away, it's finally deployed properly.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75917	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75918	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I am correcting Mr. Stazić's incorrect allegations that he will miss the citizens of the city of Zagreb, the children of the city of Zagreb, the disabled of the city of Zagreb and all other groups. No, sir. I won't miss the trail. It's incorrectly absolute. It's just going to have to rationalize your mayor's son-in-law spending.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75919	Thank you. Replica, Your Honor, Correction of an Inaccurate Allegation, Yes, it is. [[/Intruder: Yes, it is.]] Correction of the incorrect allegations, MP Zubovic. Here you go. I thought it was a replica, so I did.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75920	Mr. Vice President. As a Zagreber, I must correct Mr. Stazic and his pathetic speech that Zagreb is taking something. It's just not true. We Zagreb need protection, and we can protect it by developing other parts of Croatia. We need to protect Zagreb and the Zagreb budget from sharing without money criteria throughout Croatia. Mayor Bandic shares money all over Croatia wherever he comes without any criteria. And it would be nice if Mr. Stazic, as Parliament's representative, would talk about it. And money and horses, etc. The most expensive ski cup is the Sljemen Cup. That's what you should talk about. Correction is that, I corrected you, you said it was...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75921	Yeah, well, all right, I preside, that's easy for anyone to throw away. Correction is an incorrect allegation, I estimate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75922	... Zagreb has not been taken. With this, Zagreb may have less traffic, less traffic in hospitals and hospitals.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75923	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75924	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I feel personally called by Mr. Stazic as... May I?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75925	Time now.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75926	I was on the list at the first constituency, and you know well that the first constituency is the center of Zagreb. We got a little less than 28% of Zagreb's votes. You said we were against the city of Zagreb, against the SDP. He did not win SDP in Zagreb, Mr Bandic, Mr Ivo Josipovic and Mirko Filipovic got it. Let's be clear. And how many SDPs rule the city? Well, I'd say he doesn't rule. In public, I'd say SDP doesn't rule the city. And that Zagreb will poverty if it is given, if the money is given to other cities, other children, then it will not. One example, 44 million kuna is given for books. It will remain since the Croatian government will pay its children's books to Croatian, thank God, it remains 44 and a little bit more than a million kuna in one item only. If we read the proposal a little bit better, we will see that the City of Zagreb can make up for the funds you say it will lose. He won't lose, but he'll start running a principled policy where he won't be throwing himself away with money, starting with my Chitluk, from my Chitluk near Medjugorje near Mostar, Sinj, the horse, this one. But for me as a resident of this city for 25 years every month for two, three kunas will come more on payments, times one million is a lot of it per payment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75927	Replica response, distinguished representative Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75928	I can only replicate what I learned from this speech. You see what's on my tail now and I'm told I'm wrong? According to Stazic, there is a shovel and claims that according to this law Zagreb will get less. Then what's he gonna do? He'll get more? They're gonna get more after this? And listen, and listen, so be careful, I don't know what that combination has to be like. I don't know which series of thoughts must be agreed there to conclude that Zagreb won't get any less. And everywhere it says it's going to get 700, 800 million. But, well, I leave that to you and the ability to think. Do not share your colleague Arapovic's lessons about how to manage Zagreb, the current Zagreb government. The current Zagreb authorities are now confirmed thirdly in the elections by citizens of the city of Zagreb. You say HDZ doesn't know 28% of the votes in Zagreb. He received 28% of those who went to the election, to these parliamentary ones, and perhaps from your Chitluk. But the Zagreb woman doesn't. So don't teach the city administration how and what it does. They know that very well. And the citizens of Zagreb know very well how to value it, and they will also be able to appreciate this attitude and attitude of your party towards Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75929	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Jelena Pavicičić Vukičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75930	Thank you very much. I wanted to replicate my esteemed colleague, Stazic, in part of his debate when he spoke about the recent European Commission report. After this report by the European Commission and following the explanation of Prime Minister Sanader's opinion on the European Commission's findings and, of course, since we are further positive, an article in the "New York Times" said that the text was not translated into Croatian and that people simply could not read it, they could not understand it. In this context, we could also suggest that such laws are also published in English.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75931	Replication response. In English or in Croatian?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75932	The European Commission's opinion in the context in which I spoke is quite clear. The European Commission warns the Croatian government, warns the Croatian government of choosing to judicially resolve the issue of buying council mandates. That's the problem the SDP has been warning about for months now. Since the last local elections, he warns that it is an inadmissible practice of the lowest form of political corruption, almost equal, it could be... /The speaker turned off and turned back on./... could only be compared to that of independent representatives or so on. Independent MPs receive one million kuna per term for voting in favour of government proposals. The theme is the answer to the replica, that's the theme. This is a subject, a response to the replica, and the replica concerned reports from the European Commission. Therefore,...... I know that this subject is unpleasant for you, so you're throwing it away so that Mr. Zubovic can stop me. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But you can shut Pintaric up there, but you won't have SDP representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75933	Go back to the subject. You've got 30 seconds left.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75934	You stop the throw.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75935	... allow you to get back on the subject, and I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75936	Do not throw or turn off the microphones.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75937	Please don't turn the wheels off. Or is it one of yours? Someone in the hall, maybe not these.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75938	Yeah, yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75939	I don't know. We need to establish a commission. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75940	So that's what the European Commission told you, and that will keep telling you again.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75941	The European Commission is not a subject. ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75942	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Stazic has injured Article 209 by making false, well I've known my colleague Nash for more than 25 years, and I know he's always been in a fight with the truth, but to say what he said about independent representatives...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75943	My colleague, please, a fellow representative has his name and name and I am really asking you to...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75944	Okay. So we're not what...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75945	Your friendly relationship to coffee, and I'd like you to address Mr. Stazic nicely.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75946	Yes, it is. Here we are... Yes, we are bound by a sacred noun called Yugoslavia, he supported it, I hated it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So let's go, he made one great lie before this House that independent MPs would be given the mandate of a million kunas. It's a total lie and he added to vote, etc. So every MP in the Croatian Parliament, 152 by decision of the Constitutional Court gets so much money, now some are independent, and some members go to their parties. So the party gets for every MP as well as independent. So this was a total misinformation so I wouldn't tell a lie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75947	Thank you. And I stress that this is not an injury to Article 209 but 214 because he took off the topic and I really did when I tried to take his word away, the Honorable Representative Stazic sat down and finished his answer, so I could not use Article 214 and I did not hurt Article 209. Thank you. Have we settled this? Yeah. Honorable representative Damir Cain. He's not in the hall. Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic. He's not in the hall. Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75948	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Proposer. We have before us a proposal of the Law on the financing of local self-government for which it would be better to call a law on redistributing the funding of local and regional self-government at the expense of the City of Zagreb. In his December 2005 proposal, HNS proposed that the total income tax and real estate tax remain entirely local to the local self-government and that part of the Balance Fund that is now going to the central state. However, in points 2 and 3 of Article 45 of your proposal, the counties have been completely left behind, so you have evicted the counties from point 3. So income referred to in point 2 of point 2 of the income tax is shared between the state, municipality and city. The county's not covered by this. Point 4. The CNS proposal proposes a much more even distribution of the total revenue, otherwise the proposals are quite similar and therefore I carry out this partnership, the revenues between the municipalities, cities and the county and the central state which participates in the distribution of income tax through support for balancing, i.e. through the Enabling Aid Fund. We also suggested that income tax that the share of the municipality, i.e. the city in income tax 50%, in the county to be 18.6%, for the City of Zagreb to be 68.6% while the share of positions to help level up for decentralised functions according to our proposal was the same 21%. If we were to make this proposal today, we would also reduce the percentage in the balancing aid part, and that would reduce it from 21% to 15%, or we would suggest it is formed from profit tax because it is a logic that funding and assistance to local self-government units to be given from the central state rather than given to other units of local self-government. If we went to 15% then we would give the remaining 6% to cities, i.e. municipalities, which would increase the share of income tax in the City of Zagreb from 67% to 73%. The funds of 15% are, however, resources which retain the state and unintended spending on other expenditures in the state budget. I would really like to ask a colleague here, since there is no Mr. Shucker, namely in the light of your proposal it is said that the total income tax in 2005, it is written on page 3, perhaps best to look at, excuse me on page 8. So in 2005, a total of 9 million 290,000 kuna income from income tax, from which income tax cuts of 899 million, the state budget of 1,424 million, and aid for balancing is 1, therefore, a billion 682. Now, my question is, it just didn't work out in 2000, when it goes into the 2005 budget, it's good to see that there was no spending of all the funds, or that it was spent less. So about 310 million because 1.6 billion kuna was spent. So simply 310 million kunas were not transferred to local self-government units in 2005 and there, an esteemed colleague, would ask you to comment a little after the debate is over if you can. So, with respect to the implementation of the 2005 budget, it was planned to be 1.8, 1.7, 1,682 and 310 million left unallocated because 1.4 billion were spent in the Alignment Fund. So around 310 million income from income tax in the Enabling Aid Fund remained in that year in the state budget and was allocated for other needs of the budget, not as intended. The 2007 proposal plans a total income tax of €1.698 billion, and the overall Alignment Aid Fund is planned with 1.4 billion. There's another 280 million difference. If these 280 million and 490 million kuna were to be summed up as much as expected from the sales tax on real estate in Croatia in the following year, it would be worth around 800 million kuna which would only then be able to talk about the positive effects of the decentralisation process and the even distribution of funds to local self-government units. This so far is just a redistribution. And you'd be praying for one more thing. Comment on the exclusion of counties from the distribution of real estate tax. Namely, real estate tax according to the current legal provisions and according to your proposal, the income of the municipality, i.e. the city and state until the counties participate in the distribution of that tax at all. It is indisputable that counties adopt spatial plans and participate in strategic, infrastructure and other projects of importance for the county, which certainly contributes in a certain way to the development of a region that is also held at the value of real estate and the extent of real estate traffic in its area. I'd like to ask an esteemed colleague to comment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75949	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative Jelena Pavicic-Vukicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75950	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here we heard, we had a chance to hear today from the Minister of Finance who were the motives of proposing this law. The most frequently mentioned decentralisation is the fact that the very reason for this Law states that the aim was to implement a more balanced and fair distribution of tax resources in order to develop Croatia evenly. It is also a matter of compensating the lost total income tax with an increase in income tax in favour of local self-government units. I think it is important to call it one real name, that it is a one-time, one one-sided redistribution of funds, mainly to the damage of the City of Zagreb, but as we had the opportunity to hear it at the expense of some other units of local self-government. I know some would like the City of Zagreb and the Zagreb parliamentary representatives to fight only for the Zagreb budget. Indeed, I cannot be surprised at this debate, which has been present in the media recently, that only the Government is concerned about the even development of Croatia, especially the strengthening of its most underdeveloped parts, and that the City of Zagreb is interested only in its own development and that politicians in the City of Zagreb do not see beyond these administrative and territorial borders of the city. Thus, the problem tried to come down to 800 million kunas for which the fact that the Zagreb budget will lose them and, therefore, the problem came down to the Zagreb budget and especially to those that the government forgot about, and these are the Zagrebs, these are the taxpayers in the City of Zagreb. Every country in this world in any political system and with any government regime has its own capital. Although throughout history Zagreb has not always been the capital city of Zagreb has been the capital since the establishment of a sovereign and independent Republic of Croatia, it was the capital in the war and it is in peace today. The Zagreb boys also died on all Croatian battlefields and it is a great injustice to talk about Zagreb today with a certain animosity, to talk about the rich Zagreb to which the rest of Croatia should be taken about the poor periphery to which it should be given. We are also in the City of Zagreb for the smooth development of Croatia, for decentralisation processes, for increasing income to units of local self-government, especially in those, therefore, units of local self-government located in areas of special state concern. I'm afraid that in this debate, too, we have left out the key, that only four and a half million inhabitants live in this country and that all of us or our ancestors come from somewhere and perhaps from a field of special state concern. So this kind of deception offends because cities, municipalities, and counties are really going to get 500 million kunas less and that's the whole truth. The city of Zagreb will have 800 million kunas less in its budget and it is said that Zagreb should submit the sacrifice in favour of the even development of Croatia. I'm afraid we don't have anything against it, no matter how much some of us would like us to put ourselves on our backs. But the problem is why we don't have this strategy of a balanced development of Croatia, why we don't have a programme of measures, why the state is arbitration and deciding what a capital project is in a particular unit of local self-government and what it will do with different state aids and funding. But I don't mean to talk about the City of Zagreb just because I was born here or because I was elected to this constituency. I would then like to say something about these areas of special state care, about these mountainous and mountainous areas and islands that have been considered to have some particular place of their own, that here, according to this principle of justice, I have to pollomise that they will get more money which is only somewhat true because more money will be obtained again only by the state, the central and centralised state and the state budget and the government and the ministries who have proposed this amendment of the law because the state does not give, does not directly bring down units of local self-government but will arbitration and co-determinate in setting criteria. And then where's the decentralization actually? Finally, while we are discussing this Law today, the proposal for a Zagreb budget for 2007 has already been established and has been released into the procedure for first reading to the City Assembly. So we in the city hall will discuss a budget that, with its final proposal, with its second reading, will have nothing to do with it and we feel that the same for this failure, for this problem someone responsible. The future of projects such as the Zagreb airport, the Museum of Contemporary Art, the Music Academy, the financing of the Croatian National Theatre, the future of "Rebra", the construction of a hall for the upcoming World Handball Championship, are all projects whose future is at risk, and this has nothing to do with Zagreb and Zagreb and whether Zagreb is rich or poor. There, of course, I must disappoint you, the City of Zagreb is also known in European terms for its social programmes, and I am fully convinced that we will not cut social rights, that unfortunately we will have to cut investment. You say you want to develop Croatia evenly. I think it's important then that this government is dealing with the creation of new jobs because the citizens of this country want to live off their wages and they don't want to live on charity, they don't want to live on something called the help of a local self-government unit. They don't want to live on different supplements, free textbooks, but they want to live on their work and their pay. So as long as it's redeployed from one position to another at that level, as long as it spills from hollow to empty, I'm afraid we're all losing. I don't think anyone wins, and no one loses, unfortunately with this kind of policy, we all lose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75951	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Željko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75952	Thank you, Mr. President. I have to correct again the incorrect assumption that the City of Zagreb is being spoken of here with... We didn't start this topic, you started the topic of how the City of Zagreb loses, and I ask you if you really think it's fair that those money made in those places where people work is incomed by the City of Zagreb? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is that fair and fair and is that correct? I repeat, Zagreb is not taken, just for the sake of a fairer distribution.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75953	Dear Representative Miljenko Doric. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Željko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75954	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Assistant Minister. So I'd start with one finding from this afternoon that I've been called by a few dozen mayors and mayors who from my county, who from the surrounding counties support the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Finance's efforts to see the light of day and to get most in the Parliament. One small municipality, not to name it now, where the returnees and settlers, who has so far had a budget of about a million and 200 thousand and people have taken a pen into their hands with the help of the tax administration and calculated during the morning that they will receive a million and 900 thousand kuna. For them is 700 thousand kuna means life, and for us and for the City of Zagreb 700 thousand kuna mayor to, in one day. Now that's fair, and that's fine, and that's what we want to do with this law. It means that those who have not been able to develop their economies, who have not been able to invest in the economy, too, are able to do so now. It is also quite clear that in these areas, because of job shortages, many seek jobs and receive it in large settlements, large centres, and what does this result? That they should actually move into these big centers, i.e. that we cannot provide them with their constitutional right to live wherever they want because if they travel every day 100 kilometers towards Sisak or Zagreb, then it is not logical and just that they and their municipalities and cities earn income where people live. And I believe that all this controversy around the City of Zagreb and about the fact that Zagreb is taking something is quite deplaced because the citizens of Zagreb will know about it and they will be able to estimate that definitely by 1%, and 1% is the reduced budget of the City of Zagreb compared to those that 1% can't make either the mass of kindergartens, or the airport, or all that you have listed here. So, please, it's pretty late, and I don't want to be too poly about this, everything's already said. Let's finally put our heads in a pile and show the citizens of Zagreb, as well as the citizens of other parts of Croatia who will get the opportunity to spend the money as they will, and not as the Government says because if this money... their budget then they will have it in their own way as they consider it best. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's let them do it and make that more proper redistribution. Another thesis that's going through, which is that there's no decentralisation of this law. If you believe that the 300 million kuna that the state made in 2007 is going to go according to the projections it made for the financing of local administration and self-government, if the state means to pass those 300 million kunas on the ground that it is not decentralisation. You probably think it's too little money. I assure you again that it's for areas where we live and where we make very big money and there's a lot to be done for. In any case, it is not only possible to talk about the redistribution where there is and the redistribution is at stake, but also decentralisation in terms of these 300 million kunas, which will be referred by the Croatian Government in 2007 to those areas that need to be addressed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75955	Thank you. We have four replicas. First, a respected representative, Zvonimir Mršić. ... What about the correction of the incorrect quote? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Because that's another thing. That's the first thing then. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75956	Thank you. Here's an esteemed fellow MP saying the city budget, the Zagreb city budget, is shrinking by 1%. Since the Zagreb budget in the first reading has 7 billion kuna and the second one will drop by 800 million kuna, it is certainly about 10-11%, it is not 1. I'm not good at math, but it'd rather be 11% less budget than 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75957	It's smaller than bigger. It's smaller. ... No, no. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now we have a replica. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić first.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75958	Yeah. We regret that we had to wait for counterpart Nenadic to finally explain the minister's mathematics. Because if 700 million is compared to 7 billion percent, then this is really decentralisation, you know. That math when you apply it to what you're talking about is really about decentralisation. However, we apply real mathematics and when, according to the mathematics that the world knows, you calculate the whole story then it's not 300 million more in 2007, but 600 million in 2007, in 2008, it's 650 million and in 2009, it's 724 million, unless we have different budgets, which is also not excluded for each club to get or position one and the opposition to another budget in this. But you know, if you took 7 billion kunas of Zagreb 1% and 700 million, then it would also be decentralisation, if you took 110 billion Sanaders and divided them into Croatia, and then it would be quite certain that the municipality you were talking about did not get 100 million but would get maybe 300, 400 million. Imagine what that community would mean to 300 million, 400 million. And that 1% would mean nothing to the government. If Zagreb means nothing at all, imagine what it is to the government at 110 billion. That might be about, you know, we wouldn't have to fly the plane around to the opera, we could go some other way. Maybe we shouldn't go to the opera house at all, huh? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75959	Replica response, Honored Representative Željko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75960	Mr. Lobster! Obviously, we, you and I live in two different worlds. And you can't possibly understand that I wasn't talking about, like, 100 million or 400 million. I was talking about a million and 200,000 kunas that the community had. You can't understand that one municipality has a million and 200 grand because for you, it's a joke. But that's the money these people live on, build roads, schools, kindergartens have even. They even have a kindergarten watch. Can you imagine? Now, that's the point of this law. That these small municipalities with 700 thousand kunas, not 700 million kunas, but 700 thousand kunas mean life, and they were so joyful and joyful that this law came into the process and that they would see the light of day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75961	Second replica, respected representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75962	And that's why I'm correcting my colleague. In 2007, there will be no 300 million kuna in local self-government units based on data from the Ministry of Finance. Based on their projections in total over the next 3 years, 2 billion kuna projections draws more into the state budget, which means they will be taken to local self-government units. I'd say the detachment process for local self-government units is called centralization. It's not called decentralisation. Therefore, the process itself of redistributing is something that is not bad. Which is good, what everyone's been looking for. But the process of centralization, the process of withdrawing money from local self-government units was not required and is not what cities and municipalities want. And that's what will harm cities and municipalities.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75963	Replica response, Honored Representative Željko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75964	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm very sorry, dear colleague Linic, we had meetings that ended differently and not that they met on different sides. I have here a document called scenario 13, the 2007 projection by the Department of Finance of the Ministry of Finance. And it says it loud and clear, but you are just forgetting what your colleague Mršić forgets, and that is that, apart from the tax on profit that is in the game and income tax there are also funds that are given directly from the budget to cities, municipalities in areas of special state care and they are in the amount of 287 million 499 thousand etc. Therefore, it is the 300 million kuna that the state will shoot directly in areas of special national concern. Of course you're not interested in it when you're not in those areas and you don't have that information. We can sit down later, I'll show you this. If this is a fake, then I'm lying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75965	Dear representative Marija Lugaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75966	Dear colleague Nenadic! Can you, I would beg you, if you could give me... For one part of your debate to explain something? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I've been trying to figure out here all day that it's debated how money is distributed from Croatian citizens on income tax and profit tax, right? Now. I read the state budget, projections of the state budget, and I read the law. I don't have any scenarios 11, 13 and stuff like this, I have the state budget and materials of the Croatian government. If the state budget in Croatian government materials says that units of local self-government are going to get less for 600 million kunas in 2007 and the state is at the same time income I forgot the exact number of hundreds of millions of kunas more on the tax continuum of 600 million kunas more thanks, on the net profit tax because it was written by the Government in the state budget. Then how is that decentralisation?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75967	Replica response, Honored Representative Željko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75968	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You obviously go in the woods and we go in the road and it's a very tight road that's known and the Croatian people recognized in the elections, I believe they will and again, and that means that the projection according to the current law and according to the legal proposal is the same when it comes to income tax and profit tax. It amounts to 17 billion 680 million etc. She's the same, she's just redistributed differently. And in that sense, you probably don't have all the data, you're looking at two items from the budget, and the third item that applies to her you didn't, you definitely didn't put her into office and you didn't include her in this 600 million you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75969	And respected representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75970	President, colleagues and colleagues! Today, we are talking about laws that talk about taxes and do not talk about budget allocations. So we're talking about taxes because the funding of local self-government units is just being based on the Tax Act. And what can we determine? This proposal is a step back. There's one good thing. One good thing has been redistributed in favour of municipalities and cities, redistributions. It's a good positive thing, no one contests it, we all demanded it. The redistribution is desirable. Even if today's rights had been distributed, if the real bill had been right, we would be having a debate today whether the level of redistribution is enough because our amendment of the SPD is telling an even greater redistribution we need to make, even greater. So no one contests redistribution. But why can't we accept it? We cannot accept further strengthening of the central state and the reduction of resources for local self-government units and we can do whatever you want from the projections. And by the way, we'd have to stop making and voting before the ministry gives us projections. Because we can falsely convince each other, and if the ministry had given projections you'd see, 2006 is one thing, the law doesn't apply to it, but in 2007, you have the Ministry projections, you have a new calculation of 603 million kunas more money going into the state budget. That's what we're going to vote on. We are voting against the conclusions of the organizations themselves that protect their interests, contrary to the European Charter, against our request to the government because we have said to redistribute but also to give additional funds to cities and municipalities. Why extra? Because they need those funds. I can't finance all the common needs they're financing. To give extra, we make the decision to take them. That's the proposal of this law. No one has ever challenged our papers, no one, based on projections. You don't want to take them, you say they're broken. All right, these are now your right not to hear our argument, but tomorrow the experts will calculate that in three years the state will collect 2 billion kuna more. So what do we do? Then shall we repent of making that decision. Well, we can't give the state 2 billion kuna anymore, we can't. Then it's not a decentralisation process, it's not a process we want to go through. And we have to reverse this procedure, give a billion kunas to more units of local self-government. And no one from the SDP club has disputed the redistribution process. We're contesting the centralised procedure. A 2 billion kuna reduction to local self-government units. For what? And we're not gonna say the other thing. When we asked for a redistribution of profit tax because we estimate that the city and municipality headquarters is not a high-quality basis, instead of talking about whether these are counties because in the same county there may be pollution and the headquarters of the company. And why do we estimate that there is no need to concentrate certain taxes on cities and municipalities or local communities and on the state? Because the actions of the central government of this Parliament can do all sorts of things. Tomorrow, in order to stimulate redistribution of the benefits of pay, we'll say we'll cut the profit tax. Trying to encourage the rich, let's say, we're going to reduce the 45% rate, by 35%. Do you know what that means? Less income to local self-government units, less taxes. The state won't feel it, she can make such a proposal without a problem, without a problem. You can say we want to raise the profit tax. Everything's going to go to the state budget. Therefore, these common regulations, which were, I apologize, common taxes that belonged to the units of local self-government and state, meant some kind of more uniform distribution between the state and local self-government. But the policy that led through the tax rates then had very clear and clear messages but also effects on the central government and the local self-government unit. What are we doing now? Simply, one belongs to the units of local self-government, the other belongs to the state and we can change our policy of rate, our tax policy and harm the units of local self-government. Believe me, this is a law that will not allow local self-government to develop at all, which will make it possible to weaken their future development, weaken and depend on the mercy of the central government. Not only that, the central government will send messages. Yeah, we'd cut the rate, but we can't. Your problem is local self-government units, that's their income. Therefore, political messages can try to damage the units of local self-government. Not by developing them, but by doing political damage because obviously this law is not a proposal to improve further decentralisation of local self-government units, is not a proposal. That's why as a club we suggested that we continue to remain together both taxes, to carry out decentralisation. Even our proposal and even more resources are weaker and poorer. Even more. And the profit tax is shared by the county. So not to cities and municipalities, to counties. It's true. Our proposal costs the state budget. Two billion less. Instead of two billion more two billion less. That's a suggestion. We don't need to agree on everything, but let's see how much change it is. And do you fight to strengthen units of local and regional self-government? Not strengthening the central budget. And one more thing, you understand we won't be able to just say we took Zagreb, we gave it to the others. That's not true. It was given to the weak and the poor. To say hello. Zagreb took the central budget. Two billion kunas to be collected in the next three years alone. That's the money taken from Zagreb. It's an account of the Croatian government with the citizens of Zagreb. Their money didn't go to the poor. No, that's not true. That's not true. Well, if that's politics. We can understand that. We can understand that. If the central government thinks that Zagreb should be taken and entered into the state budget, then so we order. But it was not taken by Zagreb to give to some small municipalities. You can't see that from this document. This document shows clearly where Zagreb's money went? He was kidnapped and brought into the central budget. But the kidnapping of the citizens of Zagreb will damage all units of local self-government. Because it will disable further development. Disable. Because any further transfer of funds from central government to local self-government will mean that it will not only go to the poor, only to the poor, but also to the city of Zagreb. And that moment, the effects will be much weaker. What's a tragedy today is that we are discussing fundamental things as parliamentary representatives. It's an emergency procedure. We have no indication of anyone who should be read measuredly because these are obligations under the European Charter, but we have neither elements nor papers on which we can talk. We don't. And then we don't trust each other. Is that consciously done? And it's about false terms. And I believe we'll open the debate. Because if we really go through the budget when we adopt it, we find that the state took in the next three years two billion kunas more, believe me, it's going to be the point of the agenda. There's going to be a agenda point and we're going to be wondering who fooled your councilmen with some other papers?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75971	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Željko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75972	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have to correct the incorrect assumption that it is not true that your colleague Linic is challenging this law and in terms of redistribution because here 90% of your discussions have been conducted in terms of the care of poor Zagreb, which is going to run out of 600 million kuna and I don't know how many and how here we won't even be able to make an airport because of this money. But definitely these ideas you've come up with here are very good. You're just three years late with them. You're three years late with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75973	Replica, respected representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75974	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I would like to replicate Mr. Slavko Linic to what he said that only one thing in this proposal is good. I agree that absolutely as you admit there is a good thing when it comes to municipalities and cities that will support these funds in further development and that we agree together because this decentralization stems from their petty demands that have been made constantly through this year and for your former authorities as well as for these. And it had to move towards this kind of decentralisation to really make the municipalities and cities go towards their development because they deserve it. And that's the basic thing that bothers you because every success and decision... making good decisions doesn't suit you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you invent centralization, and you yourself are aware that every good and justified project finds a foothold in the state budget and is not approved by party commitment, as can be the example of government projects in the community with the city of Zagreb. Therefore, you cannot say that there is no funding from the central state for projects that are justified. But that's why you're looking for spending control in projects like this, which has not been a practice so far, and the Treasury is now only paying for what's really been done after the end of the day. I can tell you had time and opportunity to make a decision on decentralisation and you missed it. Today you really leave room to bring this, so you will see how citizens of cities and municipalities react and with what satisfaction they welcome this way of decentralisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75975	Reply to the replica, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75976	Well, since you're entering the fourth year of office, calling for our mandate is just saying how successful you were for three years, so I wouldn't comment on those statements anymore, and I'd say sub-students to some of your ministers. But what I want to say very clearly. Another practice in Croatia has been inauguration in these three years. Do you know what practice? Fight, then rule. To kidnap the state budget of the City of Zagreb, to kidnap you have made redistribution and then now you tell small municipalities that is the money of the City of Zagreb. There's a question of whether we'll be the louder ones to say it's not true. It is the money that belongs to you, but to get it, you have to raise your hands to kidnap the money of Zagreb and enter the state budget. It is therefore saddened that we are building Croatia, that we are making changes in Croatia by arguing Croatia. Very often, your Prime Minister tried to say, "I will not argue with Croatia". And today you're ordering it from Parliament's pay phone. You little ones raise your hand, praise us, applaud us because here we gave you the money of Zagreb. Be assured that we're gonna talk isn't true. That's not true. The money of Zagreb was taken by the Government into the central budget, and you only have to clap because otherwise you won't get a chance to live. Very sad. You shouldn't argue with Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75977	Thank you. Final review of State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance Ante Zigman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75978	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here in this after-all-day debate over this law I might eventually defile all and in a certain way untrue claims that the central state is taking advantage of this law. This is not true and all simulations at all the years we've been doing very carefully over the past two months show that the central state is losing some of its income and giving them to local units. The Central State, therefore, does not need this. So, together with the sum of the next year's income tax and profit tax, the central government would have, under the current law, 9 billion and 100 million kunas of income. Under the new law, which is, that is, under the new law that lies ahead of you, the central state will have 8 billion and 800 million revenue. So 300 million kunas less. I don't know how you got the amount of 600 million kuna. If you look at the draft budget for 2007, you will see that income tax is falling faster for the central state than the profit tax is growing and there is a clear difference, and the income tax that the state has lost is in the budgets of units of local and regional, regional self-government brought by their congregations, and not the Parliament and the Government can't propose it to the Parliament but the individual, therefore local leaders will propose it to their congregations and that is there in those budgets. In these budgets, too, this difference should be sought, not in the central government budget, or consolidated budget, which will be in the parliamentary benches very soon. Furthermore, when we talk about the benefits of this law, therefore, income tax as such is a very liquid income for local and regional and regional self-government units. So it comes regularly every month. As you know, profit tax comes twice a year, so at intervals in April and May at larger amounts. So income tax will come continuously. Those who were patient and waited maybe in 2007 for some to make a profit will have it every year whether some company in some area produces profits or not, because believe me, profit is only beautiful as long as it is there, and when the economy goes downhill, then you get no more. So you're wondering where your income is? And the wages as such will certainly be paid. So in this context, the large benefit is for local administration and self-government units, and in all this, they will certainly not be abolished. About the fair distribution I think there have been quite enough words throughout the day, throughout the debate and I don't think there's any need to waste any more words about it. Although I am from Zagreb, although I am very fond of Zagreb in this sense, a certain unit of local and regional self-government should certainly have a certain level of fairer distribution of income. I note, in this sense, this bill will certainly contribute to a fairer distribution of income to local units. Local units automatically receive this income simply so that it does not distribute tax administrations either, but it is automatically subject to this law as soon as the taxpayer of income is paid, i.e. the tax is therefore transferred to the accounts of units of local and regional self-government and, of course, in this context, it will be much better liquidity and much more even and improved development of the Republic of Croatia in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75979	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75980	I am correcting the inaccuracies of the secretary of state who pointed out that next year we will have less resources in the state budget. The exact data is we'll have 603 million kunas more. If the Secretary of State held that his information was correct, he would have delivered it to the MPs for what was his obligation. And it was his obligation. Therefore, the bills of the Assembly representative have the same weight as the data that the secretary keeps to himself. Therefore, his data is incorrect. You'll have 603 million more next year, and we're going to have to have a really fat talk about it. And I'm holding you responsible for not delivering the information to the MPs. That's what you're supposed to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75981	The second correction by the esteemed representative, Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75982	I would also like to correct the incorrect assumption that the state budget will contribute less. If we read the same state budget, the state budget proposal and projections for 2008 and 2009, then the state will receive 603 million kunas more than it will lose income tax and these are facts. If that's not true, it was the turn to say here that this budget that we have is not correct, but that there are projections of the budgets that speak otherwise. And second, as far as income stability is concerned, if the company does bad business, then the first thing that cuts are wages and jobs, because the owner will never go to his own expense, but always goes to the harm of the workers. Therefore, if there is no gain, there will be no God or income tax. Not that there will be no taxes, there will be no salaries for those people, so these people will come to the social programme of city and municipal budgets.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75983	I'm closing the debate. The session continues on Wednesday at 9.30 with a debate on the 2007 State Budget Proposal and other accompanying documents. We're going to the vote. First, the Final Proposal of the Act amending the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club. Secretary of State, Ante Zigman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75985	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The proposed amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75986	Give me some peace! And you louder.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75987	All right. So, the government's amendment to SDP's Club of Representatives completely rejects. The reason is that the state would lose 3 billion and 276 million kuna compared to the distribution under the current law of the amount lost to the city of Zagreb would be 54% of the funds, billions and 700, and to the counties only 8%, cities and municipalities 38%. According to the distribution of revenues, the amendment suggested that the City of Zagreb would receive as much as 48% of its income as it has under the applicable law. According to the amendment, the City of Zagreb has the right to a 100% share in income tax, which is 3.9 billion kuna. In addition, the city has the right to an additional share for decentralised functions of 15%. Since he has already received 100% income tax, the question is, where will the funds be allocated for his decentralisation amounting to 600 million kuna. According to the projection of the restoring ministries, the minimum standards for decentralised functions in 2007 would be 2.5 billion kuna. By accepting the amendments of the unit without Zagreb, only 810 million kuna for minimum standards would be achieved from an additional share for decentralised functions despite the increased rates. This distribution of income tax and profit cannot therefore be accepted because in this distribution, the City of Zagreb would be in a particularly favourable position compared to other units.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75988	Thank you. Who's going? Honourable representative Zvonimir Mršić on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75989	First of all, I want to correct the State Secretary's incorrect claim, so I would not lose the state budget of 3.5 billion but would be decentralised to the units of local and regional and regional self-government. This amendment went after the fact that, under this law, decentralisation and financial resources have come under this law. Unfortunately, now that it has become whitedened that the next year, in the 4th month of the unit of local self-government, the increased share of income tax per year, and that the income tax per year will be the income of the state budget, it is quite certain that the units of local self-government will have less money in the following year, with less money than they have in 2006. We therefore ask that this amendment be voted on because this amendment really speaks about decentralisation, and the bill as proposed by the Government speaks about further centralising fiscal revenues in the Republic of Croatia for the benefit of the state budget and not only for the damage of Zagreb and not just for the damage of 33 units of local self-government, but for the next year more than half of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will live in units of local self-government that will have less income than they had in 2006. The SDP Club is requesting a statement on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-17-0.u75990	Please, we should vote. Please, let's get on with it. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? The result? 21 for, 2 abstentions, 66 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 71 votes for, 5 abstentions and 4 against, the Law was passed in the text as proposed by the Government. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm opening a session. I propose that we start the debate first on the 2007 State Budget Proposal with the accompanying documents and hold a vote on the proposals of the Mandate-Immunity Commission at 3 p.m. - Proposal for a State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2007, with a Budget projection proposal for 2008 and 2009 - Croatian highways, - Croatian roads, - State agencies for the insurance of savings deposits and resolution of banks, - Croatian Privatization Fund, - Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund - Proposal for the State Budget and financial plans of extra budget users for 2007, with the Proposed Budget for 2008 and 2009 /consolidated/ - Explanation of State Budgets and Financial Plans for 2007 and 2009 projections for 2008 and 2009
