ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66375	Gentlemen, we all have a good morning, and we will proceed with the agenda and the session of the Parliament. It's time to... /Break up on the tape./... 16. Law on the National Foundation for Civil Society Development. - Annual report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development for 2005 The Management Board of the Foundation submitted that report. You received the material by mail. The debate was held: the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the reports at the session. The government delivered an opinion. Does the representative want to further explain the proposal? Would you like to explain the proposal? Yeah. Representative for the proposing Mrs. Cvetana Plavša-Matic, head of the foundation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66376	Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed MPs and MPs allow me to present in several sentences the annual report you received and which is actually the first 20 months of work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development, which was established in October 2003 by a special law in the Croatian Parliament. What is characteristic of last year's operation of the foundation is, in fact, its stabilisation and development especially after the first months of the constitution and of the Management Board and staff of the foundation or of the professional service operating in the foundation. What is seen in the report is that through the report we gave a review of the improvement of the quality of the foundation’s operation system. A review of the programme carried out by the foundation. The 2005 income and expenditure account and a list of 252 funded projects, initiatives, institutional support and research and 10 projects financed through the European Union's "Cards" programme. According to the classification of the European Trust Centre from Brooksella, our national trust fund belongs to the so-called "Bruxella". the type of mixed public trust. You are mixed because it combines two important and, let's say, the most representative types of trust in Europe and the world, which are the ones that grant financial support and those that operate. So our National Foundation combines and gives financial support and performs its own operational activities. The Management Board of the Foundation shall be composed of nine members. That's three of them from the government. Petero from civil society. And one representative from the local self-government unit. In line with the Foundation's strategic objectives, the Foundation has conducted several competitions and cooperation programmes. Competitions are related to the promotion of civic activity, along with joint projects with the local community with the democratisation and development of civil society. Participation or assistance in the departure of our representatives to international meetings and the assignment of so-called institutional support to help develop and stabilise the organisation. Cooperation programmes are related to research related to the positioning of civil society, education and non-profit media projects. The most important publications of the foundation last year were related to a magazine published every two months in English and Croatian. Then the translation of the booklet "50 Questions and Answers to the European Constitution". Then the Catalogue of Informal Education for Democratic Citizenship and Libraries which discusses the legal status of organisations acting for the common good. As far as the European Union is concerned, the Foundation manages one fund, part of the CARDS Fund, which is intended for civil society to provide services in the field of social care, health protection and extra-institutional education. While we also organised educational programmes where 25 civil society students attended an information and education programme on the European Union, which resulted in days or days of the Association Day in Brussels, where the development of civil society in Croatia was presented. As far as funding is concerned, most of the funds that come to the foundation are from gambling to gambling means part of the revenue from gambling. The smaller part comes from the State budget and a considerable amount of funds from the Foundation is provided through international cooperation and, of course, by this funding coming from the European Union. It is also important to say that the Foundation has become a full member of the European Trust Centre in Brussels and has left the co-operation with sister organisations in the Member States of the European Union. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66377	Thank you very much. Would the Committee's representatives like to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDSS Club, Mr. Ratko Gajica. He's gone. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr Emil Tomljanović. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66378	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club accepts the annual report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development for 2005. I would also like to point out that the fundamental issues of establishing a structure and a foundation as well as other important issues for the work of the foundation itself are governed by the Law on the National Foundation for the Development of Civil Society, which was adopted at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament on 16 October 2003. According to the Law of the Foundation, a fundamental purpose is to promote and develop civil society. In this context, the Foundation provides professional and financial support to programmes: programmes that promote the sustainability of the non-profit sector, inter-resorship cooperation, civic initiatives, philanthropy and volunteering. Then programmes that promote the democratic institutions of society and other programmes that achieve the fundamental purpose of the law. According to the European and world classification of the trusts, it falls within the category of mixed trusts that combine in their work the programmes to grant financial support and operational implementation programmes in cooperation with other organisations. The allocation of financial support shall be carried out exclusively through public tenders for certain programming areas while operational implementation of activities is carried out through calls for expression of interest in cooperation. How it is professionally referred to in the implementation of educational modules to strengthen the capacity of civil society organisations. However, regardless of the activities of the foundation, it really protects and promotes the values found in the establishment of social justice, equal opportunities for all citizens, tolerance, better conditions and quality of life, and the expansion of public space. It is in this sense that the report in question should not only be considered, but the affirmation of these values should be regarded as the necessary achievement of the civilization's consciousness on the one hand compared to the overall development of society on the other hand. Furthermore, only the report consists of a series of separate units that need to be singled out. First, the improvement of the quality of action system. Then, the programme of support and regional development, cooperation programmes, fostering inter-resorship cooperation. Then, international cooperation programmes and international projects as well as information and education programmes. Although each of these units deserves special attention, it should be pointed out that in the first place efforts to introduce a new model of asset management deserve a special analysis. In particular, the transition from mainly budgetary sources of funds and sources achieved from gambling shares as a model of investment in non-risk, debt securities, cash registers, Treasury records of the Ministry of Finance, government bonds as well as partial investments in domestic and foreign bonds and shares should provide new and more contributions, and therefore also a financial basis for an even more efficient operation. The new Regulation on the conditions and procedure for the allocation of funds for the purpose of the Foundation should facilitate the decision-making procedure, but also exclude all elements of incorrect treatment and of course possible conflict of interest. As regards the support and regional development programme, once again highlighted as a particularly important fact or the fact that in 2005, the Foundation financed 70 citizens' initiatives, 23 partner projects for local community development, 39 projects contributing to democratisation in the development of civil society, 30 institutional support, 34 support for participation in international meetings, 46 multi-annual projects taken over, and a scholarship which should, in particular, highlight the scholarship of three students, but also 25 representatives of associations in education and information programmes in the European Union. Particular attention should be paid to, of course, media projects as well as very successful support and development, promotion of volunteering. Namely, the first national volunteering conference was organised by the foundation in 2004 with an extremely good success. Very valuable programmes should assess the programme of international cooperation and international projects, and should, of course, be particularly highlighted as a very quality information and education programme. It's final. The Croatian Democratic Community's representative club supports only the report. It is a methodological quality made up of a highly transparent, transparent overview of all revenue and expenditure, as well as a list of financial initiatives, projects and research programmes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66379	Thank you very much. On behalf of the PGS Club, SBHS and NDS Mr. Representative Ivo Banac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66380	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Foundation Representatives, colleagues and colleagues. The main report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development in 2005 first and foremost points to a major problem, which is the inability to rely on the resources from the state budget in the long term, given that the funds from this source for the trust are continuously reduced. While 15 million kunas were granted and awarded in 2004, 10 million kunas were granted in 2005, but only about 1.6 million kunas were awarded after the 2 budget rebalances. Finally, only 1.4 million kuna was approved in the 2006 budget. Such a reduction in the funding of the foundation from the state budget as many as 10 times compared to 2004 is an indicative indicator that state institutions do not actually appreciate the contribution of civil society to further development and democratisation of Croatia. It is precisely because of the apparent inability to rely on funds from the state budget with praise that I stress the trust's efforts to achieve financial sustainability only through the introduction of a new model of trust fund management and the effort to establish the necessary sustainability of civil society support in Croatia through the stability of funds. I would also add that a drastic decline in the funding of the foundation indicates that the government does not recognise the importance of this unique model, the creation of a public fund to finance certain activities of public interest, which enables the integration and fertilisation of funds from the state budget and other sources such as international aid programmes and corporate giving. The model of the public foundation is still unknown to us that there is one but not the only reason why the purpose of the foundation lies with the resistance in civil society itself. The public foundation, as well as public television, assumes full political independence in the programme's work, but also a firm control of the realisation of the task entrusted with public interest. I therefore believe that this brave pilot project, unlike any apparent practice so far, should be continuously supported and thoroughly monitored and evaluated in order to see the possibilities for improvement and application of this model in other areas. For example, in the financing of culture, in particular film or some specific social services. However, in this case state institutions do not seem to show any interest in the real implementation of a valuable project based on a public private partnership model. On the contrary, the recognition of the value and potential of civil society in Croatia is one of the elements of the action of the national foundation, which is certainly visible from the report submitted for 2005, which shows active support for civil society organisations both institutional and support for projects within the programme areas of the foundation. The operation of the foundation in the direction of the mission, the promotion and development of civil society has also been seen over the past year and in recent months in the efforts and sustainability to enable the creation of a draft National Strategy to create an incentive environment for the development of civil society, which has been created this time with great involvement and consultation with many civil society actors. And it was these days after the public debate that it was addressed to the adoption procedure in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would further add that this report certainly recognises the commendable transparency and structure of the record of the expenditure of the foundation by which the division of expenditure is visible by regions, associations and projects that are financed, which is certainly an expression of the movement towards a transparent and responsible approach. What would further contribute to this approach would certainly be data, report and evaluation of individual programming areas. In other words, it would certainly be necessary to include in the report information on how the funded projects were implemented, which monitoring system of the foundation is implemented, and which have been the problems and lessons learned for future, as well as examples of good practice. This is precisely one of the main very well-founded objections to the work of the foundation by associations gathered in a forum of civil society. In this way, a transparent and responsible approach would gain its fullness in the work and reporting of the foundation. I would also like to stress that it is commendable that the foundation in the report refers to criticisms that systematically referred to certain prominent associations gathered in the Civil Society Forum, which concern the lack of transparency of the allocation of financial support. The conflict of interest related to the Management Board and the lack of information on the records of the support granted. It is therefore important that the foundation is precisely with a goal, I quote: "Increasing transparency in the process of approving financial support and monitoring the implementation of financial projects, programmes and initiatives during last year has acted by adopting a new Regulation on the conditions and procedure for the allocation of funds for the purpose of the Foundation, by introducing additional mechanisms to prevent possible conflicts of interest and the introduction of a new business-information system. These newspapers provide a commission opening of applications, timely publication of competition calendars, extended time-limits to 60 days, prescribed establishment of special professional and independent bodies to assess applications and formally and tactfully separate application and selection procedures, informative information process, civil society organisation registration, and communication with them during project financing.". This is an example of the courage of a critical step-up association that was not afraid to risk its own position against a potential donor, but also an example of a public institution that was constructively responding to criticism. It is therefore necessary to express respect for associations that have been persistent, independent and articulated in their objections, as well as for the foundation that has introduced systematic changes in its work. Last year's efforts by the foundation to increase the quality of action have produced fruit. Thus, civil society organisations, among other things, assess that the tender procedure is more transparent, application forms are much clearer, and the possibility of information being made in the foundation is being made, and progress is being made in the application assessment process, but further development and the creation of a more sensitive instrumentation is needed. To this end, what civil society organisations continue to see as a space for improvement is certainly the introduction of an independent complaint supervisory authority, because so far it is the only possibility of regretting the board of directors, so the decision-making body, then implementing external evaluation as a necessary mechanism in the work of the public reporting foundation, and continuing programme profiling the trust and narrowing the range of activities towards that profiling. However, what associations certainly point out as necessary is further strengthening of the mechanisms of conflict control of interest. I therefore propose to the foundation to further strengthen and unambiguously determine its procedures for preventing conflicts of interest. It is one possibility for members of the Management Board to make a written commitment when consenting to the term of office, with the approval of their association that their associations will not apply during their term of office for competitions of the trust, in particular for institutional support. Or they may be expected to freeze active membership in the parent association, as well as to assume that they will not transfer the information independently to the associations in the tender procedure, which they may have in the context of the work of the Management Board. I am therefore certainly in favour of the maximum transparency and openness of the foundation for dialogue with associations as the only way of building trust, and of providing a positive example to other public institutions where incarceration in many ways is greater than the foundation. In this respect, I note that the process of decentralisation and regionalisation of financial support under way must lead to the principle of transparency in respecting local needs in order to avoid unnecessary misunderstandings and conflicts with associations. In fact, trust is tested precisely when conflicts occur and differences in understanding certain situations. I believe that, despite or even because of these problems, the activities of civil society in Croatia as well as the foundations as institutions are responsible for its support for the example of a major step towards democratisation, which is unfortunately much less happening in the area of action of other actors, such as political parties and their short circuits to state funding structures. The reduction in the funding of the foundation last year is certainly not good. I therefore believe that, in the conclusion of this debate, the Parliament should highlight the need for systematic appropriate funding of the work of the foundation as a central financing mechanism for civil society in Croatia, with a great potential for self-sustainability, but also valuable innovations in the field of public funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66381	Thank you, dear colleague. On behalf of the HSLS Club, dear colleague Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go, colleague Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66382	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear lady, colleagues and colleagues. Here, let me also make a few remarks on behalf of the HSLS club. What the Annual report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development for the past year is also imploding exactly the visual, and also the content that shows that the persons who put it together have respected this institution and that we have received one and more than a decent report from which there is indeed a lot to read. And on that side, indeed, it's kind of genreically affected, methodologically, and I have to say, I have to show my satisfaction, because unfortunately on this House, we are receiving reports that in some ways represent a mildly spoken insult to this House. With this thank God, it's not that case. As a liberal, I always have to ask myself what would have happened if we had a more developed civil society in Croatia in the '80s, would our transition have been as painful as it was. It is certainly that one of the reasons for all of these many misunderstandings with our transition after the democratic processes of the 1990s are so painful that civil society in the 1980s or the time of that famous Croatian silence actually didn't work in the right way and that, for example, there were no civil society characteristics in some neighbouring republics in the first row in Slovenia, but also I don't know Charter 77 was impossible in the then-Croatian or, say, one Committee for the Defence of Workers or Solidarity, and all of this is actually a strong day for us today. So this is exactly this report that points to one come, I would say that area of everything that happens, it shows that the foundation has not little problems, because as far as I hear it allegedly in Croatia there are more than 29 thousand associations and indeed 29 thousand associations are just showing up on one side and one particular let's say and say a voice, but it turns out that the civil sector can also be a place where many people think it's trendy and that in certain times, our times are exactly like that, in some way it can only live well if an association is established, and then if it insists on getting some money from either the state budget, whether from the urban, county budgets. And I've had these problems myself,... I have to say the problems in the city of Osijek, but if there are over 600 associations in one city, then you know it, and each is looking for anything else 10 square meters of space, it's logically over 6 thousand, and so many cities of Osijek everything that he wanted he couldn't have, and now after the space, there's always that equipment, faxes, and at least one volunteer, but someone you're going to hire and I remember very well that the problems were how to convince them that some other sources of funding that won't just be attached to the budget either city's words, because as soon as you're attached to any budget then you get a little bit dependent. Me so much and no, although this is dramatic, with 15 dropped to 10 million, 30 million from the budget has transferred everything over a million, but I also think that somewhere in the future we should value exactly those associations that are really capable, and that means that this job is doing well, which they themselves know to find the resources that I say will not necessarily rest on any budget. What we would like to point out is that, in future financing, namely this financial Suport, we should just promote these modern values that concern our future, which is now after those problems that we have faced in the aftermath of a situation where I don't know the process of tolerance, dialogue, interethnic reconciliation, learning actually some co-existence, that we should now start to promote these modern values which are related to some new information literacy, which is about learning foreign languages and what is still here when it is given in this very extensive view, it still prevails that the largest number of actual associations are still coming from Zagreb. In Zagreb, however, there is much better living than living in these areas of eastern Croatia or in the areas. You live better, you know, if a city that has over 6.5 billion is a budget somewhere, then there's definitely so much that you indirectly at least multiply it twice and what really a citizen in the city of Zagreb is worth somewhere when you mechanically share it somewhere worth about 5,000 kuna. Go, say, to the end of Osijek, there it falls to about 500, when you look at the budget of the Cepin Municipality, then it's about 500 kuna. I don't know in Osijek it's about two and a half thousand kunas or I don't know in Vukovar if it's a thousand and 200. If it's a thousand and 200, when I was doing the calculations. So, however, this decentralisation for which the trust itself and the associations that are participating in this foundation, they are, then it should be shown like this, that this civil sector should nevertheless be promoted in these very areas that are, and that we have this one evenly and selective approach and that we stimulate precisely these associations that operate in very difficult conditions. No one's going to convince me that I don't know in Western Slavonia we really should say right now, have one paradigm of the 19th century and that education because really in some way learning about these very values that belong to some modernity, urbanity,... We will do whatever you want, yet Zagreb itself is still and well that this is how it works quite well. [[You don't understand.]] And this is what you are, you know, and it's good that in 2005, and it's nice when someone says it's a year of learning, maturing and having this very self-critical relationship, and there's no euphoria that's much better than in 2004 that's been burdened with those fights and nobody's a holy cow and they're not even a civil society association, but it certainly showed that it wasn't so ideal there either. As soon as certain financial resources are rotated, there are always problems. Well, when this kind of money is spinning, and it's not, it's not, it's not, it's all relative, it's not big or small sums, but it's always good to see whether these projects gave you some results and whether they're really not just doing what they're doing, and that we don't really have any control over what's being spent. Here, here on the last page I read "Albert E., Association of Citizens for Transition, Osijek, European Horizons, 300 thousand kuna". I'm really interested in what's been done for these 300 thousand kunas and who, I don't know, are new horizons anywhere, or what that means for the life of an average citizen of the City of Osijek, and not that it really happens to be some of the ways that a whole series of people who in the post-transition didn't get along very well. So it seems to them that through association they can solve both their own and their private or some other frustrations. Unfortunately, there are some of them, but I'm saying, I don't want to believe it. Now, once again, just if in 2006, we liberals would really like to read that these modern values are being promoted, values that somehow show this step and that, indeed, in a symbolic way, we show that the paradigm has changed and that the problems that have plagued us in the 1990s or at the end of the last century, that we are no longer tormented and that indeed our civil society is in the right sense of that word. In particular, those who will have just the strength and skills to actually find sources of funding outside the state budget, or other budgets, by their own quality of their programmes and projects. But anyway, once again, thank you very much for this report. We'll back him up on behalf of the HSS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66383	Thank you very much, dear colleague Kramarić. We're out of clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate. First in line is fellow Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. He's a colleague of Vladimir Stengl's. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66384	I didn't write that bad. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mrs. Foundation Manager, colleagues and colleagues. I have to admit that when I looked at this report just like that, which we are discussing, therefore, according to the annual report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development for 2005, then I remained a little caught up, but not surprised at the knowledge, here are another consumer of money from the state budget, and the question for what purposes. Evidence of this was also a paragraph from the introductory word of the vice-president of the board of directors, and I quote: "According to the visitation of the stands organised by various civil society organisations, which are attended by less than 20 interested citizens", a quote concluded, or as some villains might say, to which more than a few citizens are coming. But when I read the report more carefully, I began to change my mind, although I allow myself certain questions and remarks, but later on. It is significant, in particular, to stress that the financial support programme is implemented through public tenders, that the calendar of all tenders and calls for expressions of interest is published in advance, that the period of application is extended to at least 60 days with all other correct procedures. In particular, one competition that was continuously opened throughout 2005. And what I particularly want to point out is that the expected inability of long-term relying on state budget funds has proved justified, given that the funds from this resource for the foundation are continuously reduced. In 2004. 15 million kuna, out of 10 approved, was found to be 1.6 million kuna and 1.4 million kuna was approved in the 2006 state budget. But there are other sources, gambling and prize games and these amounts are constantly increasing. That's certainly for me for all the praise. I am sure that the criteria for the allocation of funds are well-defined, that is, such that they leave no doubt. That's why the questions I'm asking myself are those I'm asking myself, and they're about users of support from Vukovar-Srijem County. Are certain users, therefore, who received the funds, the result of only certain applications, or the absence of other applications? If that's the case, we might have to worry. Well, let's take the turn. The "Our Community Contribution" programme, the youth peace group... from Vukovar. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the one hand, some of the activities of the association, their actions are commendable, to greet. They bring volunteers from outside and then do certain jobs in the city. However, their behavior in an object in which their behavior is affected is extremely much of a neighbor’s remark and not just a neighbor. I am, as mayor, being addressed by many and many, that the least strange things happen there. So for illustration alone, one of the founders of the association came from Rijeka to Vukovar, according to a personal statement in 1992. I don't just know which way. The European home of Vukovar, their dominant activity is bringing lecturers from Belgrade. This may not be surprising since European House of Vukovar's president lives either in Belgrade or in the village of Boro. That when this association was founded, one plus one was very much considered to be a relationship of nationality. You know, I don't want to, and I wouldn't recommend that Europe enters us from the east, through the east door, that's one thing. And given all that I have said about the European House it would be more appropriate to name it instead of the European House, Vukovar European... Then, the Association Coordination of National Minorities of Vukovar-Srijem County. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The name of the drug-free life initiative. What does that mean? That the institutions in charge of this problem are only fighting for, dealing only with minority individuals or are just minorities. I think they put together a good program for the gentlemen, so it was presented by the trustees, and they're funding it. A special story is a society of people with disabilities in Podunavlje. I must say that the City of Vukovar supported the establishment of this association, financed the work within its capabilities, assigned space and not a small space, a beautiful space, and then very quickly came the problems of funding, when not paying the bills, when bringing in guests who were mostly from Capca. I see in the report that the funds were given to the so-called so-called. The Vukovar Institute for Peace Research and Education and I must say that this so-called The VMO and that this research is conducted by speakers of former Krajina units from the White Manastir and already who knows where, but not from Vukovar. The report says that the most common form of humanitarian activity of Croatian citizens continues to respond to humanitarian actions by telegraphic calls and donations through the Caritas and the Red Cross. What's he saying? So that citizens as well don't have too much trust in some of these associations. I'll give you another example that's probably from the time before this foundation was established. In fact, I was contacted as mayor in 2003 by an association from Zagreb that they have one program to help Vukovar, so that they can present it to us etc. Thanks for all the help and they came and it was about the next one. They would organise a meeting of the city's representatives, so Vukovar and the ambassadors of the Danube countries accredited to Croatia, and then the ambassadors connect Vukovar with the Danube cities. We thanked and said listen to City of Vukovar is a signator of an agreement on the co-operation of Danube cities from Ulm to Delta, this agreement is walking and we even used some help and not a small, primarily from the City of Ulm and you know what they answered us? We got those funds and we have to spend them. Did they spend it in the spas, I don't know about the tambourines, but obviously, or certainly not for the help of Vukovar. This is not all to criticise the work of the foundation, but to point out exactly what is going on, that certain organisations know how to put together programs, so they don't know how to spend them, and some others who may not be skilled at it, but they certainly deserve to get the funds, they don't get the funds. And there's something else that's going on in the civil sector, which is kind of a small door, so no wonder in that number of 20s or how many thousands of these organizations, which is next, and I'm going to quote in favor of it the distinguished parliamentary representative and vice president of this House Mrs. Vesna Pusic, she's not here right now. I read in one of her interviews where she said that the civil sector is just another way of dealing with politics and there's danger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66385	Thank you very much. There's a respected colleague named Vesna Skara Ozbolt. She's gone. He's losing his voice on this subject. Dear colleague Ingrid Antičević Marinović has a word. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66386	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I think this report that lies before us is comprehensive, comprehensive and already this report actually says how right we were when we were, in fact, at the end of October 2003, the National Foundation for Civil Society Development. It is classified as a category of public mixed trusts, such as that, here is to remember and noted in the report itself. And to take advantage of this Report, signify the words of Mrs Mirjana Krizmanic, vice-president of the Management Board, who says that according to the averages of the stands organised and organised by the various civil society organisations to which less than 20 interested citizens are coming, apparently says that civil life in our country is at the beginning, even in the trap and also the words of Mrs Cvetana Plavša Matic, who is just saying that the foundation should respond to the needs and challenges of organised civil society in Croatia and the cooperation of all sectors at all levels of action. However, regrets that many do not understand the role of civil society at all. Still, and this is the opinion of some politicians who feel that the purpose and purpose of the association is only when they encourage exactly their political programme, whether they are opposition when they are against the authorities, and when the authorities are supposed to be quiet, to get some funds and to celebrate and praise the government, in short to be auxiliary wheels of power. However, it is not an association's role. On the contrary. The new civil society and its role are right in the democratisation of the world, and no matter how much any government thinks about itself, how much it contributes to the democratisation of society it is illusory to expect from the authorities, it is the task and role of civil society exactly. That is why many authorities and the fear of civil society, and it is therefore evident that this is the sector of civil society, the association, is clear from the report, and that is what our colleague Ivo Banac said, which has mentioned that it is worrying about a drastic decline in funding by the state, or that the state considers when it already finances, or in the part in which it is being financed, that these associations are also obliged to do so, namely, to directly or indirectly control such associations. Of course there have already been criticism of certain associations, perhaps in general and with law. Not for these reasons, but in any case, I advocate one transparency of the funding of associations, but equally the association is not its president who will then praise the actions of the authorities, and that it has not even contacted its people from the Management Board at all. That's what we've been hearing, and there's still that. And then it appears on behalf of the association, it's about the power of this association, of a large number of its members, that no one has ever called or listened to those members. We all know what we're talking about, but here we have the president of the association who is also the president of the ruling party and he speaks for the association and supports power and praises whatever membership and association opposes such solutions, first of all because no one has asked them for anything. It's nothing but abuse and manipulation of associations. However, the role of associations, both with us and thus we can look to the world of either Europe or around the world, how exactly associations have a very significant influence and role in the advanced monetaryisation of human relations, in one persecution of values, and they have this special role to play to create a new mechanism of public supervision just to preserve human values, solidarity, community, social justice. Especially at a time when the market has become a new totem, a new deity whose invisible hand every day around the world decides who will advance, who will fail in Latin America and around the world to this extent and who will live, who will die. In the new world civil society, organizations are now experiencing their spectacular rebirth. That is why I find it particularly important what is the task and what is the mission and our foundations and individual associations of this very international cooperation. It is a framework where new social movements are created and developed that are needed and for Croatia where unaffirmed roles and structures are confirmed, where new relationships are found between people and among peoples, where the world and society are designed beyond those rigid plans of the dominant dogma and its usual negation. The neoliberal ideology happily flows to the rich to the top and the poor are left without their own ideology. However, it is only a matter of time before civil society enters the historic scene, and therefore our associations and our civil society in this sense need to welcome such a new force in preparation, preparedness. At a time when man's freedom is reduced only to consumer freedom, when his freedom is just limited to the freedom to choose products on the shelves of the supermarket, where labor is left without status and has become to the extreme fragile, he is offered unlimited opportunities throughout his life to cross almost without interruptions from one job to another because he has just globalised capital reduced to his naked functionality. It produces atomized individuals, individuals isolated from each other. So, the state right now, the state does not respond in this sense to solidarity between people and their interesting integration, it sees a great danger that society is far from democracy and that fear and fear are even greater and those individuals isolated from each other are left alone to face large economic, administrative and legal systems alone. There is a great role of association because without them such an individual is truly powerless. We are witnessing this in our society, we see here a few days ago yesterday, yesterday we also discussed the annual report of human rights in Croatia, a report by the attorney general. Thus, a real individual in such conditions and without strong civilian life is essentially light years away from the real values that have been declared in many declarations, human rights conventions. Human rights are growing every day, and every day more and more she breaks. What is the task of civil society is to restore and strengthen individuals. An individual who is not an enemy to each other, who is not a competitor to each other. I would like to remind you that from January 31st to February 5th, 2002, the second World Civilian Forum was held in Puerto Allegre, South Brazil, at 34 degrees Fahrenheit [34 ° C], and most of them were from Europe and Latin America. More than 2,000 social movements, trade unions and NGOs from 88 different countries were represented. The World Social Forum has resisted the fact that a head of state or prime minister is speaking at the meeting. It was just disabled even once by Fidel Castro and the Belgian prime minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66387	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. The final word of Mrs. Cvetana Plavše-Matić's foundation manager. Here you go, ma'am!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66388	Dear Mr. Vice President, honourable MPs and MPs! I thank you for your very constructive suggestions and remarks and of course the praises you had on the methodology and the content of our report itself. What is important and what should be noted is that the evaluation report and the report on the implementation of certain projects of the associations will be an integral part of the 2006 report, given that their reports came in January 1.1th and 15th of this year, and we will take full account of the problems, problems and, of course, giving up on the funding of some projects can inform you in the report for this year because we are seriously and responsibly taking care that the funds we have allocated do not go the wrong way. Of course, mistakes can always happen, and I think that's why the decentralisation process is important for the money that is intended for local projects to be allocated locally, where you know much better what the organizations that this project can do. And I certainly agree that there are three major challenges facing civil society in Croatia. One is the mobilization of private time, meaning new people who will engage in different programmes, as well as private money. So, no more state or local budget than new sources of funds and, of course, new topics that will occupy civil society in Croatia, so I thank you for all the proposals that will certainly be included in the new report for this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66389	Thank you, dear colleague. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this agenda point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66390	Next. Annual report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development 2005. I'm voting on the next conclusion. An annual report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development for 2005 is hereby adopted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 87 votes for, 3 abstentions, the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66391	We move to the next point - Annual report on the work of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency and on the state and achievement of the principles and objectives of the regulation of the telecommunications market in the Republic of Croatia for 2005 in accordance with Article 14. The Telecommunications Act of the Telecommunications Agency has submitted a report. You received the material by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Information, Information and Media and the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. You've also received their reports. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered its opinion. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain the report? Yeah. Mr. Gachin's word is the president of the Telecommunications Agency Council. Here you go, Comrade Gachina!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66392	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. During 2005, the Council of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency sought to create conditions for sustainable development and liberalisation of the telecommunications market with equal conditions for all participants. In its work, the Agency took care to ensure a balance between the interest of users on the one hand and the reasonable return of the operator's investment. Of the most important decisions of the Agency's Council during 2005 which had a significant impact on the development of the TK market, I would like to point out: 13 authorisations for the provision of public voice services have been issued in a fixed network of which two new operators have started providing services. Operators with a significant market power in the relevant markets have been designated with all the consequences and obligations resulting from this. An operator, a provider of basic telecommunications services, has been named for five years, it's T-Com. The users of this basic service are: disabled and socially endangered and the reliefs are in the number of free minutes, connection and resettlement fees. In cooperation with the Ministry of Health and Social Care, we have reached the database of potential users, about 52,000 users. Then the third mobile network operator GSM started working and providing services during October last year. 17 concessions were issued for wireless access to local loops as an alternative for a wire bat. 9 licences have been issued for the rental of telecommunications networks and waterways. A standard offer of access and interconnection to the HT network has been approved to allow new operators to use the infrastructure. The same standard offer twice improved during 2005 in terms of market needs and new operators. A standard offer has been approved on the separation of local loops and co-locations with conditions of use and prices in the 10th month 2005. Made and posted on the Internet, the Agency Plan's website, "Admission of frequencies and tables of radio spectrum". The National Frequency Plan for Digital Television and the proposed adoption of a regional radio-communication conference in Geneva is under way. The conference lasts a month. This is the first conference of such importance after 45 years when a plan for analogue television was adopted in Stockholm in 1961. Therefore, the outcome and results of this radio-communication conference depend on the future of television and digital television. Our experts went ready for that conference. We've agreed to plans with all the neighbors except Italy. As far as Italy is concerned, we highlighted and installed the problem towards the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Negotiations are under way, and our representatives at the Embassy in Rome have had two meetings that have already delivered a certain result. Achievement on the market, therefore these decisions and liberalisation have brought the following effects on the market: the competition has offered a number of new services and tariff packages with an opportunity to choose. An accounting unit has been introduced for 1 second in fixed nets. Synchronising folder users in mobile networks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Reduce the price of service use in all networks. Increase the number of users of broadband Internet access from 23 thousand to 130 thousand. The increase in penetration of users in mobile networks from 64 to 82% and 3.4 million at the end of 2005, which was due to the stagnation of the number of users and the reduction of traffic in fixed networks, as there was a migration of speech from a fixed and mobile network. New operators in fixed nets have gained 5% share in the market. It took two years for an illustration in Austria. It migrates monthly through an operator pre-determining service of 20,000 HT users to new operators. 27 thousand numbers have been transferred through the central transmission number base installed in the immovable network agency. Economic effects from the study of the effects of changes in the prices of services on the TK market on the economy and citizens are made from economic institutes. So objective and exact. The composite index, i.e. the "converted" average of prices on the market for all services, with the converries allocated according to the amount of revenue achieved, is minus 6.4%. While the comparisons, due to the same price of goods and services, were measured by the consumer price index on average, increased by 3.3%. The increase in investments in the telecom industry is 30% and the total gross income of the telecom industry has increased by 10%. Since international activities, the Croatian Telecommunications Agency was admitted to a full membership of an independent regulatory group last November and as an observer in a European regulatory group composed of all national regulators in telecommunications plus candidate countries. In this way we are allowed to participate in plenary sessions. They were Brussels, Paris, Vienna and working groups and contact groups. Access to the database and all trends present in the telecom industry in European countries. Of course, international activities include everything I said about the radio conference, then bilateral co-operation with national regulators in neighbouring countries, with Sweden, Austria, Slovenia and Romania and early this year, although it was not in last year it began with the work of the Southist Europe Forum and which is now on track in Ohrid. Something about protecting the user. I want to say that over the past period, because because of the monopolies position, which is because we didn't have the right councils, users were often on the wind of the operator, the abuse of all kinds. The abuses in the telecom industry are very present everywhere. The motives are great. Very sophisticated and different ways of abuse at the expense of end-users. However, for the purpose of resolving disputes between providers and users of TK services regarding the amount of debt and the quality of the service provided in December 2005, the Board of Users was established as an advisory body of the Agency involved in dispute settlement, as well as other matters relating to the protection of the rights of users of public telecommunications services. In addition, in the general conditions for the provision of TK HT services, we have established a binding legal framework for the protection of users who have started, which has started to be applied in a way of advertising and risk numbers with a minimum obligation to update them once in six months or if necessary. Limiting the establishment of calls towards certain telecommunications services and destinations, blocking calls towards harmful car dealers, limiting consumption on the request of users, etc. From the financial report, I just want to highlight a few relevant data. The income of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency under the law and the collection of funds was 66 million. 30 million more revenue is allocated above the expenditure of 36 million and revenues to the state budget based on concessions and use of radio frequency spectrum in 2005 amounted to 364 million kuna. As far as income and expenditure differences are concerned, I must say that the Agency's financial plan was approved only on 22 July last year and we failed to realise our investments regarding the protection of radio frequency spectrum and these are construction facilities on control stations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66393	Thank you, dear colleague Gachina. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. A representative of the government? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First on behalf of the HSP Club, respected counterpart Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66394	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative and Vice President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66395	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Gachina. Let me immediately refer to one issue that is present in our own and in the international public, especially with the professional bodies of the European Union, which is that there is no political will in Croatia in the liberalisation of the telecommunications market. First of all, it is difficult to reconcile with such an assessment for the simple reason that, among other things, the amendments to the Telecommunications Act in 2005, and by that law, we have ensured the liberalisation of the telecommunications market and ensured and demonstrated the political will to implement it. Secondly, what we would also like to point out during the debate on the last report for 2004, 25 January 2002 and before that and 2002, we have also reached conclusions of the Croatian Parliament which say very clearly, quote: Build cheap, fast and secure infrastructure, create an information and telecommunications market with direct competition in providing new services and attract new companies from this area. Realising the liberalisation of the telecommunications market as soon as possible. Therefore, the political will is shown by legislation, expressed by the conclusions reached by the Parliament, and in this respect the question is actually asked whether the Agency has difficulties or lacks sufficient knowledge and experience and the power to carry out the political will that is legal and which is secured through this Assembly. I think we need to talk about this for the simple reason we can no longer discuss that there is no political will. It is known that political will is being expressed, but the question is actually who has power in this country if such political will cannot be done. Then it's something else, then we have to discuss the functioning of administrative systems, and in such a situation we have to set very clearly some things. Another thing that we at the club have to make clear. In the very conclusions of this report, I quote: At the end of 2005, the situation on the market was the following: 3 fixed network operators providing services, 12 fixed network operators that are not yet commercially active, 3 mobile network operators and 2 mobile network operators providing services, 17 concessions for local wireless access,... the provider of services by renting telecommunications lines, 9 providers of telecommunications network rental services and parts thereof, 37 providers of internet access services, etc. etc. etc. [[You don't understand.]] And now it's just a matter of itself, and why it's not working. If all this were to work, there would be competition, and there would be market liberalisation, and it would also be quite clear that market liberalisation would not only be reduced, that it would be monitored only through a reduction in the price of using all services, because ultimately this position shown on page 44 by the Agency itself contradicts the view on page 43, where market liberalisation implies creating equal and transparent conditions for new operators and providers for equal market access, opening up the option for the user to choose an operator according to wishes, etc. etc. taking into account the provision of good quality telecommunications services at an acceptable price. So we know what we want. The political will has been expressed, it has been regulated given the legal instrument as it should be done, the question arises why it is not realised. Why don't the existing monopolies actually break down? One of the reasons that Tadic also mentioned on behalf of the HSP club is the issue of distribution telecommunications sewers or cabals located in the canals. Be careful after 92, 28.12.92. we passed the Law on the System of Local Self-Government for the first time and in all subsequent amendments and additions to these laws it is prescribed that the property and property located in the local self-government units are in their possession, of course, if they are not privatised before or if they have not received another legal owner. The fact is that the area where the channels in which the distribution telecommunications sewerage is located are not privatized, and the fact is that we need to discuss this situation and give the right, so if you want the State Office for the State Administration would have to become our units of local self-government to actually request compensation for that part and to make concession decisions to the operator and to give or possibly provide services via leases, etc. etc. But what needs to do to liberalise the market happens. Anyone who wishes to serve in the provision of telecommunications services and needs to be allowed the right to go through that channel. It can't be and can't be allowed to actually allow anyone through the system to enable a monopoly. If that happens, then not only does there not have the liberalisation of the market but it actually raises the question of who dictates the condition and flow of information and not only information but also mutual communication in this country. For this reason, we at the SDP Representatives Club believe that this is one of the most important tasks of the Agency and that the Agency, together with the State Administration Office and together with the cities and municipalities of ours through which these channels cross, should actually take all measures to do so. Of course there's something else to ask. Whether or not it is necessary to contain the Deute Telekom and Croatian Telekom monopoly in Croatia today. It is obvious that the state will need and by amending the law to open up the possibility that optical cables that are not only owned by Croatian roads, then owned by Railways, etc. as well as Croatian TV, they actually put into office and, among other things, that they can be used for telecommunications services. Why would there be 3 or 4 mobile operators, for example? I can be more, now we have 3 of which 2 do. The third should function, but why not be 5 and 7, etc., so citizens will choose who and who, whose offers from the quality of services through the price will be practically defined for use. And it definitely needs one form of tax or imposition. This could not be called tax, but it is imposed, abolished in Croatia as well as everywhere in the European Union countries. There is simply no possibility of paying a flat-rate subscription if you provide such services. This should definitely be abolished, the Agency in that segment must take measures, and of course it opens the question, in fact, in which way and how in the calculation prices will address it. We finally managed to get the monopolies to move on to the accounting unit as a second. But now the question is, what about all the other things, and how should we ensure, for example, further things? And we have examples of doing some things that are absurd to that extent that actually a man wonders if it's possible, but the fact that he seems to be. Among other things, if you want the situation to be very simple, for example if it wants to change our disabled position to lose, changes in operators, they, as is known, have the right to a discount on subscription and up to 50%. But if the operator changes, he loses his disability, he loses his right. To what right does HT operator have the right to abolish the right that he gained from the title of disability, not from the title of subscription because he accepted it as an operator? Obviously, such things should definitely be cleared up, that the agency must take action because it is not just an incurring relationship between operators but also a question of relations between and the exercise of citizens' rights. It is particularly interesting to ask a question related to the abuse of the dominant market position in the approach among other local... The agency started with a local... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] that it opens up access and extends the possibility, but it is not close enough and these issues must be sharpened and must be secured in a different way because the fight against monopoly must result in both local loop and distribution, telecommunications sewerage with the right to all place in the channel a possible distribution network, and, of course, the units of local self-government the right to participate in the part of the profits that is achieved, using their space to realize that part. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, it is quite interesting to discuss and the question of access to the market by earning optimization of traffic management. We actually have a situation that T-HT and Vipnet, practically or T-mobiles if you want, have prices relative to market access actually 40 to 50% more favourable than others have. But of course, that's not what consumers feel, but it's what they make extra profit on. Such a situation raises the question of what the Agency will do because it is quite clear that a monopoly position that is also present in relation to these houses follows. The truth for his will has begun to weaken, but it is not even close to being compared or better said, if it is continued at such a pace as we have been doing since 2002 after the Parliament's conclusion, after the law, then in 2005 after the amendment and addition of the laws that are in line with these conclusions. If we continue like this, it will take us the next 10 years, 15 years to complete market liberalisation, and at the same time to get the para-tax donations through, say, these subscriptions to be abolished and abolished, etc. In addition, a very serious issue arises, not only of ownership structures but also of public-private relations in this segment when it comes to telecommunications, i.e. provision of services. Therefore, we believe that the Agency must take action to raise these issues as soon as possible and that they must definitely be brought into a situation that requires a truly modern market approach. Of course, it's very important to have political support here. Not only in legislative legislation now, but our Agency must know that the Croatian Parliament is behind it. Therefore, he did not declare this through political conclusions, etc., nor legislative legislation but imperative legislation requires it to be implemented. Therefore, the Agency in that segment must have a completely different position. And the third thing, which would do, appeal, deliberately use the word to appeal, is the question of possible disputes to be resolved quickly in competent places. It cannot be bickered through newspapers, the holders of a monopoly function in telecommunication communication in relation to other operators, in relation to the state and the public sector, calling it minors as partners, and at the same time the issue does not end where it is due to end in court and to be resolved. I think the time has come to talk clearly about it and no matter what the price. You can't calculate here whether we're going to sell on this or that stock, and at the same time, I'm actually going to pay citizens with a bad service and a constant monopoly that sucks money out of their pockets. That's not working. That's not working. On one side, the state will get a slightly higher stock price. In the long run, all of us as citizens we represent or who we are the substrate of this country will lose. Therefore, we must ask that these disputes be settled with Deutsche Telekom and that, in fact, according to the ownership structure and what belongs to the companies or which could have gone into the conversion of Deutsche Telekom, there is no doubt at all. I don't doubt at all that the cables in the channels of Croatian telecommunications went to privatisation, etc., but I am sure that no municipality, no city made a special decision by which it sold the land through which it would pass. It's just not like that. So it's about service, it's about such opportunities, and it needs to be definitely cleared up, it can't be talked about this way. In addition, it is necessary to reach out to those agreements that exist between the Republic of Croatia and Deutsche Telekom on their obligations to modernise telecommunications in Croatia. In such a situation, I claim that Deutsche Telekom is much more obliged to us than we would have had to do as a state to Deutsche Telekom on the other hand. And on the other hand, we have to tell ourselves that we should no longer profit from Telekom in order to cover general and common consumption for a simple reason because this enables Deutsche Telekom to export its profits from Croatia and that it does not have to implement those obligations that it has in relation to the modernisation of the telecommunications market in Croatia. And which is very, very important for the post-industrial development of the country as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66396	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Attorney Walter Poropat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66397	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable President of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency, colleagues and fellow MPs. By establishing the Agency for Telecommunications as well as the Competition Protection Agency, along with some other agencies which have proved to be a positive shift in the liberalisation of the market in the Republic of Croatia, I believe that on this very plan, telecommunications is exactly what the Telecommunications Agency is expecting from us and from the users of telecommunications services. By amending and supplementing the Telecommunications Act and new sublaws, the Agency has contributed to liberalisation, in particular in the area of the use of access to local loops, simplification of access to the telecoms market and the use of new alternative access technologies, strengthening competition and preventing abuse of superior positions, more effective protection of telecommunications users and creating conditions for the start of work of digital television transmission. Market liberalisation implies creating equal and transparent conditions for new operators and service providers for equal market access, opening up the user's option to the operator's source according to the desire to lead the account to ensure good quality of telecommunications services at an acceptable price. By decision to grant consent for the standard HT offer for access services to the local loop provided by the Agency with extensive changes and additions, the Agency has created preconditions for new operators for full access to the end-user. The isolated local loop allows operators to use the full frequency spectrum of local loops together, and the use of local loops, i.e. a subscription line, is of key importance to all telecommunication market participants and is the basis for the development of broadband networks. The arrival of new operators on the public voice market in the immovable network will largely depend on the success of further realisation of local looping. I would like to say and confirm that at the end of 2005, the market situation was next. Three fixed network operators providing services and 12 fixed network operators that were not commercially active, 3 GSM and DSS mobile network operators and 2 UMTS mobile network operators providing services, 17 wireless access concessions to local loops, 9 providers of telecommunications line rental services, 9 providers of telecommunications network rental services and parts thereof, 37 providers of internet access services to ISP, 34 speakers of speech transmission services via the internet VOIP and 23 providers of cable distribution services. I am referring to this because it is evident that the liberalisation of the telecommunications market is slowly and in a certain way, so to speak. What is also important is that a board of telecommunication service users is established as an advisory body of the Agency which participates in the settlement of disputes between providers and service users and also performs other tasks relating to the protection of the rights of users of public telecommunications services. My colleagues and colleagues, today I think it's a good time to look back on what we're looking at, for example. Iscona that happened a few days ago and ended up just yesterday buying Iscona by THT. If it is true that the President of the Council of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency has made it clear that all legal means will be used to prevent the abuse of a dominant position and will ensure an effective and sustainable competition with equal opportunities for all market participants, namely in the competition, it was stated in the tender documentation that bid applicants for Vimax must not have a contract or any other form of agreement for the establishment of a public TK network and services, which act in order to reduce competition. Iscon's Vimax concession for Zagreb County The Agency intends to return to the process. If the words are correct, Mr. President, then they are very important positions of the regulatory agency and in this example will show how much the Croatian Telecommunications Agency needed and that its establishment was very important. Finally, I want to believe that the Croatian Telecommunications Agency, together with the Council of Telecommunications Consumers, will have the knowledge and strength to support colleagues who have said and political support, especially this High House, that there will be no monopoly on the Croatian telecom market and that users will be in a position to pay telecommunications services at real prices for good quality and what is also important without a flat-rate subscription as usual in the countries of the European Union. What I would also like to mention here, I have read the bill sent by counterpart Tadic about the telecommunications sewerage. I consider it one of the people who worked a lot on the infrastructure in local self-government that these are very important and very important things. In fact, the telecommunications sewerage is certainly owned by units of local self-government because local self-government units built it themselves, and the cables and what telecommunication companies are using are quite different things to talk about here. So, what's important is that the telecommunication sewerage legally to be entered into by the unit of local self-government that built it, so I believe it shouldn't have been possible to think about signing a contract with Deutsche Telekom before, probably, as it did in the City of Split. I expect that the telecommunications agency, together with the Telecommunications Service Users' Council, will be involved in the realisation of these problems which will benefit the units of local self-government, or those who have done them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66398	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, distinguished representative Milan Meden.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66399	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. President of the Council, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Under the Law on Telecommunications, which came into force since 2003, the then Council for Telecommunications was abolished, and the Croatian Telecommunications Agency was appointed. The agency was founded only in September last year, so with a delay of about a year and as a reason you can always stress some administrative procedures but also probably the interestingness of the telecom market as we had the opportunity to hear in these discussions of our colleagues in front of clubs. In fact, the most important role of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency is to create competition and protect users on the telecom market. The agencies will succeed in their work when they create actually ideal competition. It's actually a key role of the agency. What is the situation on the Croatian telecom market today? The Croatian market today weighs 12.7 billion kuna, which means approximately 13% of the budget, of which 40% is achieved in the fixed network and 53% in mobile networks. For Croatian occasions, I will agree that this is a huge potential that has a fundamental impact on the overall economy and on the users in general. Data show that from January to March, citizens in three of our mobile networks spent about 854 million minutes, so in mobile networks while at the same time in fixed networks this fell by about 12.5% and compared to last year. However, this should not concern Croatia in particular because trends are actually present in Europe. The Agency further predicted in its report growth in mobile telephony, a wide-ranging internet of the so-called The popular DSL. But what is the situation here in Croatia? In Croatia only about 3% means its users benefit from DSL while in the European Union it is only 25 and it is certainly a data that is somewhat worrying about the current situation on the Croatian telecom market but it is precisely the disseminating of the local loop we have been listening to that should also encourage DSL growth. Furthermore, the report also described SNP operators or so-called SNP operators. ... operators with significant competition. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The area of fixed network is defined by the Croatian Telecom while it is in the Duopol mobile network between T-Mobile and VIPs while Tele-2 easily with 6% enters the market and in this way we can consider that the mobile market is mostly already fully regulated. On the market services offering in the rental of telecommunications water or as we heard here DTK was declared as Croatian Telecom with SNP operator with SNP operator. It is on this subject that much is said here today, and otherwise there is a lot of talk in public, new laws are proposed, the concept of privatisation and cable sewerage is explained, what was and what was not in the balance sheet etc., etc. Also through the media are explained in different ways the procedures of these privatisations and contracts. First of all, for Croatian media is not a novelty. In the media, at the same time, some cities are declared property, others are preparing such laws and therefore bench marks or comparisons with other European cities. In this legally unregulated system, we are actually wondering who is profiting and who is losing, which is actually the next part of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency. You'll agree, in fact, with me that everyone is losing at this point, first of all to the state for the credibility that should be legally confirmed. We have heard that this home will certainly provide political support. Infrastructure owners, regardless of who they really are or who are defined, are actually losing because they do not charge illegally drawn cables regardless of who their owner is, loses local administration which does not fully charge the right of service. And ultimately, the biggest loss of therefore Croatian citizens or users is because they are very likely to receive more expensive services of equal value or rather receive for the same price much less quality services. Very often there are also definitions "We will fight with all means to make something happen or something not to happen."but that's certainly not enough for a regulation. Discussions and media bickering also lead to nothing and we also had the opportunity to hear in the recent Telekom Arena held in April this year as those competitors behave. They mainly point fingers, according to the Croatian Telecom and the Croatian Telecommunications Agency, and it is indicative that they hardly ever mention the company's name but only talk about the monopoly all the time. So it surprises the fact that in this way people who run telecom companies can express themselves even though they once sat on key roles in the state government and participated actively in the privatisation, both of the first and second privatisations of the Croatian Telecom. You will agree with me that the no-argumental callings are anyway two media everyday and showing falseness for the purpose of insult is certainly not a level that should be expected at special gatherings. On the other hand, it's clear that the operators who paid... or the concession wants a clean situation and an advantage on the market. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Reality is something different. Our telecom market is liberalised and in practice it is shown that some processes cannot take place overnight but still need to be well worked out in order to have appropriate effects. The agencies will succeed in their work when all operators with significant market shares, such as in the United States, disappear on the Croatian market. When competition is created on the market, therefore ideally, it means extra offers where customers will accept the price these operators offer. In such circumstances, operators will actually compete for the price and the user will accept it or not accept it. At that time, the Agency's annual reports in this home will not be necessary because competition will rule, not lawlessness and monopoly as it is called here. But the Croatian agency needs a very clear strategy. The Croatian Telecommunications Agency actually needs to choose those activities with which it will be able to create a sustainable advantage for all market operators. The sustainable advantage rises in a way that our customers... delivers a higher value than those of other operators for the same price or equivalent quality at a lower price. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The agency also awarded a concession as we heard here for... in the area of five counties, but the rest is an open question actually for a concession Flash... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Technology in the Zagreb area for a wide explanation... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] in a 410 megaherz spectrum. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In future time, I will also point out that this agency has made a significant step in DVT regulation means digital television. However, in any case, this agency should show its skills and strength in the match against the Italian administration. In fact, the European Union has set us up with 49 channels for digital television, but the Italians again account for thirty of these channels, so we have a situation that was the same in analogue television. The fact is that here the agency should step forward strongly through all international institutions. And finally development in the field of information society and... It must be a practice for the telecom sector as a whole, because it is the only way to ensure development in the future. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the HDZ Club will support the Agency's report. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66400	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, distinguished representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66401	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. President of the Agency, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party considers that such agencies are therefore regulatory bodies on this and in all other areas of crucial importance for the creation of competition, the breakdown of monopoly, the reduction of prices and, of course, the quality of services that citizens will have in, therefore, all of these segments where such regulatory agencies exist. And precisely because we feel how important it is that we must say that we cannot support this report because from this report are actually the fundamental things that the objectives of this agency's work show that they have not actually been achieved. If you look at what it says in the introduction of this material, which is that the Agency's activities were aimed at further liberalising the telecommunications markets in Croatia and at maintaining and promoting effective and sustainable competition, as well as at encouraging market access to new service providers and at preventing abuse of a dominant position. And if you know what the structure of today's telecommunications market in the Republic of Croatia is then it is clear that these fundamental objectives have not been achieved. And not just that. Unfortunately, in this report, we have no basic data. The basic data would be the proportion of individual operators in the fixed network and in the mobile network. We don't have that kind of basic information in a network like this. The basic data then show the extent to which the schedule is, competition and then the work of the agency in recent years has been successful, and to what extent it has been unsuccessful. We know from the media that the relationship, for example, in the field of fixed telephony is about 90% or more, the service is provided by the Croatian Telecom, so 1 operator. About 6% of the second, and the third reportedly is still entering active, active labor. So if that's the kind of relationship, then there's no point in saying that we've achieved the breaking of the monopoly, the diversification of the offer, and of course the quality and the price and so on. I assume that the agency's report on the fact that there has been an increase in quality and that there has been a decrease in prices that it is a credible report, even if it is good to have comparisons with those prices. But when we talk about prices, it should be noted that the price drop of only 6.4% in the complete area covered by this report, so in the entire telecommunications area, it is absolutely not enough. According to some information, telecommunications services in the Republic of Croatia are more than twice as expensive as in neighbouring countries. This is usually the case when we have such inscriptions in our media. This is usually about mobile telecommunications services. And therefore a 6.4% drop over one year is not enough. So the market actually didn't work the right way. It would be good to have comparable data here what is the price of telecommunications services, the same telecommunications services in the Republic of Slovenia, Hungary, neighbouring countries and others, Italy, for example, in the Republic of Croatia. We don't have that data here. But I say very often we will meet in our media that the average of our services is two or more times more expensive than it is in those countries that we can compare with. Otherwise, some very interesting data should be noted. According to one data, only the profits of all telecommunications service providers in the Republic of Croatia are higher than the total cost of drug consumption in the Republic of Croatia. It's also about our relationship to telecommunications, about spending money that's not necessarily spent, but it's a real fact. It would be good if we had something to talk about. So only the profits of these operators are greater than the total consumption of medicines in the Republic of Croatia. You have a lot of households, I can't boast, I must say that mine is one of those in which the price of telecommunications services is therefore all possible fixed numbers, parents' phones, children's phones and so on is greater than all other monthly expenditures of Croatian households. Bigger than energy, so all kinds of energy, water and so on. Of course, we are going back to the question of how we treat money, but if these prices were lower, and I think they might and should be lower then the situation here would probably be more favourable to our budgets, and, of course, our discipline and our relationship with it, spending something we do not necessarily have to spend, it will always remain a challenge for us, and it is a private relationship and it is a private problem for anyone who faces this problem. And a few more highlights from this report. It is said that when it comes to basic telecommunications services, then it is said that "Croatian telecom" d.d. It is also said that in this special, special status "Croatian Telekom" and any other person who would receive that status must offer special offers for the needs of socially endangered layers. There's not a word here, is that what happened? Is "Croatian Telecom" really in line with the regulation adopted by the agency whether it has given Croatian citizens a special access to weaker property, that means simply cheaper access to telecommunications services? There's not a word about it here. And it's also said and, of course, it's hard to know. As far as I know, there's no special approach. A colleague, Arlovic, spoke about special privileges for disabled people. If that's it, then that's fine. But it's not part of this rulebook. This is about particularly socially endangered categories, and disabled people could be or are only one of those categories, so it would be good if we heard something about it too and it's said that such an operator who has this special status and this special status is actually talking about some kind of protection of the largest population, and that's why it's being treated in particular. It is said that in every village, such an operator would have to have every five hundred inhabitants per phone booth. Just remember what you have in your neighborhoods and you'll find that's not true. There's only one phone booth in my neighborhood of three and a few thousand people, and according to the regulations, there should be five of them. Therefore, even in that sense, it does not appear that the conditions laid down by the rules are met, and this report does not speak much about it either. And another very important provision that an appropriate number of speakers should be for people with disabilities, for their access, for the possibility of communication by ensuring both access and of course appropriate comfort. As far as I know, there's not a word either. All these speakers are standardised, except for access in any other way, not adapted to disabled persons, and of course a little more should be talked about. So, in the end, I sum up what I said at the beginning. These are very important regulatory bodies. They are therefore important in order to protect against monopolies, for the sake of service quality, to protect consumers, to reduce price. I think that in the Republic of Croatia, however, there is a dominant political will to make the positions no difficulty, but reports of such bodies on such an important issue must be much more precise. It must be possible to see the answers to a lot of questions that I have asked here, and there are no such answers in this report and that is why we support the principle work of such regulatory bodies not only in the field of telecommunications but also elsewhere. But a report like this that doesn't respond to a fundamental problem, and we know, in fact, that the fundamental goal has not been achieved, we can't accept such a report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66402	Thank you. In the name of the HSS Club, the distinguished representative of Zvonimir Sabati.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66403	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Gachin, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here at some point it would be easy to speak after the presentation of my colleagues to the HNS Club, but Mr. Honorable Representative Rados took a lot from me in fact. But I'm still going to repeat some things because it seems to me that we need to determine on behalf of the clubs whether we support or do not support this report, which is not right to point out the shortcomings, so here I might add a little bit to what has not been said so far. In fact, if we look at this report first of all, I want to say that it really isn't complete. There is not enough data and each of us, if you carefully read this report, will have no matter how much or not there is a whole series of questions to which there is no answer in the report. I won't say, repeat what the predecessor said about the operator's shares in the fixed or mobile or mobile network. But definitely this report isn't easy to read for every MP. We can say that's the kind of area that's actually complemented from month to month with new services based on new technologies. But believe me, MPs who are very careful to read the reports must know what this is about. So it needs to be more liquid and readable, a simpler dictionary written. So, except there's not enough data I'd like to say that it's not available by the content of every representative of this House of Commons. I must also say when I read it carefully and when we discussed it at the Croatian Peasant Party's Club that we have come to the realization that there is not enough information on which we might be able to get an immediate answer. Not about the contests or the actions that have been carried out. Finally, what may seem to me is the biggest observation we expect in such a single report and certain agency positions, and the agency is ultimately a regulatory body that plays a very important role and views on the development and application of telecommunications technology, the liberalisation of the telecommunications market, about competition. So, the protection of national interests, but also the protection of public goods. A local self-government unit was also said about state-owned companies. In particular, however, the agency is expected to act on a reduction in the price of services in any telecommunications network. Unfortunately, I am one of the users of all these services or most of those services standing here in the report and I must say that the prices paid by my family are multiplely higher than the prices of all other services the household pays. Unfortunately, the needs are enormously high. The possibilities are also high. The challenges are ahead of us, and we love challenges and use all the opportunities that are available to us. But it is best if a person reads a report like this that I do not say many answers to read either the conclusion or the introduction. The introduction is kind of too modest, but the conclusion gives some information, but I'd say only those the agency wants to present to the representatives. The activity of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency last year, which focused on further liberalisation of the telecommunications market in the Republic of Croatia, is also mentioned. But it also mentions what was done in this area? Therefore, the agency has contributed to liberalisation especially in the area of the use of access to local loops. There are a few sentences about it written, whether or not it's about... Or VIMAKS, anyway. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But you don't write much about it anymore. What is the position of this agency? What do you do to protect? Can the antenna system create a system of protection that all my students want already and now use in any area? Simplifying access to the telecommunications market, I'm not sure this can stand. And the use of new alternative access technologies. This is true, we can either talk about DSL technology as a serious competitor to certain wireless or internet services. Market liberalisation implies creating equal and transparent conditions for new operators and service providers. It's just not true. This shows here yesterday and predecessors, counterpart Tadic and counterpart Poropat also spoke about ISKON. I personally know these people, because it is between me and the profession, so I can say that it is not very useful for the Republic of Croatia. And we know what the tendencies are. This is more or less all through the media or from some basic education or by reading we know what new technologies mean, which means the development of telecommunications and services on these new technologies. The pathways of the digitalisation process, the possibility of technological integration of sound or speech services, however, of data transfer, I would say is too little to talk about documents, because the transfer of documents will almost be more dominant than classical data. Although it can be mentioned that this data transfer can include the transfer of documents and the transfer of immovable or mobile images or video. Of course, we must support this trend, but we must also make sure that because of this telecommunications or the most dynamic market in the Republic of Croatia and because of investment and because of the extremely high profits, we must be very careful about what is happening in this area. I will not particularly talk here about the content of this report, as certain procedures or useful shifts are mentioned which occur in the area of immovable networks from an analogue phone mobile network which is definitely the number of subscribers in decline and that is in itself understood. The general question is how to use the existing telecommunications industry. And it's a good thing it started with some activities, first of all with digitization activities. This is very useful, from ISDN through wide-ranging access to the Internet via DSL technology. But I will also look back here on this existing telecommunications infrastructure that exists. I'll give an example... Telecom. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Believe me personally I have had the opportunity to participate in the development of this project in the area of Varazdin County. I personally saw the difficulties facing man only with the desire to use this telecommunications infrastructure, from the Croatian Railways, Croatian Roads and how many problems he has. That's where the agency should play a significant role. If we are already talking about liberalisation, if we are talking about equal or how it was said to be similar to that market, then it should also be possible for these new people who are engaged, or who want to deal with this area, both locally or in local areas to get equal conditions. As far as mobile networks are concerned, we can all agree together that the number of subscribers or users in total regardless of whether they are pre-paid or pre-paid, however, is extremely growing and that is the trend and trend in the world, so we are part of it, and here we agree with you in the conclusion that we are not much behind on these services in Europe. And surely that this competition that appears here with 3 operators in the mobile network accessible, present, certainly benefit us as end-users or end-users and as a reduction in service prices, but certainly through an increased offer of different useful services. That's right. It's just that there's work to be done to make the price of these services as cheap as possible. You also mentioned a tender for the 4th mobile operator. It certainly carries a further reduction in those prices we are talking about, I suppose, and an increase in these services. However, I had liked to take such things as are often of national interest and a little more transparent water. We don't know much about these tender procedures, and it wouldn't be good if it came out again in the inscriptions to cancel out because I don't know what reason it would not be for all of us to be honored. Which is really where I expected you to write something a little bit more, but let's say, it's a new technology, and you mentioned ADSL. Surely the broadband data transfer or ADSL using an existing phone line for this data transfer and using, of course, digital technology and you specified advantages. But I'd still ask here why there's no mention of the user's connection to ADSL services. In fact, I don't know how much you all get to know each other together, but in some small settlement you can use the ADSL services you have to get 16 signatures to join the ADSL service of course. Well, I think we should work this out more easily. What's with the procedure? Well, that's unnecessary. And finally, given that much is said, I will say that it is good that the Council for the Protection of the Rights of users has formed and that this Council should really protect the end-user. It is our wish that this liberalisation that is being implemented is nevertheless very transparent, that national interests are protected, that telecommunications infrastructure is used as a public good, it is very important, and that existing owners, so counterpart Tadic also mentioned about the optical systems related to Croatian roads and Croatian railways as well as the maximum control that such infrastructure in the ownership of private operators would not come, and I'm afraid that everything I've talked about together, we've singled out, we've all done that infrastructure together from channels, etc. and the state of Croatia is to remind you when the minister was still Mr. Mudrinic, how much investment was made in optical systems and now that we've created it all together, it would be good for us to benefit from that too. Here's the thing about all this together I have to say that I personally, and even the HSS club isn't in... satisfied with your report, we expected more readable text, more absolutely and expected you to give far more significant views in this report that the Agency in some way supports and which the Agency wants to apply through its work. [[You don't understand.]] Here's why we're going to see this together, based on your answers, whether we're going to support or not, but I'm saying we'd like to see a more readable text in the future, and that there's a lot more information that we don't need to ask ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66404	Thank you. On behalf of the HSLS Club, Honorary Representative Zlatko Kramarić. I'm sorry, Mr. Madden, the correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66405	Here's a few corrections to the incorrect quote of the esteemed representative Sabati. On several occasions, he said that the report is incomprehensible and incomplete, in fact, I can personally say that this report is comprehensively very detailed, and if a representative is interested in a reduced scope, there is a conclusion that is more than clear. It further says that there are no views in the report if we are talking about the report, so there must be results and not attitudes. It mentions some events that are... on the dynamic Croatian market this year say they are not present in this report, of course there are not when we talk about last year's report. He's talking about getting involved... You need to collect 16 signatures or something like that, which is not true. [[You don't understand.]] Where one of the operators has installed DSL equipment, so someone can include it and the Agency is very clear that at this time in Croatia it means 3% of the people involved in DSL while in the European Union 25. And you also said that the fourth concession for GSM operator will cut prices, and at the same time you forget that this agency has issued a concession twice, no interest, which means that investments are too big for such a serious business to simply... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66406	Thank you. In accordance with Article 207, the time for the individual hearing has expired. Please, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66407	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Gachina, colleagues and colleagues. Maybe unlike these last few speakers, we'll take another route. We actually make mistakes in the steps first and then we try to correct those mistakes and then we don't blame those who made them, but those who now have a hard task of selling you a whole series of possibly bad estimates that happened there at the end of the '90s when we sold the family silver so easily. And this is exactly the easy sale there at the end of the 1990s when it was obviously supposed to be filled in in such a way of budget, although this and the manipulation of this sale of family silver was not only a feature of one government but it, this sale continued and later, shows in fact all the situation in which we live and on the one hand a lack of courage, a lack of vision, and then it turns out that whoever bought this family silver that only with one small price correction has returned it all back and not only returned it but it is really starting to earn very well, that one of the most profitable companies in Croatia is certainly Hrvatski Telekom and Deute Telekom. So we actually went there at the end of the '90s to dramatically increase the price of telecommunications services, and here we are now somewhere in 2005/2006. We need to find out now, find additional ways to cut these prices, and then there's this agency that's headed by Mr. Gachin. And that's actually the real fact that I'm telling you today we're facing, and I don't think it's that bad, that this agency is actually showing a lot of effort to make this very situation that happened there by that first bad assessment try to correct it. This is given and it is obvious that there is a calm on the market and that this agency has its function and that some of its decisions actually go to what counterparts Radoš or Sabati said were indeed one of the largest items in family budgets are precisely items for telephony. We now have a custom, our culture of life changes, so when a child goes to school then he gives his cell phone, and now if he's in the house, there's no one in the house who doesn't have a cell phone, I almost creep out when I read the information in the paper after Christmas, New Year, Easter, how much we spent on SMS and similar messages. This really shows that what we can't say is that life means we treat ourselves very lightly, but we will, indeed, have an objection to the price of water, to the price of garbage, so for electricity, gas, we are very sensitive here, and according to telecommunications, that is, to these telecommunications services, we treat ourselves quite lightly. What I have to advocate as a liberal is every time I hear the word "liberalization", "demberalisation" is something I'm glad to do, whatever it is, and which actually shows that these values become and our standards under which we can no longer go, and really there's no point in insisting on market principles unless there's an institutional framework that's exactly going to regulate that market in any way. And all the transitions that have forgotten that there should be an institutional framework, institutions that must be autonomous and that indeed must have not only have them for some others but for precisely these citizens, then that they have failed. One, every transition and every investment in the market... It succeeds precisely if there is one regulatory principle, a mechanism that will prevent, which will just prevent the monopoly, which will prevent exactly the behaviour which unfortunately we must also be aware of today because this relapse or some bad habits of behavior from earlier remain still, but it is also the fact that the public is increasingly sensitized and that it is very spotlessly reacting to any abuse of the case... [[You don't understand.]] and all that we have. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the very fact that certain cities and counties are already beginning to be entitled to what they have invested in that they cannot be charged twice again. But what we can say on behalf of more clubs is that the trends in telecommunications in the Republic of Croatia in recent years have been followed by the already seen scenario in Europe, and these trends are actually composed of further increases in the number of mobile communications users and the physical volume of transport. To introduce new services and start of mass use and widely clarified technologies, mobile telecommunications, to notice stagnation, i.e. a slight decline in the number of users in fixed networks. Almost all of these phone booths, which are certainly still necessary by certain rules, are, in fact, mostly empty today, no one uses them, and then really, instead of some city decoration, they're not. Afterwards, the reduction of significant fixed speech transmission networks and the increase of data transmission services, in particular in widely-explanatory technology, has already been mentioned several times by the ADSL. Then pooling of speech, image and data transmission services into "triple play" and the entry of operators from individual 3 listed to a recent market development segment on baseline 2, and the start of commercial use of alternative technologies in wirelessly wide-ranging services,... , etc., etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this dynamic environment, the role of regulators everywhere in the world is thus becoming crucial for the development of markets that in the case of the Republic of Croatia still have great growth potential. The Croatian Telecommunications Agency, i.e., the Agency's Council as a body that makes key decisions therefore has a great responsibility to act as a non-discriminatory way, a way to be independent of politics and any other influences on the side and with the task of not speaking to a monopolized market as it was up to 2 years ago de facto stimulated, and in key cases and positive discrimination, i.e., favours a limited time of new players on the market so that they can reach such an initial position on the market that will enable them to survive, and thus strengthen competition, and thus also a better price and a better quality service for users who should nevertheless be our ultimate goal. In the last year and a half of the Agency for Telecommunications's work as positive, we are estimating the excellent work done in the final crackdown of mobile telecommunications monopoles because it has proved to be the third player, and this is the third player who brought the real boom on our market but it wouldn't have been if it hadn't been for this agency. Of course, it should be acknowledged that a whole series, a series of laws and sublaws, has made it possible for that third player to appear in our home. We see here that there was some contest for the fourth and that we even actually... or these Emirates, but that is, it has been estimated that he is not satisfying and that the price he offers is not sufficient. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what, after all, if we don't run out of questions, we also require greater engagement and equal uncompromisingness, should also be shown on the fixed telephony market. More decisive measures should be taken and penalties should be imposed where necessary when measures are not implemented. Because, you know, without punishment or your role, if you're not punishing, then unfortunately, you're not taken seriously. And as far as I know, I don't know, but you correct me, Mr. Gachina, has the Agency given any punishment so far? My information here says it's not one, and I'm saying that's why it has a very good chance. And especially needs to be done, that's what I'm asking you on behalf of the HSLS Club on the detachment of local loops as a prerequisite for liberalisation in fixed telephony. It's a good thing we're reading in this economic journal today that the new owner of Iskon will be punished and we're actually expecting exactly what you've announced will happen. And precisely in that sense if, the folk that the first kittens are thrown into the water, that this year and a half of your action as far as our club is concerned may go positively because you just got this extremely ungrateful task of actually correcting a whole series of these wrongs... , and I say the mistakes were made earlier, and now it's really not that simple overnight when the positions are almost acquired, when a whole series of such political and parapolitical relationships are acquired, and when certain positions get stoned, then your role is more difficult. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But here, I'm saying, we expect you to have this very development of these alternative operators in fixed telephony and a whole series of your other actions, and also some answers to what not only me but others have asked you, and from that end, I say, yet, for our club, there is a positive impression of your previous action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66408	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The word has a distinguished representative, Stazic. He's not in the hall, he's losing his right to debate. Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. He's not in the hall, he's losing his right to argue on this agenda point. Honorable representative Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66409	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. President of the Council of the Agency, colleagues and colleagues. Right at the beginning, I want to say that I didn't intend to discuss this at all... For the record seemed to me at first sight to be well-assembled. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But a little more detailed view still encouraged me to say something about him very briefly, in fact something more about the chapters of the liberalisation of the Republic of Croatia's telecommunications market and telecommunications services. In the comparative table of revenues achieved in 2004 and 2005, the assessment data for 2005 are processed, noting that official data will be available at the end of April 2006. There would be a few questions right away. Why was this report written in March, sent to the Assembly in April, and here it came to debate in June? Was it not possible to wait with the Report until the data was available, or until the end of April, for the representatives to have the actual data and not only the assumed data. And since that's the case, why didn't we get the data as a contribution to this debate since it's been a month since the end of April? If it is known that the annual accounts of the previous year must be submitted by 28 February of the current year, it is unclear why the same data should wait until the end of April. The same applies to the display of telecommunications indicators for which the report provides a presentation of data for the first half-year 2005 also, noting that full data will be available at the end of April of this year. The situation is also repeated for fixed network density graphs, mobile network density, internet users and cable TV users. So it turns out that the report for the entire chapter of the liberalisation of the Croatian telecom market is actually a first-term report and only a premise for the whole 2005 and not a real state. In the chapter of telecommunications services, saying of the protection of users in the immovable network, the report says that in 2005, the agency received 130 requests for dispute resolutions between them and the service provider regarding the amount of accounts and the quality of the services performed. But I could not read anywhere what the agency had achieved in solving these specific requirements. The measures taken to solve the drug problem are a positive step forward for the future but have not solved the problem with the above-mentioned high user accounts for services they have not used. Furthermore, it is stated that HT is required as a provider of basic telecommunications services, but it is not specified what it has done and to what extent it has implemented HT. Well, if I were to finish, I'd hopefully be very brief and I'd be grateful if we could get answers to these questions as well as data that are missing so that the report itself would be more complete and complete. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66410	Thank you. The word has a respected representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66411	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen! So here's a brief review of this report. By agreeing with all that is more or less so far I would still point out that this report is good, that it is a step forward compared to the reports we have had so far. Of course, it is a very important segment of the technological, economic, one important segment of the market that I would say might be more complete and profoundly understood than is possible through such reports. At the beginning, I would remember some discussions in the Republic of Croatia in the spring of 1999. That's when there was a so-called. The Presidential Council for Strategic Decisions. At that time, the late president said the privatisation of Telekom was probably one of the hardest decisions I had to make. Of course, it was a key, important, long-term, particularly important decision. But certainly important strategic decisions are difficult to make without quality advisers, all those who form such a decision that it will be the most rewarding and the best in the long term. I'm not sure I'm going to say that and now, seven years after all, that then the best and most qualitative decision was made, next to Deutsche Telekom, there were several other companies that competed in that tender. In addition, our diplomacy Kinker, Granic, Škegro, Mudrinić, etc. was dominated by that time. forming this strategic partnership whose results today have the opportunity to see with all the good but also with the bad side. I was also consulting with colleagues at the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing at the time in the work of the Presidential Council for Strategic Decisions. One of the competitors was connected to the Telia Telenor consortium. Many at the time claimed that we needed a strategic partnership with a great global player, but in these consultations at the engineering level, we thought it made sense to create a strategic partnership not with big players, not with too many players, but with players with whom the Republic of Croatia has long-standing cooperation in the area, Ericsson, Tesla, etc. However, a decision has been made to become Deutsche Telekom as a global strategic player, and it is in some way implementing its views in all particularly on smaller national markets, especially in smaller regional markets. And these effects of the strength of such a large global strategic player in the telecom sector we see to a certain extent and with resistance to the real and complete liberalisation of the market in the Republic of Croatia. Certainly, the objective of this liberalisation is very simple. I will call it as they are very often called in English terminology better, cheaper and faster. Many things have been done and indeed my personal feeling that the work of the agency council has had significant results to balance the interests of the users and the reasonable return of the operator's investment. In this whole story, what seems to me to be very important and if it hadn't been for now, I wouldn't have said enough. Whoever makes the maximum profits on that market and what that profit is based on. This is what we must be interested in as people who are responsible and political for the growth of the Croatian economy, especially for the growth of the technology sector. Is it really true that on this big fast-growing market of Croatian companies in the technology sector they are making their interests fully known, whether there is still to what extent, which is left of the once large giants in the market Tesla, whether we are really in the situation of participating in our knowledge, our engineers, as it is said on the knowledge-based economy in this sector to the extent necessary or perhaps the reverse that these privatisation processes have really led to the restructuring of this industrial economic sector in the Republic of Croatia in a way that in this market, as regards the Republic of Croatia, as far as Croatian companies are mainly dominated by those who dig channels, which drag through cables, install pillars, antennas etc. and I think that the central question that we would deserve is more quality, and I would say more professionally, in any case than the Council of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency, because it seems to me that from the hic tech sector that it was really once in and in which Mr Gacin had a significant place and as an engineer in development, production, etc. It seems to me that in the hi-tec sector we got a manual tic sector where really do dominate the structures of jobs and works that don't match everything we need to do, all of what we can do because unfortunately a key and important role in privatising and managing the sector had so-called. Croatian businessmen who told engineers you don't understand, it's business. Is it business and those who participated in this business have shaped our position in a way that seems not good to me. In any case, it's far from what we can consider an optimal condition. And that's why I'm going to say an old experienced engineer about six years ago I started a little initiative, then I was sort of running a group of young scientists, I said make a project that will be called the learned lessons of privatisation of Croatian telecoms in 2000. We certainly have much more experience today, much more knowledge, so it is a time period in which we can analyze all the good and bad sides of privatisation and Croatian Telekom for a number of reasons. Not because of the Croatian Telecom, but because of the privatisations that follow us, you would be free to propose to the President of the Council of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency that perhaps in the next period from those financial means which we have seen, we have seen that there is a single contract to create a serious scientific based study that might also be called the learned lessons of the privatisation of the Croatian Telecom in 1999-2007. In any case, I believe that in making one such study your important place can have and should have a Croatian... Faculty of Electrical Engineering, Computing above all, but it's also not bad that in this job, making such studies participate in various consulting houses as well as... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It seems to me that such a study with reference to this particular fact is that I said the restructuring of a sector that was then 10 or 20 years ago not only regionally but I would say even globally from the Republic of Croatia had large markets in both the Soviet Union and many other places. Of this significant engineering experience in any case, I believe that there are still other people who can participate in further quality design of everything that is happening in this area so that Croatian science or Croatian knowledge and Croatian engineering in this area can achieve their interests because the maximum and most new added value belongs to those who have already made development, who have well and wisely employed their engineers far from Zagreb and far from these places. I certainly think that this problem should be given some attention because we are about to privatise some other important segments, sectors, I mention only a very short energy sector that is close to the revenues achieved in the telecom sector in the Republic of Croatia. It has an annual income of around 10 billion, the revenues achieved in telecommunications in the Republic of Croatia are 12.7 billion, and they grow much faster as well. Therefore, it seems to me that this is such an important topic, and I hope that your 2007 report may be enriched by the results of a study that could be done and that could, in any case, help us to understand more fully all of the phenomena that are happening in the Croatian market today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66412	Thank you. Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic. He's not in the hall. He's losing his right to debate. We've exhausted the debate with this. Finally, Mr. Gachin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66413	Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. When I had my annual report here a year ago, I said that detachment was a process and that it couldn't be over our own, in our case, it certainly wasn't slow but we started late. If you let me fly at least the most significant questions that are raised here, which are repeated, I would give an answer. The first question of Mr Tadic's distinguished representative regarding Iscon. In today's business journal... It's pretty intense, but the content shows our official statement that we made on the website. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are neither responsible nor worthy of the law, so we are not responsible for the assessment of concentration. As far as this area of telecommunications is concerned, unfortunately, unlike the media, there is a threshold for the assessment of concentration and it is as it is legal, but the Croatian Telecommunications Agency as a regulator will deal with the consequences of this concentration, which means that we will prevent our decisions from using a dominant position on the market. The session, at the first next session, will be on the agenda but allow us so far we have not been able to do anything, because in order to call the session, for the agenda and for decision-making, the procedure should be followed. Therefore, as regards the award of the "vamax" concession and the assessment of the appointment of an operator with a demanding market power. Expansion to the surfaces like HT. The two points will be held at the first next meeting of the Agency's Council. That's quite certain. It's another matter of detachment of local loops. It is true that according to the contract that was concluded, the second contract from 2001 and then some annex was what it was, liberalisation was delayed and local looping for 1.1.2005. During 2005, after the amendment of the Regulation, we finally made a decision at the 10th month on the detachment of local loops and co-locations. On that occasion we determined the price of local loops of 52.14 kuna. The lowest price of the access stick, copper sticks in Europe, but this price is not imposed without HT criteria, although they complain about it and we have a court dispute which is legitimate but it is brought on the basis of the specificity of the Croatian market and that is exactly the price of the subscription that is 60 kuna, in 60 kuna is 10 kuna service. It means the price of 50 kuna. But when it does... With the multi-channel use of that local bat, then with one exact calculation, we came to 52.14. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's the operator's business, if so, if the regulator does his part of the job. If the Ministry brings regulation, then it is also a matter of new operators, their skills to consume the rights offered to them. I am personally very unhappy with their slowness, inertness and tolerance of obstruction in the signing of these contracts. We had a rulebook in 30 days. On the 31st day, they could report an HT obstruction and then the regulator could act. So that's about local loops. But as a result of the local loop, the issue of liberalisation of broadband approach is also raised, because through local loops, operators, new operators will have much better opportunities to offer ADSL services and this famous broadband approach. As for "billing" and HT obligations "Incomment Operator" or as it is called, operator with... With the market power to provide accounting services under the contract between the Croatian Government and Deutsche Telekom and HT respectively, that obligation has been deleted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It therefore came into the zone, in the area of commercial negotiations between operators. And as far as the DTK is concerned, I am quite aware of that I have also participated in the fact that, as far as the ownership structure is concerned, we are not in charge of it, but it is a matter or arrangement of the Government of Croatia which is under way and Deutsche Telecoma or HT or the competent court. So much for ownership. But listening to the debate here, I think that all the debates on DTK were relevant and, in fact, I, with my knowledge from that area and experience, really support the care of basic infrastructure because it's simply about, it's about space and the space is neither bought nor paid for the right of service is it? Therefore, there is no basis for anything but the way most respected MPs have discussed here. This is my personal contribution, although as an agency under Article 22, paragraph 5, we are responsible for the methods of use and common infrastructure to ensure that this management and use is non-discriminatory so that new operators have the same conditions as HT. With this in mind, we have made up a specific governance proposal. I've got it here. If there's an interest, I believe it exists, we can copy or read. In any case, this motion of governance does not replace any decision on ownership relations but it can significantly regulate relations because it is happening now indeed, I have called it the jungle under the asphalt, fighting without respecting any legality of the profession, destroying the cable without any record. Then there's violence in the sense of cable tearing and physical reckoning. That condition really needs to be overcome. I share concerns. I personally encourage those who could help resolve things here. One thing that is also rightly mentioned here is basic telecommunications services. I have to admit it's been too long. It is that we have made a decision and we have imposed obligations on an operator with a more significant market power and here we have lost a lot of time in correspondence or assurances, and it takes criticism and we will seek to speed up the process to finally, to function with all the rights that we have given to an operator with a more significant market power to also install them in its general terms and so that our citizens who are socially endangered or disabled have everything we have foreseen. So it's a matter of consumption, but I have to say a report was written for 2005. Also, under the law, we are required to submit within a certain time limit but I believe that the remark is in place. That if there were to be a time-out from the time of writing to the report here in the Assembly that the right path might be to submit more precise data and supplementing that report. So I accept it as a very useful suggestion. As for the price of 6.4%, I said it was a composite index. Prices are in fixed nets, depending on the tariff packages dropped between 6% and 22%. In mobile networks, prices in one network fell over 50%. However, it should be considered that users are inert and, in addition, things have not been profiled on the telecommunications market. So people rightly wait to gain the trust that they are operators who earn trust because it is not easy to change the operator. So the offer as regards price reductions is much higher than users consume. Information that our prices are two and more times higher than in neighbouring countries, I would say something about that. Prices of telecommunications services in national transport are cheaper than in European countries. We are still more expensive in international transport in a fixed network and in data transfer of higher speeds, more than 2 megabytes. And we're working on it because we've declared HT an operator with a more significant market power for data transmission. I'm sorry. I tried to answer those questions most often mentioned, and if you'll excuse me, I would answer the questions that are now in writing to all the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66414	Thank you. This concludes the debate on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66415	Annual Report on the work of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency and on the state and achievement of the principles and objectives of the regulation of the telecommunications market in the Republic of Croatia for 2005. I'm voting on the next conclusion. An annual report on the work of the Council of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency and on the state and achievement of the principles and objectives of the regulation of the telecommunications market in the Republic of Croatia for 2005 is hereby adopted. Please, let's get on with it. Can we vote? The result? With 69 votes in favour, 14 abstentions and 7 against the proposed report. We have another proposal for the conclusion of the HSP representative club. The Croatian Telecommunications Agency is tasked with taking over the ISKON Internet d.d. telecommunications company. In accordance with Article 51 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. The Telecommunications Act. Second, adjust the concessions awarded to the Internet d.d. the necessary increases in competition in the telecommunications market. As regards this proposal for the conclusions of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency, the Director made clear on this proposal for conclusions shared by the representatives on benches and, finally, considered by the Director of the Agency that the proposal of the Club of Representatives of the HSP neither substance nor time in relation to the annual Report of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency for 2005, and therefore does not accept it. Please vote. Come on, come on, come on, come on, What? Proposal for a conclusion, the position of the applicant, or say. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66416	Your Honor, Mr. President, look at the position of the motionor. In view of the above, Veli considers that the proposal of the Club of Representatives of the HSP neither substance nor time is related to the annual Report of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency. What's he talking about? That's where he said he'd say yes. Well, normally when it wasn't, and we have the right to give that part to the Rules of Procedure, then... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66417	Please, let's get on with it. Vote? The result? 11 for, 13 abstentions, 62 against. He didn't get the necessary majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66418	We move to the following - Report on the implementation of the demining plan of the Croatian state space and spent financial resources for 2005; In accordance with Article 5. The Law on humanitarian demining was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the material by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? State Secretary Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66419	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I will only briefly repeat some of the most important facts in this report that you have received, since the demining activity is of particular social importance and interest. In fact, humanitarian demining deals with several activities. One thing is humanitarian demining. Then another activity in the education of the population on mine dangers. And the third is to help mine victims. In Croatia, the mines are 1174 km2, and the demining plan is carried out according to several criteria, according to the established size, layout and structure of mine suspected space in 12 mine suspected counties of interest or priorities of counties, and public and other legal persons in the Republic of Croatia available financial means and capacities that carry out humanitarian demining activities. In accordance with these criteria these humanitarian demining operations have also been done in the area of the county where mine suspected areas exist. You saw that the plan for last year was implemented with 84.9%, or it was planned to examine, check 32 million m2, and 27 million 180 thousand m2. This is what I would say by submersibles in the realization of the mine-suspecting plan for a number of reasons, and one of the unpredictable reasons was a very bad time, i.e. unfavourable weather conditions, so last August there were 19 rainy days in which there could be no work, and July, August, or other summer months were supposed to be months in which the main jobs were to be carried out. As for the financial resources, i.e. the realisation of the planned funds and their spending, it was planned to spend last year 300 million 886 thousand, and 290 million 825 thousand were achieved, which is the same realization of 96.7%. A total of 28075 mine-explosive and non-explosive killings were found in these demining operations. Of which 3205 pieces of mine explosives and 24870 pieces of other unexploded, murderous assets. Where the plan is exceeded and what's good is in demining control. In 2005, surveillance of 173 demining projects was carried out on a total surface of 167234 m2 which is approximately 1.6% of the demining area, which is significantly higher than the legal obligation of 0.5% and this is certainly a good practice to monitor and verify as much as possible the larger area that has been investigated or examined. The structure of the financial resources shows that 147 million 886 thousand are planned from the budget and the same amount is achieved, which means 100%. The largest incursion in the realisation of funds is from a source named legal person and the authorities of the state administration and local self-government. Namely, it was a 85 million plan. 73 million 600 thousand have been realized, which is the realisation of the plan with 86%. The donations have been realised in greater than planned. 68 million were planned. 69 million 338 thousand have been realised, which is also a good indicator since this is one of the most important, generous sources of funding. Legal persons have seen a decline of 86.6%, but this is already a trend that lasts several years, and there will be a Croatian Mine Action Centre, but other participants in this job will have to engage more to ensure much greater and more generous resources than legal persons, since it is obvious that the funds from the state budget will not be sufficient for the realization of this job in planned time frames. The largest part of the donations has been made since the donations of the European Union, the United States of America, the Kingdom of Norway, the Federal Republic of Germany and some other countries or international organisations and institutions. What is important is to point out that the implementation of the plan must have been affected by a slight increase in demining prices, and what was partly influenced by the signing of a collective contract with pyrotechnicians for the past year, which we appreciate because it was a multi-year requirement for all demining participants and finally signed that collective contract which was obtained by pyrotechnicians and greater material rights. But also through the amendment of the Pension invalidity Insurance Act, they also increased their rights in the event of an accident. So on the one hand, we have achieved increased and increased protection of pyrotechnics, but on the other hand, this has led to a certain slight increase in demining prices. As far as the victims are concerned, what can certainly be encouraging is that last year or 2005 fewer Croatian citizens were killed since the number of people killed in 2004. In 2004, 16, 2005, 13 people were killed and four people were killed in death, and the most serious one was injured in Vukovar-Srijem County was four, or one fatal and three. Then, Split-Dalmatia 4, one fatal 3 weight. Sibenik-Kninska 3, Požega-Slavonska one and Lika-Senjska one. As for the realization of planned demining operations by county, the plan is best realised in Dubrovnik-Neretva County with 149%, then in Osijek-Baranja with 112%, and the weakest was realised in Požega-Slavonska with only 57.7%. What is certainly coming to all participants in this process, the humanitarian demining process is the construction of a whole mine-information system in order to facilitate this very important job for the entire Republic of Croatia and to enable participants in the demining process to be more efficient and more efficient and efficient. These were the most important figures on the implementation of the demining plan for 2005. And we hope that 2006, that is, the current year will be better, and today the representative of the Croatian Mine Action Centre is signing a grant agreement with certain companies whose name I will not mention. But we think that right now it will need to be the focus of activities to raise significantly larger funds from donations and funds from legal persons, since we see that there are the most problems with realisation. In addition to this report, you have also received a report on the implementation of the demining plan and spent financial resources for 2005 for the Ministry of Defence. And since the Ministry of Defence has done demining work only on military facilities that have not been injured, we feel that this should not be specifically commented since this report on demining operations in areas that citizens use daily, with which they come daily in touch is much more important. And these were the most important data from this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66420	Thank you. Representative of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66421	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security at the 69th session held on 25 May 2006 discussed the report on the implementation of the plan for demining Croatia's state space and spent financial resources for 2005. The Committee members are familiar with the basic tasks of the 2005 plan and its implementation, as well as the financial resources spent. The proposer's representative states that the demining plan covered 12 out of 251 counties. It further states that the plan has not been fully achieved but with 84.9% due to extremely unfavourable weather conditions during part of the past year. It also notes that the financing of the demining of Croatian state space was covered by the state budget, funds with donation positions, legal persons and bodies of the state administration and local self-government, and that 96.7% of the planned funds were spent. The Committee supported the position of representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and assessed that the report was fully covered by the implementation of the demining plan for 2005. Therefore, after the debate was held, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Report on the implementation of the plan for demining the Croatian state space and spent financial resources for 2005 in the text proposed by the applicant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66422	On behalf of the HSLS Club, the distinguished representative of Ledinsky.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66423	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here's the report on the implementation of our country's demining plan for the past year. Here's what I have to say in the introduction that the HSS Club can only take this report into account, and given how much funds we invested in demining it would be best to bring it back to the government. Because we cannot achieve the goal that we have set ourselves in both the Parliament and the Government of Croatia without Mines. In this way and at this rate that we're doing it will only be when none of us are likely to be alive anymore. About 60 or how many years. This pace will not demining Croatia. And I think that's a personal problem. This year, we have a representative of the proposer. Last year when we talked about it, we didn't even have a proposing representative, so I'm glad the Secretary of State is here and he's hearing our thoughts. Although I would like to have representatives of the Croatian Mine Action Centre, as well as our dear fellow advisor, our fellow representative Brodarac, who devotes the most work to this. About this report, I'm not saying, this is a collection of accurate data, but the pace we're working with, I don't think we can be satisfied. I believe you'll agree with me. When we look at how much damage we can't control with all the space, they're huge. I don't think there's even any record of how much they'd be or how much they'd be. I was the last time I talked about it trying to illustrate the extent of the damage to the forest. These are tremendously large amounts that arise because they cannot be mastered by that space. And most of all, what's practically immeasurable is that every year a number of people get hurt. Last year the secretary of state said something less than before, but far more than a year ago, and each victim is immeasurable at the amount of value, because every man is a being that has a great value of his own, and it can't be measured in amounts, in kind of kunas, or I don't know what. In that part with a rate of 32 million square meters that we like to talk in millions, it would be better to say how much it is in some measures that are comparable as hectares or kilometers then we would see that it is very little. And my appeal, and on behalf of the HSS Club, is to try to see these 300 million kunas how much we collect from various ways, from the state budget, from donations, from state-owned companies, are also small funds. My proposal to the Secretary of State is to try to make sure for the next budget that everyone here in the Parliament supports it, more resources for that. When we look at it, here I can give an example that is related to the Croatian forests. There are still 150 thousand hectares of suspicious surfaces, although this part of Croatia's forest is highlighted as a positive example that every year these funds are increasingly being allocated to some 25 million people but in the past year, which is certainly positive that one company is singled out, but the demining concern is not only Croatian forests. So here we have six victims of hunting and fishing and one mountaineer and were killed right in the area with which the lords of the Croatian forest were. So the area that is still mine-suspecting is real, victims are happening, and that should be the concern of all of us, and in the percentage of which only 12% of the forest surfaces have been demining. At that rate, we will have to wait years and years to reach the completely demining surfaces of the forest. And then it's not enough to say that it's in some percentage of 97% that I accept in relation to the plan, and it's all right, but that percentage of 97, 100 is small, you know, and we're not laughing, and we're not all allowed to meet the state budget. Because that 300 million is one drop in the sea of funds that should be invested. I know it's hard to raise donations because they're gone as they were before, but then you know when we're talking about the report then it'd be good to show how it's been in the last ten years since the 95th on here so let's see what we've been doing, what parts we've been working on that we haven't eaten on. I know that a few years ago, while I was in the Croatian forests, I started to work out some of the money from state companies, that's what my colleagues remember, and that's good, and today we came to an acceptable amount. But 25 million kuna for a state-owned company is no longer small, these are significant assets that are being allocated, and that is the same contribution to the wider community in one overall work, and not just an item, the final amount of a company's profits, and it certainly needs to be valorised. And when I talk about it, I have to say that forests are a specific eco system and that what happened 15 years ago would be a small forest, but it is now a medium-term forest practically and should also apply different demining methods, methods, how to call them, eco methods that will allow most of the space to be demined with as little resources as possible and not the same job to come after 15 years to a surface that already looks quite different than before. So it would be good to appreciate all this and ultimately in the fall when making a budget here in the Parliament to allocate far greater funds. Then we could say that we can be satisfied with this report, I'm not saying the report as a data set is precisely done and I respect the work that especially do people at the Mine Action Centre, but that tells us it's not enough. And what particularly bothers me in the report is on the last page that says that, when it talks about the cooperation of the Mine Action Centre with the Ministry of Defence that despite efforts to launch the suspended co-operation on these effects of demining military facilities, monitoring the work and carrying out a final draft on the quality of the jobs it has failed in 2005, it has not been before. Then he would ask himself and you why we only have a report from the MUP, why we don't have a demining report and the Ministry of Defense, what's especially important in this country that it doesn't need to deliver reports, and we see that this cooperation between us isn't at the level when the report says so, which is not good. Then why did we set up the Mine Action Centre as a roof organization that I've known so far, I've taken very good care of mine-mining business. So, and this is stated in the report, obviously there is no quality cooperation and there is a need to talk publicly about it, is there, and see why it happened, and that means in 2005, it has not been before. Well, if we don't talk about it, then there's probably not gonna be any future cooperation. Here I tried here briefly and clearly to present a few details about what should be done. It would end with the fact that the practical club of HSS would prefer to return this report to the secretary of state, and this way we can only take it to the knowledge, and my appeal is once again in the end, that we all try to provide significantly more resources for the next reports to be at square meters, miles or hectares far more favourable in demining and to leave Croatia without mines, at least as long as we live who we are here, because at this rate we will certainly not achieve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66424	Thank you. On behalf of the HSP club, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66425	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. So the first thing I have to say on behalf of the Croatian party's club is the only positive thing that happened last year, and it's about demining is the fact that it's finally been legally resolved are all status issues, that is, most of the status issues of pyrotechnics, and that's the same problem that's been solved since 98. We know for ourselves what the situation was and that at the end of the pyrotechnics protest, with our support, at least something was finally solved last year about this area. The second thing that can be positive in this area, however, come on last year was demined 27km square is demining. But the HSP club is deeply concerned, and what it says first of all is the relationship between the Croatian Mine Action Centre, the Croatian Government and ourselves of the Croatian Parliament, according to the problem of demining in Croatia. It speaks of our motherhood, i.e. our irresponsibleness and carelessness for a very important issue of special importance for Croatia, for all its citizens, which is the demining of all areas that are marked as suspicious and mined areas. And if this keeps up, it won't be good. Therefore, on behalf of the club, I will address the most important issues related to this report, which is the question of dynamics, the question of money and people's suffering. As far as dynamics are concerned, it was said in 98 that demining would take place within 10 years. Now here we have data that can eventually be higher, and that means that according to the data available, the total area is marked as a mine suspected area, a thousand 174 kilometers of square meters is marked. It was planned last year to get rid of 32km of the square, 27 were settled. So if it were to go according to plan as last year, 32 kilometers square, it would take us 37 years. It means 37 years to demine all areas that are mine-suspecting. If it was working towards what's in the report, then it would take us more, it would take us 43 years. So 43 years, and you know what 43 years mean? As for the suffering, it's very much here, now I'm going to tell you about this area. So, according to the report, between 98 and 2005, 262 people were killed. So 262 people were killed by far more victims, not here in 97, 96, and 95 when they were essentially the most civilians and died. It's over 500 and some people according to my data. So, if you took that data from 98 to 2005 it would indicate that an average of 33 people were killed. If you took this last piece of information that killed 13 people last year and if you took the dynamics that were indicated here, it means 37 years, if you demined 32 kilometers per year, that means, dear gentlemen, that 481 people are going to get killed. 481 people, i.e. by the dynamics of 27 km square yearly, are 569 people that will suffer during this period, meaning 37 or 43 years. If you take the data that according to the last one that's a year, 4 people have died, it means 172 people have died. So now you see what these are ratios. God forbid this, this is statisticalally speaking, according to what's in the report, and which, unfortunately, could happen if it's done this badly, or if this dynamic is nothing, that only 27 kilometers of square will be mined annually. It is evident here that last year a little more than 300 million kunas for demining were foreseen, these planned 32, meaning 27km of square. According to what's now, so it's marked as a mine suspected area, which is a thousand 174 kilometers and prices, so we're supposed to demining all 11 billion kunas. We would need 11 billion kunas, but with this dynamic, means insurance of financial resources both in the budget and on other basiss, we're doing these 27 and 32 kilometers squared annually. So now take those 1 billion kunas with this possible, unfortunately, variant to kill 569 people. To get 172 people killed, so I ask you, I ask myself and all of us, so what are we doing here? So, with this dynamic and this report that we're talking about today, we're going to go through with the fact that these 37, or 43, 569 people are going to die, or 172 people are going to die. That's what we need to worry about, and it's deeply concerned, and if we're going to redistribute any amount again when the budget comes, whether we're going to give for any other purpose, whether we're finally going to solve the issue of the gray economy, and 11 to 15 billion kunas of the grey economy, which is the subject of the state budget. Therefore, this report is not even to be returned to the government. This isn't even about returning to the government, I hope the government understands as well as we here what the problem is and what can happen and what happens. And I hope that you will finally, even though you are not responsible for it, we are responsible for saying the same about those insurance funds. But God forbid we're even discussing the year that we've only 27 kilometers of square deminings and we're telling each other again it's been less fatal, now it's said 13 people have been killed, and 2004. 16. So we're talking about human lives. We know what the situation is, that people are killed in areas that are, should be marked and not marked. And that's where the state is also responsible for having good lawyers the family would, or those who got hurt if injured or injured could get cash out. Therefore, this Report in the club HSP deeply worries us and speaks of this irresponsible relationship and maternal both the Government and the Croatian Assembly themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66426	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Zeljko Kurtov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66427	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This report shows that the 2005 plan's tasks have not been achieved, that 32km has been planned, that 84.9% of the plan has been achieved. Why is this so and in this Report visible and you can see the reasons why this plan for 2005 was not reached in a 100% amount. I think we have these 13 counties where, i.e., 12 counties are supposed to be working in 2005 3 counties that are commendable and I think that should be publicly highlighted. Dubrovnik-Neretvaska, Virovitica-Podravska and Zadarska. In this report we see that it is possible to organize well and plans that the plan can be achieved not 100% but more than 100%, which gives us hope that in the future we will actually reach 2010 without mines in Croatia. I think that we owe it to Croatian citizens who live alongside these mines, and if we know that in the Homeland War, these citizens were at risk all the time, and now after the Homeland War, I also think that we owe everyone here in the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as well as all state-owned companies that we will later see who have not achieved their part of the plan in the highest part, and thanks to them, this plan has not been fully successful. I'm worried we have a non-minorization due to the inability to stop traffic on the highway. Well, gentlemen, if we have 27 companies and a layman and I as a man who doesn't deal with it right away, I came up with the idea that the highway sector or the roads that are in the dense traffic of shares are built on 27 smaller shares and that all the companies are suddenly working there and that the short days, the hours needed for that part are demining, and we don't have examples of citizens living so hard, which are usually in those parts and minefields to be harassed every day by stopping traffic and leaving and arriving from the workplace for 3 to 5 hours instead of, say, 30 or 40 minutes. I think that part should be better organised and that everyone in charge has to make better arrangements. These arrangements are not possible if the price is not known in the long run and real bargaining, so we can't plan the long-term, i.e. for each year in advance precisely because there were variations of large ones in the price of demining the terrain, and we know that it was cheaper one meter square demining than cutting down the grass in a park. From this table, number 4 shows that the state budget achieved 100% of its plan, that donations by foreign countries and organisations achieved with 102%, and legal entities, state administration bodies and local self-government failed 86%. This is what concerns me and I can't understand that Croatian electricity is sufficient and successful, with 73% achieved its payment plan, the Croatian railway with 15%, the Croatian road for 10% of realisation, and the Croatian forests 253%, the Croatian highway 94% and "Plina cro" d.d. 319% and ANAF 502. It's from those companies owned by a state that should be the first to compete to help its citizens, who have no reason to live in these conditions and run into the city, and what we don't want to leave these rural areas is happening, and... that we return them means that one awareness of the leadership of this country and politics, that these businesses are preceded in their donations, we have the reverse that these state-owned enterprises are being undermined, and the foreigners, the European Union, the United States, Kingdom, Norway, Germany, etc. to make 102% donations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what worries me and that we should all be here together wondering why it's like that. This report is not wrong that it happened, therefore dear colleagues and colleagues the report is quite realistic, it is someone else's fault that it is not better done, and this report is a realistic and visible state as it is, so we should be angry with these results that are in this report, not on the Report. As far as mine victims are concerned, the drop in victims has been apparent since '98. the years here in constant decline, which alone results in the fact that we have fewer minefields. However, in 2003, we have zero victims, and all of this is more or less in constant decline, so I think about that part that we should make even greater education efforts, because I'm going to tell you that I'm going by the road where minefields are, along the road, and then 2, 3 years I don't see any mark and then after 3 years, here we are now before the summer season new features of minefields and we local people there are surprised we didn't know that there was a minefield so far so I don't know how it suddenly marks the terrain that has never been marked. These are some absurds that I think we should question, see why that is. Could there be any malfeasance, not just an unconscious marking that I think could be all a little bit. I can only call on all those who have not paid their funds during 2005 to do so in 2006 with a higher amount to reach the 2010 target of "Croatia without Mines" which I doubt if this continues to work. I think it comes to the question of the implementation of the plan as a whole that we accept as reality in this report, but I must stress that we are not satisfied with the overall fulfillment of the 84.9% plan which I think is unacceptable and that someone should therefore answer or give a good explanation of why it happened. Finally, when I thought that we had a fairly correct report and I will finally read point 7 which is not in the content, cooperation with the Croatian Mine Action Centre with the aim of improving cooperation with the Croatian Mine Action Centre with regard to the definition and marking of mine suspected space in the Republic of Croatia in August 2005 began the process of analysis and exchange of all available documents and data relating to the mining of space, military facilities dedicated to the management of civil structures and space around them or mine suspected areas in the wider area outside military facilities. The activity was carried out in accordance with the orders of the superiors and according to previously identified priorities among which the island of Vis was first, then the islands of Šipan, Kolocep, Lopud, Jakljan and Lastovo and the wider area of the Dubrovnik hinterland of Konavle and Stone. Despite efforts to launch the suspension of co-operation on the verification of demining projects of military facilities, monitoring and work and the implementation of final supervision, the quality of the operations carried out was also lagging behind in 2005. This is reality, but gentlemen, I can't figure out what this explanation means. It is not obvious who is to blame from this explanation for this cooperation. non-cooperation with the Mine Action Centre, whether or not the culprit has a name and last name, which is the deadline for establishing cooperation, and most importantly who is in charge of establishing this cooperation what I have to ask. We should either know from this report that we are delivered what deadlines, what names are and what time it is to establish cooperation with the centre that this situation which is now and which here is clearly highlighted that I do not blame again the one who did these reports but who is really guilty of this situation. This is how we can expect that there will continue to be a situation like this that is no benefit to anyone and especially not to Croatian citizens who live by mines are still being punished because they live in these most vulnerable areas of Croatia. I think citizens are the last to suffer for someone's failures and I think this report is visible. Therefore, the Croatian People's Party will support this report and what we are not satisfied with the very knowledge of this report I think we should refer this disdain to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and those responsible people who are in charge of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66428	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66429	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament! Here is the report of the Croatian Mine Action Centre for 2005 and it is shown correctly everything in the tables as planned, as far as it has been achieved. It certainly takes a lot more money and donors and legal entities, and state-owned enterprises as well as municipalities and cities that will be involved with their funds to make the territory of the Republic of Croatia deminable as soon as possible. We see from this report that twenty-eight demining companies are certainly able to solve and clear the territory of the Republic of Croatia from mines in the planned period by 2010, but only financial resources should be found or distributed to state-owned companies, which are currently participating but should probably be more involved with the means to clean up the entire state territory. There's also what's been introduced and it's a quality of work control and it's actually the one that shows now that there are these rhymes that don't do their job right. The report shows that a certain company that has been called here and has been called a failure and that a lot of mine-explosive assets have been found behind it, and I think that such ones are inconclusive and do such damage and earn money and thus create a risk of casualties and new victims. Such ones should be prevented from competing more and working more when in these examples they make a job that is not adequate but mines remain behind them. It was also the case in Bjelovar. It seems to me that three times the same area of the military former warehouse in Bjelovar has been demined, and it's also all paid for and no one has been subject to any sanctions. I hope that it will continue to be supervision that will make it impossible for new casualties and victims to occur, that we will find opportunities for funding and increased funding in the coming years as well as in the next budget, that the Croatian Mine Action Centre should probably also take care of spending on its salaries of 34m200,000 kuna, although it has already allocated certain funds of 3 million and 300 thousand and live and live on, I think they still have too many salaries on the number of employees and spending of funds. And that should be made up. As I told Croatian companies only when it is necessary to push the road route, highways, power lines or power grids, gasification networks or water lines then invest funds and clear this route, otherwise this is a weak response to donations, especially domestic entities, and is only 2% of the total donations in this year's report. I think we should all appeal together that everyone has to get involved, then we can achieve the effects. Otherwise, without the inclusion of all entities in the Republic of Croatia, we will certainly not be able to do anything concrete. Foreign donations are actually made and through the planned amount and they've come to us well, they have strangers of understanding, it's visible through these tables also as much as they've invested, we believe they will continue. We hope that education on the dangers of mines will not be like so far to cover the entire Adriatic, Adriatic highway of the board of mines "Be careful, mines!"I don't think it makes any sense to me, and I think it should have been in other places and put the tables right where minefields are and not on the highway. I don't know what was going to happen with that. I also believe that it will not happen again that such disastrous mistakes are being stolen through a mines conference and demining, and they fail to cry with Serbian volunteers, victims. I think it's for every conviction. I've condemned it, but I hope it shouldn't happen again, especially funding from funds intended for demining. We really don't need that kind of education on the Cyrillic. I can say that the HDZ Club supports this report even though I say there is something to say that it needs a lot more funding and a lot more donations to clean up the territory of the Republic of Croatia as soon as possible. In this report, there is also a report on demining military facilities and so we see that 4 military, 8 warehouses, 1 polygon and one aircraft base are demining and it is clear how much of these funds and spent on these facilities in the military vault. The Croatian Democratic Community Club supports this report and appeals to all donors and all state-owned companies and businessmen in the Republic of Croatia to join in co-financing of this job which is of great importance for the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66430	Thank you. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, Mr. Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66431	Dear Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, and here's the Club of Independent Thoughts, and myself personally from the club that the report was actually correct. Of course, we can complain now that the plan has been implemented with 85%. We can also find regrets, justifiable reasons whether they are justified or not in that part, and we would not have any objections to the content of this report. However, we have objections to what is the essence of this report, which is the demining of the entire state space, the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. Not that it's not ambitious, but the plan is below all permitted, below all permitted levels, given how much state territory is under mines. We can't think that in the coming years of the state budget, we absolutely can't accept that such a minimum of funds is allocated to demining if we know what the problem is? And in fact, I personally, and I believe that most colleagues and colleagues can be investigated by such or such reports, but the fact is that this House has brought the State budget for 2005 and that the State budget was then clearly indicated that the state, or that the State budget, is two hundredths, slightly less than two hundred million kunas for demining, and then it was known that it was insufficient. And here we now have a situation in early 2006 that is still in Croatia 1147 square kilometers of mine suspected space in 12 counties. Since only 27 square kilometers were demining in 2005 I would like to once again warn of the inadmissible slow demining dynamics. With this kind of dynamic, State Secretary Croatia will not be cleared of mines for 43 years. So in 2049, Croatia will be demined under the conditions that the dynamics take place as they have so far. I don't think it's you or the DOJ or the government, any government that doesn't, not this one now can't agree. In 2043, the territory of the Republic of Croatia should be demined. So I think this is actually this dynamic so far that it's actually ironic. This should be made plain to the Croatian public and citizens, not hidden behind some partial reports and data that mask the right picture. Croatia will be demined if you do as you have done in 2043. The financial indicators clearly indicate that the state is insufficiently concerned with the provision of financial resources to resolve the demining problem in any way. We can give criticism to public enterprises, Croatian electricity companies, Croatian forests, Croatian roads, but do the government and state expect public enterprises to donate and take over all the burden? Does the government expect local and regional self-government units to be involved? That, after the Homeland War and all that has happened to us, they solve the problem of the minimality of Croatian space. With modest calculations of course they have. So let us be aware that this problem cannot be solved by public companies, that it cannot be solved by units of local and regional or regional self-government, but rather by responsibility lying in the state and on an organised approach, a systematic approach to demining the entire state territory. In addition, I am personally concerned about the data that the demining plan has failed the most again in eastern Croatia. In Požega-Slavon County 54.6%. Not to say that there's actually one square mile demining there. 0.9 square kilometers in Požega County. Vukovar-Srijem County 68%. A slightly better percentage than the plan, but only three and a half miles and less than three and a half kilometers is demining. Four-way, of course. If we're talking about the plan then the plan in Osijek-Baranja County is well achieved because 98% was demined there. But it's only a little over four square miles. I will later say something about Osijek-Baranja County, so you will see what is actually happening if dynamics are and this approach of demining continues. What is even more worrying is the finding of final expert surveillance where 6 anti-walking mines and 30 unexploded killings were found. However, this report does not say anything about what the state, the competent ministries and the Croatian Mine Action Centre have taken on these firms and companies that have made the failure and where the funds remain after demining, where supervision of the funds was found. What we've done is make sure these companies don't get a license anymore for demining. It doesn't matter what it's paid for, but it's very important that someone enters that space, that evil happens, that it explodes, and that innocents or lives, or that people get hurt or run out of body parts. And now let me look back at Osijek-Baranja County. E in Osijek-Baranja County there are 209 square kilometers below mines, or more precisely mine suspected area. Out of that, 19 square miles of waste in Osijek City. In Osijek-Baranja County, of these 209 square kilometers over 80 square kilometers is a agricultural area. What does that mean for Slavonia and Baranja? I don't think we should elaborate here. Now, since '98. By 2005 only 25 square kilometers were demined in Osijek-Baranja County. I believe there's nothing better in the other county. But for my county, I have concrete indicators. So 209 square kilometers has remained mined, and in 8 years only 25 square kilometers have been demined. What does that mean? This means that the annual demining is an average of 3.1 square kilometers. In the city of Osijek 0.44 square kilometers and with this dynamic that Osijek will be cleared from mines in 2049 and Osijek-Baranja County in 2073. Whether the Government keeps these figures acceptable and whether the next or perhaps budget rebalance or the next budget on this will be calculated to separate a billion or two for demining. Understand this problem or there will be no justification for not separating public enterprises sufficiently. Well, I can't have public companies, the economy, what do we expect public companies to set aside a billion, two for demining? The government is solely responsible for the demining of the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia and I hope it has not changed and it cannot because this Parliament has adopted the National Strategy. So, Croatia without mines until 2010. Which is why you haven't submitted a new national strategy, and you know you won't be able to do it. Don't blame me, though, I'm not talking about this government. I'm also talking about the last government that adopted the National Strategy. The probability of whether or not, I'm confident with good intentions. But if you see that the National Strategy and that Croatia without mines by 2010 is impossible to implement this National Strategy then a new national strategy is adopted or proposed before this Parliament. I suppose, in fact, if the dynamics were to be separated and so little financial resources were to be allocated, that without mines, we would not even see Croatia, because that would mean with such dynamics that the strategy would be recorded and that Croatia would be without mines there in 2050. In the end, I want to warn again about a really serious and difficult situation. Of course, in those areas where practically the first lines of the front line in the Republic of Croatia were clear in the east of Croatia, in Osijek-Baranja, Vukovar-Srijem County, Požeko-Slavon County. But also other counties where the current mine problem is. We will not accept this report in principle. We will take it to the knowledge, or we will be restrained for the reason that we think first of all that the Croatian Mine Action Centre is good for quality and that it works within the framework of our really let's show our allocated financial opportunities. But the Independent Club holds this, I repeat once again that mine problem, the demining of the territory of the Republic of Croatia is solely responsible for the Government of the Republic of Croatia regardless of whether it represents a coalition, one or that party. That's right now. So it will also be in the future and that all of that attempt to overturn responsibility to the public companies of units of local self-government, regional self-government, masking the image, transfer responsibility. And I'd say if it still keeps up that way, then it's an unacceptable disregard by those who run the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66432	Thank you very much. We'll interrupt the session now. Continuation is at 3:00 p.m. and is the first in line on behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. It's 13:30. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66434	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Let me show on behalf of the SDP Club the support or acceptance of the report that we have been given by the Government, and regarding the demining of the Croatian state space and spent financial resources for 2005 but primarily as a serious warning, therefore not as information, but as a warning. Because there is no doubt that the report we received for 2005 is almost the same as the one from 2004 even the years before that. He's talking about maybe the time has finally come to stop convincing ourselves of something that isn't. To stop at one serious issue, declare good will and intent, and do not do what needs to be done to make a serious problem, the mine problem in Croatia is indeed solved within an acceptable period. In fact, this report shows that the mine problem seems to be falling slowly into oblivion. One might say that 150 million kunas of state money intended for demining or nearly 200 million watching total spending on solving mine problems does not talk about it. But the fact is that in Croatia right now we have a thousand and 74 square miles of mines, a thousand 174 square miles of mine suspected space. And to take a year's demining of 27 kilometers says we're pretty unserious. And we are unserious mainly if we continue to insist and pretend that we do not know that the demining strategy is simply invaluable by 2010. At this point, we do not have a valid serious document or a demining strategy for Croatia that would reflect the real needs, financial needs primarily, and the possibility of solving the mine problem in Croatia in some foreseeable time. My colleagues before me have calculated that this dynamic 27km square year, with the amounts at our disposal by the state budget, either by the funds of public state-owned enterprises, donations and local self-government, we could solve the problem at that pace for 43 years when only a small number of those sitting in this House will be alive at all. I think there is no need to remind ourselves of the fact that the mine problem in Croatia is a living problem. A living problem because it is paid by the citizens of this country with their lives, neither guilty nor due, that we are the generation of people who have to solve this problem and have no right to leave it behind us for generations. We can joke about our evil fate and what happened to us that we had a war, that we had the disastrous consequences of that war, that we had the enormous costs of that war, but that's how it is. Either we are or we are unable to deal with problems. What is also visible from this report and what is somewhat warning is the fact that we should definitely forget about any thought that Croatia will demining someone else from us. No, Croatia will demining us, primarily us, with our own resources and forces. The illusions that the world, Europe, donors etc., will single out big money to demining Croatia, and illusions should be left aside. As much as we are able to secure in our state budget money, we will demine the area. This report also no doubt confirms it. And so, please, let's not make a commitment, someone was talking about it, in front of a single local self-government or regional administration. Because in these 12 counties, they are burdened with the problems and difficulties that have left the war behind in all other areas. We do not put before them obligations and solidarity Croatia on this important problem that we have to solve. Let us solidarity with the cost of demining Croatia fairly distributed to all of us in Croatia, no matter where we share Croatia. It's an elemental requirement that we can set before ourselves. Another illusion to be forgotten, although it could be said that the data speak otherwise, is that we expect the state-owned companies of the Croatian Forest, Croatian Roads, Waters, etc. demining or paying the costs of demining Croatia to a greater extent or greater than what their interests as state-owned companies are and why we would expect them to do so because we expect them to be profitable and to operate as well as all other companies, regardless of their state-owned property. What we can support and what in any way would be well commended and supported is the fact that some donors here are listed who show that social responsibility can be done in this country. Why not say that VIP-net is a pay phone so it turns out that a company is being advertised, that it should commend the VIP-net that has singled out a million and I don't know what, 300 thousand kunas in last year for demining simply as an example that can be good for others in this country to act socially responsible. Why don't we find a way to commend all those who shouldn't, and have made a big contribution to the demining of Croatia. I will mainly refer here to the United States, of course, which are traditionally the largest donor and the European Union, the Kingdom of Norway. A country that systematically spends all these years giving out big money not only for demining jobs but also for rehabilitating mine victims, for education, etc. Why not in this story also praise those units of local self-government, regional administrations that also give their pain more than others. I come from Sisak-Moslavina County from the city of Sisak and as shown in this report, the town of Sisak and County have found a way to, say 15 minutes each Wednesday to sponsor a 15-minute show with the theme of mine action, that the Sisak theatre "Daska" played 10 plays "No, not us" that included two thousand children. It's small, negligible small money compared to one child's life. Can we support, can the county support, can we from the central state structure support this educational show to every village, to every district school in places where mine problems exist. We can't deal with it now. It's been 10 years, 11 years since the war, and we're slowly forgetting the mine problem. He's just there, he's alive, he's a living memory of actually the trauma and tragedy we've experienced as a people in that war. So from this report as a warning to conclude, I see two possible conclusions. It is one that I have offered here to the Croatian Parliament to adopt and invite you to accept it, to bind not only this government but all the governments that will come in years to come, to ensure 0.5% of the budget for demining costs until the entire territory of Croatia is demined. At this moment, looking at last year's budget and the demining budget is only 0.17% of the state budget, which is 150 million, at an opportunity of 150 million kuna and last and this year. An increase to 0.5% means providing about 450 million kuna. I call on us to stop being hypocritical. Let's face it, this thing is important to us, and for this thing we're going to give so much money, and we're not going to give for someone else. Yeah, because it's the decision of us living in this country. Whether this is going to be 0.5, 0.4 or 0.8 may be less important, but it is important that we bear witness to what we are doing here regardless of political orientations because there is no point in repeating this debate over this report next year. It doesn't make sense, what if it doesn't stand behind it and some concrete conclusion of this kind that I offer you, colleagues and colleagues, so it's not a burden on this government, it's a burden on that government that comes behind it and that kind of thing because if we increased to 0.5%, then that would mean that instead of 43 years, we're cutting the demining period by looking at financial resources to about 12 or 13 years from now. Another thing we need to ask the Croatian Mine Action Centre, which has the capacity of professional, to simply inogate the strategy and to stop telling ourselves that by 2010, we will have Croatia without mines because it is simply not possible, it is not a real deadline and stop the illusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66435	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Nenad Stazic. He's gone. Then Mr. Representative Vladimir Stengl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66436	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Mine suspected areas as a consequence of the war in the Republic of Croatia have 12 counties. Only this information without indicating the area under suspicion or other data and the characteristics of mine suspected spaces speaks enough about what and how much problem it is and how responsible, sensitive and certainly extremely dangerous business it is. So when we find ourselves in a situation where the roads have been closed for a while, we have to respect that, let us not be impatient because it is better to do this job when it is already determined than to wait for another potentially better opportunity or when we are not there. It is a significant factor throughout the problem and the financial side, i.e. it is necessary on the one hand and the resources available on the other. We see from the report that the achievement of the plan, when it comes to areas, is 94.2%. I think that's a good thing, especially when weather conditions are a factor that determines the possibility of working on the ground, and they, therefore, cannot plan or order weather conditions. I also know that it's mostly torn surfaces that the whole business can slow down. I mean, it's not a simple calculation, so many square meters, so many people times so many days plus money and it's over. It's a little more complicated, and it just has to be respected. Of course, one factor that affects all of this is the price, and when we see that the average price for searching is 7.48 kuna, and for demining 10.70 kuna without VAT, you know a little bit it turns out that you should decide to do that job. From the analysis of the structures of the mined surfaces and the surfaces searched, it is evident that agricultural land with 55% share prevailing, and this is extremely significant. I think of the county I come from because there are also, in some ways, gardens that aren't so small in those parts and those people who are coming back or who have come back very much. The demining plan against sources of funding was opened with 96.7%, so slightly more than the surface plan. This is, however, within the limits that can be justified without the rest. I agree with the predecessors in the debate that these are still insufficient funds and it will take a large number of years to fully demining that pace, but let's hope that the situation will change for the better, so it will go at a faster pace. It's a good thing the donations didn't fail, they exceeded the plan and thank the donors. Thank you very much to the donors. The state budget has made a commitment at 100%, with slightly less legal persons and authorities of the state administration and local self-government. Overall, the financial side was achieved by 96.7%. I think it should be stressed that the cooperation between the Croatian Mine Action Centre and the local self-government units is of great importance. Of course, regional, or regional self-government. Because at the level of local self-government, however, needs are best known, or priorities when it comes to areas to be treated. However, there may be misunderstandings when it comes to donors, especially the parties, because they probably have their own criteria in their best interest, which may seem strange and sometimes unacceptable. I remember an example where we proposed to the announced donors a street that's on the east way out of town. It was certainly necessary to do so, all the exiles returned there and then came to ask how many residents there were, how many returnees there were, how many have been found from the reintegration time, how many children there were, etc. Blue and brown eyes haven't wondered, and I don't know how anyone gets a haircut. But here, I guess they have, I say, some of their own rules and we've respected it and thank them for demining that space because the children were constantly in danger of bumping into the mined space and it would be evil. However, if the Croatian Mine Action Centre is firmly running the process, and there is no reason not to do so, everything can be solved in the best possible way by respecting local self - government suggestions. However, if all efforts and everything done were to yield results, it shows a marked decline in the number of deaths, and if hunters and fishermen were to behave a little more responsibly, the victims would be even less. In that case, if this were the case, a respected counterpart, Kovacevic, would be denied, who derived the report of the victims and the forecast of the victims from such data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66437	Thank you very much. Ms. Representative Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. She's gone, she's losing her right. Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66438	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Now let's focus this debate on what we have in the report and here's what we've heard. In fact, we know what it's like to be dynamics a year, planned to be 20 miles [32 km] square, demined 27 kilometers [27 km] square. It has a thousand 174 kilometers of square that still needs to be mined. So, if it were to go 27km square yearly, that means Croatia would be mineless in 2049 or 2050. Well, you can add up for 43 years, which one of us is going to be alive and welcome it. You each add 43 years. Then we heard the second, if it were to go along with this variant that these 32km squares are planned to be carried out, that means that Croatia would be without mines in 2043. Now I'm listening to Mr. Vidovic, someone's been doing him a bad mathematical pattern because look, to raise money for this 300 million a year is being set aside, so 32 kilometers. It would take 11 billion kuna for Croatia. I don't know where his data came from, it's incorrect. 11 billion kuna. The state budget is somewhere around 100 billion kuna, 0.5% is half a billion kuna, not a billion. According to him, Croatia would have lost its mines for 22 years, which means 2028. So none of these variants are what we want to achieve here. We, if that's what we're going to do, I'd be happy to have 2 billion each year, and then we'll come to that part that in five years, we'll have Croatia without mines. Here's what we need to talk about today, how in what way this part is achieved, rather than bidding if it stands out as much or as much, or this variant is certainly not acceptable to Croatian citizens, as Mr Vidovic said on behalf of the SDP Club. Because that would mean 2028 that Croatia would be mineless. We know the statistics ourselves, unfortunately, so you do the math. According to these data, it means 13 people per year get hurt, so multiply by 22. So that's a pretty big number, 22 years times 13. It's something about 360 people are going to get hurt in that time, and in the worst variations towards the team, don't let God accomplish it, I say 569 if they were to be demined within 43 or 481 people if they were to be taken away within 37 years, and unfortunately, if 4 died 174 a year, that's 172 people died, so let's talk about how much they should be singled out. Therefore, the situation is what it is, but we must no longer deal with such a situation because this dynamic is not satisfactory and we need to find opportunities for Croatia to stand out more annually than to bid whether it will be 2050, 2028, within 4.5 years. That's where we need to talk about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66439	Thank you. Before I give the replica, let's welcome the delegation of the pensioners' union from Istria who are now joining us at the gallery. The replica has Mr. Vidovic. [[Applause.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66440	Col. Kovacevic, first eye of the calculation itself. If we're talking about 2005 and the demining expenditure, then we have to take the 2005 budget, it was 86 billion. You can't take the money now that's... 2005 and next year's budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not working, it's not a good bill. That's 0.17% of last year's budget. If the budget is 100 billion, if it's 100 billion, it's 0.5%. That's 500 million kuna. Now, buddy, if we really want to solve the problem, let's stop fantasizing. Well, we can't give 5 billion or 2 billion, we can't give it. So let's be serious. So we seriously have to solve the problem, but if we triple the money from 150 we get to 500 million kuna, then we've done something more serious than what you're offering. Well, the government won't accept 2 billion. They won't accept it, so we have other needs in this country, so they'll answer you. I appeal to be realistic, yet we are looking optimally for ways to solve the problem. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66441	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66442	Mr. Vice President, you see, because of your demagogy, we are in a situation like this, but you didn't even listen when I spoke for the club. It was said that, the level was 300 million a year, 300 million, and on that basis I went out. If you don't know the math, go and count. That's, I guess, here's the question of the Matt of the Church, he'll explain it to you easily. So you're offering a solution for people getting hurt. The time you're talking about 300 people will get hurt. What are you talking about? Four people will die every year and you're talking about something. Well, you didn't do anything in that area. We have to make a deal if it takes 2 billion, then we're out 2 billion, not for all sorts of nonsense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66443	It's Mr. Representative Mato Raven. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66444	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Whether or not it was a demagogy of the fact that we still have about a thousand and 150km of square mine suspected surfaces and this is the third time we have discussed the problem of demining Croatia and I don't think I would have done anything wrong if I read now my debate that I had on 17 September 2004 on this issue. My predecessors have said a lot and I don't think that in general none of us can be satisfied with the state and speed that Croatia is freed from mines, mine suspected surfaces, and we can't possibly be satisfied with this kind of black prognosis of fellow Kovacevic, who theoretically comes to how many people might die. If they do not go there as Mr. Stengl said they will probably not die by the law of probability, but we cannot go with those settings but I believe that we must speak as responsible people something else, ask that, reading of course this report, which is almost all taxed, we are looking for models how we will free Croatia as soon as possible, and that is a crucial question. Find a way to secure the funds. It cannot be and cannot stand for the demining plan of the Croatian state space for 2005 to be based, among other things, on the priorities of the county and public and other legal persons in the Republic of Croatia for the removal of mine dangers. I believe that none of these 12 units of regional (regional) self-government have shown lack of interest but vice versa. She has shown maximum interest and concern to get rid of mine suspected areas as soon as possible in order to enable locals and all those who come on various grounds from unacquainted hikers to hunters, fishermen to safely walk on any part of the Republic of Croatia, but unfortunately, as insufficient and state budgets are even greater problems in local self-government units when it comes to local budgets. I would not like to open the topic of decentralisation or the problems that we are all familiar with here but the fact is that 150 million kuna a year as we singled out last year, something under 150 million kuna from the state budget is not enough and that for the next 43 years, we will also have problems with mines in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The war started in '91. 15 years have passed and in 15 years we have done relatively little to demining Croatian space. Statistics say how many people died, I will say only for the area of Brod-Posavina County that unfortunately since '91. Until last year 79 people were killed in the area of the county in mine incidents, of which 12 were fatal, and 18 with severe bodily damage, about a mile from the city center, from the centre of the town of Brod, which is the 6th largest city in Croatia. Fortunately this year, or last year, we ended up demining the local field, and I hope there is nothing left that could endanger someone else's life. I am pleased, and this report shows that all the doubts have finally been solved and about the construction of the mine-information system to be transferred from analogue to digital form or system as the mine-information system is said, that all military-topographic maps are transferred from analogue to digital form or system, and that data is therefore being entered and created one quality digital database but it will not be enough and we will really have to do everything to finish this second phase of making a digital ortho photo so that all those who, I don't know, go on hunting or who have made it possible in a greater life-threatening way to have quality insight so that at least they know where in the next 40 years, if nothing changes can't be made, or that they move more. What concerns me particularly about these 12 counties located in the mine suspected area unfortunately three counties from Slavonia have again and last year shown the smallest area of demining, so here is Brodo-Posavia County, one of which in the total number of areas still needs to be cleaned participates with 11%. It's about, unfortunately, processed agricultural areas. It's quality forest land, but what's most important is still unfortunately, I repeat, unfortunately, the areas that were destroyed during the Homeland War. It's about areas of special state concern where not even a return is possible. It's not even possible to rebuild. And then it still speaks enough of its complexity of the problems with which we are both in the area of Brodo-Posavina County and so Požeško-Slavonska and Vukovar-Srijemska face. I hope that when we get the budget this year for next year that we'll have in our ear what we almost all said. And that we will advocate and primarily expect the Ministry of Resort and the Government to plan enough resources in the State Budget, and if this does not happen, I ask colleagues to take care of what they have said and to support together as much resources as possible, planned resources in the State budget in order to make time for the demining of Croatian spaces as short as possible. Of course, I'm also pushing for a new national strategy because this is obviously part of the past. It's no longer worth fooling yourself or anyone else. From the national strategy that was adopted and which we said about "2010". Croatia without mines" will unfortunately have to extend until 2020, 2030 or 2040, and some years if it stays this way. And to conclude from this state, unfortunately we have two Croatians. Not only for the national gross social product, not only for the diversity of fiscal potentials but also for this very difficult and complex problem of two Croatias, one under mines. And it's been a long time. And fortunately one without mines. I believe that we who are currently in the area below mines want to get into a mine-free position as soon as possible, and therefore I appeal once again to all that we really find ways of all together to ensure that the necessary resources are provided that when we discuss this problem again, we do not speak the same way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66445	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66446	Your Honor, just a little bit, just to clarify this part about these evaluations. In your report, you have data from 1998 to 2005 that 262 people were killed. So that's where the average would be 33 people a year if it got hurt. I took for this part, one estimate, the basis of last year where it's far less. So 13 got killed. And if that's what counts, unfortunately, there are these figures I've been talking about, and there's always got to be an assessment in these kinds of jobs. Mr. Secretary of Defense, you know it's always an assessment when it comes to military matters. I said, "Don't let God make this happen, let a year's one suffer, God forbid." But we must be aware of what is the situation, what is the area under mines? Which area is suspicious and what might happen if I don't say in the black forecasts that so many people stay, they die. So 172 people are considered dead for four years, we're not talking about the number of wounded and injured. And if you were to take this one that 33-year-old average so far gets hurt, it's unfortunately 1419 people. Worse. Which, unfortunately, could happen, but hopefully we'll take measures not to talk about it anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66447	Thank you. Mr. Mato Raven's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66448	Thank you very much. My colleague Kovacevic, I fully agree with you that you and I are, and everyone else is worried if we go through this analogy that might happen. So the assessment of the situation and the loss and everything else, that's what we know. But I think we all have to push back together, and I'm going to repeat that we provide as much funds as we can primarily from local, domestic sources, from the state budget. It is expected that the public companies will go better before they are privatised, and that there will be no donation to solve this burning problem as soon as possible, I believe that neither of us is intended to find again, in a year, that unfortunately so many of our fellow citizens are either seriously wounded or lost their lives. Controling the entire area under mine suspected surfaces is not possible. We are in favour, and here we will have today, that is, until the end of this session and the topic of declaring the Nature Park of the Lastovo Islands. Today, we heard that, unfortunately, there is also a part of the area of mine suspected surfaces. It's the same situation with Kopac's ass in a secure reserve. It's not possible to get in, and we'd like to take a step. So I agree with you when it comes to losses, but let's do everything we can to make these losses as little or as possible not at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66449	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Finally, on behalf of the promoter, that is, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior Mr Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66450	Thank you very much. Here I have followed the very carefully debate of all parliamentary representatives and I think it is clear that this is one of the few topics where there is really no politicisation and that has united all MPs regardless of party membership and especially what is important to point out that there is clear that this problem is not solved without the solidarity of all Croatia. What Commissioner Gavran said is that there are two Croatians in this part of the problem there are indeed two Croatians, and we are well aware that these problems will not be solved without the solidarity of the entire Croatia. I also live in the area of Osijek-Baranja County which I would say is one of the most polluted parts of the county by mine explosive means and I know what the problem is when people have to wait and in the process of demining when the road closes every 45 minutes, when it opens, when, indeed, these are huge problems. Those potentials that some mine-polluting areas have cannot be used because of this problem and it is definitely a problem which is both economic and social and health and one I would say, I would dare say one of the largest in the Republic of Croatia. What is also clear that these units of local and regional self-government cannot solve it alone, and as I pointed out without solidarity throughout Croatia, surely this problem will not be solved for a whole number of years. It is evident that the most financing is from the state budget and through the state budget the government needs to show that the two Croatias exist, but that the differences between the two Croatias are shrinking more and more every day. And thank God there was this other Croatia that did not suffer and that during the war has shown solidarity and we expect it to show solidarity in the coming years that are ahead of us. What I can say is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will certainly try to find funds from other sources, so that the Minister of the Interior on a recent visit to the European Commission has also discussed that the demining projects are also nominated for funds from pre-accession funds. There will certainly be a ministry that will not be able or an institution that will not be able to simply absorb those funds provided for by pre-accession funds for individual purposes. Consideration should be given to re-purpose and re-locate those funds for these needs as well. And final. We are all aware of this problem, and I hope, because I cannot speak on behalf of the Government, but only on behalf of the ministry that such unanimity and consent will be shown when the budget is adopted, and the Ministry of Interior will, in the context of its participation in the state budget, seek to provide greater funds for implementation, demining Croatia. But we will also surely engage in finding additional funds that have not been used so far. Thank you very much for the really open and quality debate and we will certainly, based on this until the budget is drawn up, try to secure additional funds from the budget. We will also engage in discussions with the European Commission in order to try to secure from pre-accession funds significantly higher because I think it is clear to all of us that by this dynamic we will not solve this problem in a time that is somewhat acceptable for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66451	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66452	The report on the implementation of the demining plan for the Croatian state space and spent financial resources for 2005. I'm giving the vote a conclusion. The report on the implementation of the demining plan of the Croatian state space and spent financial resources for 2005 is hereby accepted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 84 for, 4 abstentions, 3 against. The proposed conclusion has been adopted. We have another proposal for the conclusion of MP Davorko Vidovic, who reads. The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes that in the preparation of the State budget for 2007 and the years following, it provides 0.5% of the budget for the cost of demining the Republic of Croatia until the entire area of the Republic of Croatia is mine-free. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 23 for, 3 abstentions, 62 against. The conclusion didn't get the required majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66453	We move to the agenda point - Report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in 2005; According to the HAZU Act, this report was submitted. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the report at the session. Does the Proposer want to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Mr. Slavko Cvetnič, Secretary-General of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66454	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the Parliament. The activities of the Academy took place in 9th grade, 17 scientific units and 15 scientific councils of academics in 2005. In the yearbook there are data on the composition of the class, on the whole of their activity, on all the documents received and accepted, on the work of all the institutions and committees which are included in the class, on lectures and meetings in the organisation of the class or academy, and on the activities of each member within or outside the academy. In the yearbook, it can be read that the members of the academy published hundreds of scientific, professional articles and discussions, or presented numerous works of art. Accordingly, there were no recognitions, so 3 members of the academy received a state reward for life's work, and in addition several institutions and associations awarded awards and high recognitions to individual members of the Academy for their scientific and artistic work. The Academy, scientific research activities take place except in classes and in other units such as shelters, centres, laboratories and cabinets. The Academy has 17 such units in and out of Zagreb. In Zagreb, 8 of them are active. They are listed in the report that you received individually, and the other 9 units are located outside Zagreb, two units based in Dubrovnik, one in Split, Zadar, Rijeka, Varazdin, Osijek, Vinkovci and Trsten. A new scientific research unit was established last year in Bjelovar. The scientific research unit of the Academy worked on 46 scientific and collaboration projects during 2005. It's about so-called parent projects. Therefore, projects whose research is mainly carried out in the academy and whose main researchers are exclusively or regularly members of the academy or other scientists from the academy institutions and institutes. The total annual funding for 47 scientific projects delivered from the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports to the Academy for the past year amounted to 2 million 221 thousand 479 kuna. In addition to these projects at the Academy, a number of other scientific and artistic tasks were realized during 2005, which were defined by individual classes, their committees, and, in particular, by the scientific councils and museum gallery units as the goal of their scientific and artistic activities over a long period of time. I'll just mention the numerical data. 39 scientific gatherings, 11 solemn sessions, 26 lectures by prominent scientists and artists, 9 book presentations, 35 exhibitions and 9 commemorative meetings dedicated to the memory of the deceased members of the academy. In scientific and research, museum-gallery and academy expert units last year, there were 228 employees, 3 more than in 2004. 12 senior assistants, 22 assistants, 11 junior assistants and professional associates, 20 employees of the museum-gallery profession and 31 scientific recruits. In addition, the academy has 16 employees in library jobs, 7 in archival jobs, and 99 employees and tenants doing administrative, financial and auxiliary jobs. The museum-gallery activities include gliptotheque, cabinet graphics, Strossmayer's gallery of old masters and the Croatian Museum of Architecture. During 2005, Gliptotheque exhibited significant activity with 24 exhibitions, 10 promotions and presentations, and other events such as concerts, charity auctions, presentations, etc. 6 exhibitions were organised in the graphics cabinet, also with appropriate catalogues. They've also been released, and five CDs have been released to exhibits. Strossmayer's gallery of old masters was open to the public until March 25, 2005, when it was closed for preparing for the exhibition of Strossmayer's gallery on April 8, 1905, the donation of Bishop Josip Jurj Strossmayer. The exhibition opened on 8 April, and on 6 October 2005 a permanent gallery space was reopened. The Croatian Museum of Architecture, which acts as a separate academy unit during 2005 held 5 exhibitions. All exhibitions are accompanied by appropriate catalogues and in public appropriately commented. Due to museum exhibits, the collection of museum exhibits has been increased by six new donations. The archives and libraries work within the professional service of the Academy. Their important activities are detailed in the summer report. The archive continued the process of computerising the entire activity of the archive, made and adopted a Regulation on the operation of archives and storage of archive materials. For the purpose of the archives, they started with the arrangement and equipment of the vault space in the basement at Strossmayer square number 2. The vault is being arranged to store the most valuable archive materials and other academia units. In 2005 a list of the editions of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts was completed in the library, which numbered 143 volumes. The computer system in the library is in full function, and the database of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts published included more than 20,000 units at the end of 2005. The total library fund was increased in 2005 by 2 000 424 volumes of books and 880 complete years of periodicals, and with 12 CD-ROMs. Most of the refurbished books were obtained by purchase, a large number of gift notebooks, while replaced by a refurbishment, while a replacement was renewed 483 volumes of books. That's as much as four times as the previous year. The inventory included 276 notebooks of an old unprocessed fund. In 2005 our academy also sent about a thousand 100 volumes to scientific institutions in Croatia and the world and donated over 450 volumes of its editions. The donors were different libraries throughout Croatia. The Academy's network server contains up-to-date data on the presidency, alphabetical list of regular members, members of co-workers and post-members of the Academy, alphabetical list of academics and classmates, class information, scientific councils and committees, history of the Academy, calendar of events, publishing activity, access to the online library catalogue, list of publications, academic projects, telephone and e-mail address books, notifications, information about units in the Academy system, and personal pages and other. The personal pages are represented by individual academics, co-workers, letter members, researchers, unit leaders and employees, and individual units within the academy. The personal pages of individuals show biographical and bibliographic data. At the end of 2005, she had 113 academics, 29 co-workers, 40 letter members, and 45 researchers at the academy. All that says is that the academy and its work are completely public. It is already mentioned that there are other forms of scientific work at the academy. So last year, 15 scientific councils worked within the Academy. The councils are particularly listed in the report, so I wouldn't bother with that. In addition, an International Committee for the Research of Boxes, Clays and Aluminium, the Committee on People's Life and Customs, and the Croatian Cristolographic Community work. In these councils and bodies not only are members of the academy but also scientists and experts outside the academy and abroad. During 2005, scientific councils organized six scientific meetings, as well as several round tables, lectures and annual congregations. All this shows that the work of especially some councils was appropriate and in the summer paper is detailed. Special activity has shown the recently established Scientific Council for the State Administration, the judiciary and the rule of law organised in three times by the highly visited round tables dedicated to the reforms of the Croatian judiciary and the administration and the anti-corruption programme. The Academy's publishing activity also paid special attention to publishing activities last 2005. Among these titles, therefore published works, published works cover numerous scientific and artistic areas, and among these titles are some titles presented as follows, social sciences 25 volumes, mathematical, physical and chemical sciences 3 volumes, natural sciences 6, medical sciences 2, philology 4 volumes, literature 11, art 10, music art and musicology 5, technical sciences 16 volumes, academy as a roof institution of 8 volumes. In addition, 48 titles were printed with support from the Academy, the Academy Foundation, so 141 volumes of various publications were published last year. In 2005, the academy also paid attention to the problem of the availability of all books and magazines to readers and users. She has done so in many ways and has made it available to her books on the bookcases of other publishers at a favourable price for her editions. Second, by exchanging books with libraries and institutions abroad and abroad and by forming the already mentioned academy of electronic catalogues whose libraries, our books that are on public use on the Internet. In January 2006, a public presentation of the annual Academy of Publishing Activities was held, and an appropriate exhibition of all editions from 2005 was held in the lobby of the Academy of Palace, all of which was appropriate in the accompanying press on radio and television. For the illustration I would like to state only one piece worth mentioning, which is the first one, which I can mention first, which is Croatia and Europe culture science and art whose 2 volumes in French were printed last year. There are other headlines mentioned in the report, so please meet me there. The publishing activity is also represented on the web. Namely, the latest numbers of work for social sciences, music arts and music as well as work plans for 2006 and catalogues showing publishing activities from 1999 to 2005 are available throughout the scope of the website of publishing activities. And allow a few words basically on the 2005 financial report. The total funds held by the Croatian Academy last year amounted to 68 million 487 thousand 906 kuna and were more than 8 million less than the 2004 funding, which will have long-term negative consequences for the Academy's work. This amount is mostly covered by the state budget, in particular 82.1%, and then by other sources of funding provided by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the Ministry of Culture, the City Office for Culture Zagreb, County, cities and other legal and physical persons as a percentage of 14.0% as well as the funds achieved by the academy's own activity with 3.9%. The final accounts of the Academy for 2005 show that the entire business of the Academy was spent on 62 million 630 thousand 718 kuna, thus achieving an surplus of revenue over expenditure of 5 million 857 thousand 188 kuna. The over-income shown is the result of the rational and modest business of the Academy, but also other circumstances that have led to the fact that all the insurance funds have not been spent in the current year, for example, funds for the Croatian and European publishing projects and funds for working on research projects whose realisation continues this year. Therefore, the excess revenue shown over expenditure is not free but reserved funds for the long-term project of the Academy, and especially for capital investment of construction arrangements in Strossmayer Square 14 for the needs of the new academy library. In addition to the funds provided by the state budget for regular activity, the Academy has, in accordance with its statute, dedicated funds for scientific research that have been found by the accumulation of savings over the past ten years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66455	I thank the Secretary General of the Academy, Mr. Slavko Cvetnic. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? Yeah. The chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Mr. Peter Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66456	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary-General of the Academy, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in 2005 at the 23rd session of 31st May and 1st June, because... extensive. [[You don't understand.]] The committee discussed the issue as a parent working body. The opening argument was submitted by the representatives of the motionors, namely the rapporteurs of the report and the president of the Croatian Academy, Academyman Moshes himself. A representative of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports met the participants of the session with the content of a favourable opinion on the report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts in 2005, i.e. on the work of the Academy in the reporting period. The participants agreed first and foremost with the surrounding fact that recent disagreements arised in the wake of the election of new members of the Academy who were publicly presented inappropriate, incomplete and sometimes cartoonally, do not apply to the period relevant to this report and should not be reflected in the assessment of the Academy's work in 2005. So we're talking about the 2005 report, the event in question, took place in 2006. On the basis of the 2005 report, this work was assessed as generally favourable, useful and consistent with the legal and statutes of the Academy and the report can be accepted. In the programme section, successes were achieved in terms of publishing activities of scientific meetings, implementation of research projects, successes both in terms of the number of areas covered and some of the results achieved, including special attention should be paid to the continued publication of the research and publishing project Croatia and Europe. The financial side of the report is also acceptable, as is the case in the light of the programme's achievements. Committee members and other participants accept the information provided by the representatives of the report and the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports towards which there were no financial irregularities, and any misunderstandings that sometimes arised as the academy achieves its own income, then because of the nature of individual expenditures, then because of the reserved funds achieved by the budget, but which extend to multi- budget years due to the nature of the work, such as this particular project "Europe and the world". Next, by moving to the achievement of budgetary revenues and expenditure through a single State Treasury account. So, I say, all these problems are mostly successfully removed or removed in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance. The work of the Academy, held by the Committee, should be expected to be more thorough and professional media contributions corresponding to the law of the established role of the Academy and the real state painted here for 2005. When it comes to internal disagreements on the situation in the Academy and its organisational forms, the principles and procedure of elections in membership and other topical and development issues, the Committee is of the opinion that members of the Academy of Croatian Parliament should be called upon to put these and other questions on the agenda and be declared in the scientific, professional and administrative bodies of the Academy, using those forms of autonomous action which enables them to act by law and the Academy's statute. Otherwise, both members of the academy and other scientists in its organisational forms will be caught every time by discussions, interpretations and suggestions in the public and the media, which we have already spoken about and what should not be spent too much on this occasion. The Committee reached its next conclusion. The Committee proposes that the Croatian Parliament accept a report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66457	Thank you very much. Does a government official want to take a word for it? State Secretary Mr Drazen Vicic-Topic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66458	... Ladies and gentlemen, well, after these beautiful and extensive reports, I mean, I don't have much to add anymore. [[Specially enabled.]] As for the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, we participate with about 3% of the funding through those 47 scientific projects and through recruits of scientists who go along with these projects. And we absolutely agree with this report, which was presented to both the Ministry and of course. And we have manifested ourselves that we have no objections to all eight chapters, and as far as Mr. Peter Selem's finances are concerned, he explained the same thing. Well, here, that would be brief. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66459	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the PGS Club, SBHS, MDS, Mr. Representative Ivo Banac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66460	Dear Mr. Vice President, academia Cvetnic, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have a report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts in 2005. Last year, at this time, I was among the few MPs who even referred to the 2004 report of our academy, but I think my then critical remarks at least partially bear fruit. Today's report is somewhat more exhaustive, the data is somewhat more transparent, it's being entered with a little more seriousness into various aspects of HAZU's work. But the biggest problems remain. The Academy remained a completely closed facility, whose administration obviously doesn't think that this Parliament and this Croatia owes anything but the most suspicious information, especially when it comes to the financial business of the Academy, that I am not talking about the meaning of the work of the HAZU. Right away, I'm embarrassed to hear this, and here is receiving an academic named Cvetnic, Secretary General of HAZU, whom I greatly appreciate and who is least responsible for this condition. However, since the president of the academy who is bound to attend parliamentary receptions, but not at parliamentary debates, and vice presidents of the academy obviously do not consider this debate so important that they would appear in this House representing the Croatian people. With all apologies, I must say this. The work of the Croatian Academy, which had not been a subject of public interest for years, has become due to the poor management of the HAZU and the creation of a mediacritical critical mass in the membership of the HAZU. From now on, such reports will simply not be acceptable. That is why we cannot live on the state budget, and at the same time require the privilege of almost secretive untouchableness. The PGS Club, SBH, the IMF will not vote in favour of accepting the HAZU Work Report for 2005. In public these days, a miraculous decision by the HAZU election assembly is being debated not to join the ranks of regular members of the famous and highly respected geneticist Miroslav Radman. Part of the reason for such a decision, if we can call them that at all, can be figured out from the letter of the academics of Zvonimir Davide to the HAZU election assembly, in which, in addition to the particularly ground-floor arguments against Radman, Radman's election of the Academy could be found in the situation of taking responsibility for, quote: "a huge material good that Radman is burdened with". David, therefore, warns of expenses. They are important to him because they are also an object of special interest bordering corruption, and they have evolved greatly in the ranks of the academy. For example, pursuant to Article 36. The statutes of the HAZU, paragraphs 2 and 3 of the regular members who are members of the Academy's presidency are also special awards. These awards can also be determined to perform other functions in the academy. The amount of these awards is determined by the special decision it makes, of course, just the chairmanship of the academy. In other words, the presidency determines its own payments, and that neither membership nor the public, nor this Assembly can know anything about it. The Bureau is being joined by the secretary and class representatives. In fact, you don't know who's on the list of prizes or what their fees are or why they're being paid. According to some sources, about 50 members receive these fees. They are also received by the presidents of various councils that some of these councils do not meet once every two years, paid off and the secretaries of the class do little work. At the request of the Bureau, it shall also be paid to the deputy secretaries who literally do nothing. Any activity of editing magazines that do not appear for years to covert service in certain publications, etc. No wonder academic Davide's worried. It could happen that the academy's budget is rationalized, that it is directed to research activity or to others, to become a part of creativity. We can't let that happen. We're not that kind of academy. I'm going to say something about the effects of fear of being an average member of the HAZU. I wouldn't go into disciplines I don't know, so I'm just going to look at some first-class examples. In fact, there is an entrenched and fully mediocre opinion that success in scientific work is measured by the number of bibliographic units. According to this criterion, the people who wrote every strike recorded to the smallest Quartet shipyard "Medjure" and discovered more than the August process of Joseph Broz, became regular members of the Academy, and that our knowledge of history did not move even a millimeter because history as well as other social disciplines tend to understand the individual phenomena of human society. Science is not a string of precisely established banality. It requires a parchment, it requires meaning, it seeks a context, it insists on a comparative, it is not a letter in an obscenity weekly or a coffee conversation, let's say, on the Iranian theory of Croatian origin. But to make things happier, mediocrity history is not just something, it is not just an understandable phenomenon in the first class. We'll find it in second grade for mathematical, physical and chemical science. Here we have a historicalizing mathematician who discovered, please, that Josip Juraj Strossmayer was a perfectly acceptable Croatian nationalist. Since it has long since been discovered by academic Vasilija Krestic, a member of another academy with different priorities, it is not clear why it was necessary to move from Belgrade to make such a announcement. The problem is, colleagues and colleagues, that our Academy does not caress the winds of world trends or contacts. Although it is only necessary to open a window that certainly exists in our small environment just by means of people like Radman, those who open windows are deliberately bypassed. The mediocres don't like the contest. They reject competence, they establish a monopoly and knowingly rule out. For example, academic Par literally says that Radman's case is about strategy, literally the Croatian Academy's strategy. He says, quotes: "The question is strategy and decision, and as far as I know, the presidency has the view that the workings are those who work daily and who have done a great deal of their scientific work in Croatia." It's a nice strategy. Moreover, the same strategist says, I quote: "Tesla and Prelog were also not regular members of the HAZU. What would happen if all correspondence members became regular?" He wonders and says, quote, "The next few years no one could ever become a member of the HAZU." It's a nasty thing, terrible. The membership of Radman or Paška Rakić would close the door... Friends who do internationally unrecognized jobs on a daily basis. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't think it's necessary to point out the effects of such a science strategy and society in general in our country. Young scientists, members of humanistic, social disciplines, thinking people generally socialize in relativizing excellence. The message is an obstacle to membership in the highest scientific institution of the nation is not mediocrity but rather the opposite of international recognition. You have a choice. Daily work with Vladimir Para or Dubravko Jelcic with a perceptive membership in HAZU or an international success that hides from the native public as the largest heresy, as large as that of Petric,... , Dominis or Boskovics because none of them can say for sure would agree to daily work at Paro's workshop, so like Tesla and Prelog would never be real candidates for regular membership in HAZU. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, since it is not a secret that the strategy applied by HAZU has no effect beyond the Croatian borders that in the dark west, which ensnars so many evil complexes yet rewards the excellence of generations of ambitious young people and Western universities, of course for the benefit of host countries, risking the chance of achieving regular membership in the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts. Further effects are the relativisation of all criteria, which is actually the right topic for the most representative body of this country, for the Croatian Parliament. We're going the way we're going because our elite has exactly our completely unclassified, completely non-binding, completely relativizing way. So what do you do with the Academy? There are votes to deny further financial support for the closure of the Croatian Academy. I don't think that would be good. The Academy must open up, accept an internal reform plan, make a revision and reduce the number of members, rationalise its costs, consider priorities, but not in its dedicated rooms, but in the public. The critics of the work of the current leadership must step out of the illegal, seek out a series of extraordinary meetings and not allow themselves to slow down with various bureaucratic tricks in the hands of the paleopolitan machine HAZU. In fact, the problems of HAZU are the problems of all transition institutions, only in Zrinski Square 11 have many not heard that there is freedom of speech and freedom of thought in Croatia. That state science is a thing of the past. And a lot more. Very, very many others. In the spirit of total openness, I would add that I myself am a member of the HAZU, although you will not find me on the personal pages of letter members at the Academy of Sites. I think you can guess why? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66461	Thank you very much. With all this good and critical we heard it would be good to concentrate on 2005 It's Mrs. Vesna Skare-Ozbolt's turn. [[/Intruder: That's right.]] She's gone. Mr. Representative Slaven Letica. He's not here either. Mr. Representative Krešimir Cosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66462	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, please allow a brief review of this report for 2005. I had the opportunity to talk last year and last year about reports for 2003 and 2004, and if a man does a very simple analysis and compares these reports to one another, then he will have to realise that these reports are mostly similar and that it is almost very difficult to recognize what these are difficult topics Akadmia deals with and how it adapts its limited resources to the ongoing problems of Croatian society? I think it's certainly important to find out. Reports from year to year are inadmissible to resemble each other today. I'm just quoting parts of the report. 2004. In the paper, on the work of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, it was among other things: "It was another successful year for our academy in all areas." 2003 report the same. "It was for our academy another successful year in all fields of scientific and artistic work and because of these facts last year I repeated it and here it happened, however, that such a report and such a comment on the work for 2005 are not in this report. It was likely, however, that we were right to expect more from the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts as a commanding scientific institution. For a number of reasons. Not only the formal ones but I will say the following: and because of the fact that only membership of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts is impressive certainly when it comes to those formal characteristics. On December 31st 2005, the report reads: "The Croatian Academy had 145 regular members, 101 in scientific, 44 in art classes. It follows that at the end of last year, the Academy had a total of 356 members in all categories. You will certainly agree undeniably that this is a significant human capacity, a resource of knowledge that should leave far more large traces in Croatian society, much more present in the Croatian public. To educate the Croatian public, it is directed especially at these times when important, large, structural changes occur on the global, global political scene. In this sense, the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts should and must have taken over by justifying its important, very important social role. So the question is undeniable that this human force is something that we need and must offer more and the question remains whether this number of people and this institution correspond with the results that we have available in the public life of the Republic of Croatia. Certainly reports of the Academy begin every year with a fact that is good but also worrying, and refers to age and age. Thanks to the election of new members, there was an increase in the life of regular members of the Academy so that the average age of all academics was 74 at the end of 2005. Unfortunately, that's our reality. Croatian age in every respect and vitality, the energy of the institution is very important, but regardless of these formal reasons certainly the spiritual and intellectual potential of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in Croatian society must be more present. There are a lot of talk about the various activities of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts but much less talk about projects that, today, seem very current, vital, vitally important to the Republic of Croatia. That part of the report, in any case, in the coming years, I believe it deserves a lot more attention. The energy future of the Republic of Croatia, I was certainly present and alone on one round table is a topic that deserves more attention in view of everything that is happening in the energy sector at global, global level. The consumption is growing. Our resources are limited and in this respect much more attention and responsibility towards the energy future of the Republic of Croatia should also be focused on further and new round tables. On this occasion, I also said that the Croatian Parliament as an institution that can achieve quality communication with the Croatian public stands in the mood. Croatia based on knowledge, I would generally say says a lot, but serious projects that would show what, how to function so that real knowledge as a useful value in the most concrete way we do not have affirmatives. It was certainly two years ago that an appropriate initiative was launched by the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, which received strong and good support in the Croatian Parliament, but the work on this important project continued. I have certainly spoken in recent years, I will repeat and this time it seems to me that some topics also deserve more attention from the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, which is our recent history. The fact is that it's been 10 years since the end of the Homeland War and the fact is that it's all been talked about in the media, says one I'd say improvised, very often politicized way without seriously responsible scientificly based access to our recent history. I think that kind of responsibility is something that the academy should recognize in its future work, especially because of the fact that projects, reports, books and analyses appear on Cardell, Bakarić, Tito, etc. But these five years of the Homeland War have not earned almost any serious, professional, scientifically sound attention is inadmissible. And I'll say a few more words in the end. Finance. The Croatian Academy of Science and Arts achieved its own activity only 3.7% of the funds. I said last year, and I'm gonna do it again today. If this is the value of knowledge that the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts exchanges with Croatian society and if this is the amount of knowledge that the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts offers to Croatian society in the amount of just a few million kunas, then I think it is not too much to stress that it is insignificant, that it is not enough and in any case that part of the Croatian Academy of Science and Art's own income must have a more significant item. I end up with what was said a few years ago. The Croatian Academy of Science and Arts considers it its duty to ring the alarm. It was the preliminary thought of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts report on Croatia based on knowledge. These bells are almost no longer heard, and I think this topic deserves far more attention and Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts and will have full support here in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66463	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Representative Mato Church. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66464	Dear counterpart Ćosic stresses that reports resemble each other year by year. This is something different, even more extensive, but really not quality and qualitatively different. The truth promotes a detailed review of numerous activities, scientific, research, publishing, exhibition and others, but they are right colleagues who speak of it as a fact-finding report, as well as such introductive presentation of the respected Academywoman Cvetnić and that it speaks of activities, but does not talk about how much and how HAZU plays its part in 2005. In Croatia as it is now in 2005. Therefore, here in such reports, first of all, there should be a word about HAZU and its role and its functions in relation to the structural challenges of Croatia today. From energy, resources to modern nano and other technologies, to Croatian unemployment, over-indebtedness, etc. with strategic answers. So, academia as one of the centres where these important questions for Croatia are really well discussed and offer some answers, some alternatives about... The authorities, who propose, are heating up something that will give birth to a solution for Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is no such emphasis in this report, such qualitative assessments, so obviously neither such activity nor enough, and I fear that so much of my colleague Banac is more right than the parent board who only supports such a report or the secretary of state who thinks they are beautiful reporting, which I agree with. And that activity is very intense at the academy. But I believe in 2005 and Croatia as it is today is not enough compared to what Croatia needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66465	Thank you very much. And it's Mr. Representative Andri Hebrang's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66466	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Academy Secretary Cvetnic, Mr. Secretary of State. In front of us is the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts report for last year. But I want to point out here that this is a summary of the report. Therefore, all who are dissatisfied because they believe that this is pretentious should read the 109th book of the yearbook in which this report is found in a thousand times the size of a thousand times more details. And if such a report had come in front of these benches of our MPs, probably no one would have been able to read it. So I welcome this way of writing a summary for MPs who do not want to study the work of the academy in detail, and those who want to have it available, as I said, a comprehensive report that the Academy has given for its work over the past year in its 109th book of the year. We've heard here and some critical and well-intentioned, and I think we're used to it. Namely, the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts has been a Croatian institution since 1860, more precisely '65. A year. I should remind you that in 1860, student-srijem bishop Josip Juraj Strossmayer gave the initiative and the first 50 thousand forints for the establishment of the Academy, that the Croatian Parliament immediately made a decision on it, but waited 5 years for then for the ruler Franjo Josip to sign and the academy to start working. So, right from the beginning, she faced difficulties in her work because Josip Juraj Strossmayer said in his basic act that the Croatian Academy should gather all Croatian people who represent the top of the then, and today's knowledge, and all the professions of human science. So different critical relationships with certain tendencies are still a tradition. I would refer to this here, this summary report, and I would say that I think that it is quality made, that it happens in the year of the 190th anniversary of birth and the 100th anniversary of the death of the founder of Bishop Josip Juraj Strossmayer, and that the academy has quality marked it not only with convenient events but also with its work. I'll start with the academy chairmanship. The Bureau of the Academy held several thematic sessions with very current issues and showed that it was able to detect key problems in Croatian society and direct its scientific activities and put a service of such work with all reasonable criticism that other areas should be covered, however, it should be known that scientific research cannot monitor an event at the rate of scientific research because there is a need for certain procedures and dynamics that cannot be followed by our political developments that we produce in minutes or hours. The scientific work has its dynamics and should therefore wait for its results to be truly scientifically justified. But I would point out that there are several topics in the work of the presidency that actually affect the work mechanism itself, but also the presentations of the academy. One of the topics was dissatisfaction with the attitude of Croatian radiotelevision towards the work of the Academy and indeed this public house has never devoted quality terms to displaying the quality work of the Academy, but that is why when there is a misunderstanding we see it immediately in the first minutes of information emissions. I think we should look a little more at the national interest of both houses. I would like to warn you that the Academy responded very well and quickly to the problem of environmental aspects of the project, the company Adria, which was very important at that time and the work of the Academy was one of the guidelines for the completion of the problem of the project. In addition to the Presidency which had really extensive agendas and very high quality, I would mention international co-operation. The Academy has a lasting international cooperation with 19 countries, and last year whose report is ahead of us, has extended this to the Chinese Academy, the Israeli Academy and the Turkish Academy of Science and Arts, so in this area, I would say, events in the Croatian state. A few words would say more about the work of two categories of institutions, these are scientific research units of the Academy and they are scientific councils. Through these institutions, as respected academic Cvetnić said, you will often see for yourself if you read these papers, follow the current events, and as much as it can contribute to a scientific view of certain problems. The scientific research units of the Academy in 2005 worked on 46 scientific projects. It's a really impressive figure for whoever ran or participated in the scientific project. They also have a whole series of long-term projects that should also be taken into account in the report, and I would say a few words about scientific councils. The scientific councils may be closest to everyday reality, and they had the following subjects of research on the subject. The Transport Council which actively monitored developments in traffic development from its scientific point of view. Maritime Council, energy, agriculture and forestry. These are the councils that definitely can, and indeed contribute to solving the scientific aspect of certain economic problems. Economic research and the Croatian economy. Reconstruction and development. I'd also like to mention a new council that was founded in 2005. This is the Scientific Council for State Administration, Justice and Rule of Law which has shown that it can indeed follow up with rapid dynamics the problem which is addressed not only by this High House but also by the legislative authority of the state, and in a very short time they organised the highest level of scientific and professional debate on Croatia's biggest problems today, with international participation and in the shortest time they issued a strategy for reforming the judicial system, they issued a reform of the Croatian state administration, a report with a major such corruption rally as the fundamental problem of the Croatian state imposed in international terms, etc. So these are evidence that the academy can certainly monitor events in modern society. The publishing activity is impressive. Whoever claims to be weak, I say 93 volumes in one year is a big job, a total of 4400 notebooks. Among these 93, social sciences 25 volumes, art 10, technical science 16, literature 11 etc. I think given the number of members of our academy that it's a remarkable activity. What the report does not include and I need to say in this step, it is that during 2005, the academy kept its autonomy, which is very important, because if it affects how it has been trying lately on its status, on its humane structure and in its decision-making manner, then we cannot ask scientists for results because it will deal with everyday life and defend against the casual attacks. She also avoided various external influences which I think is very good. When I say outside, I mean out of scientific circles. She kept the public working because she intensified and modernised her website. She held an independent vote, and even in cases that are often on the agenda today, the academy has the right to decide on its own by a secret vote. If that broke the rule and that right, then I'd object to it. And finally some heavy corruption charges. If there is really some evidence, there are institutions that are going to examine it, I really don't know about it, and I agree that the academy should be on the agenda of what Mr. Cosic suggested, put the topics from the Homeland War, because in several areas the academy has shown that we can fight lies by scientific research and recommend that it extends to this particular area that has been attacked on all political sides, and there are data and there is the possibility of scientific proof of who and what has been and what has happened here. In conclusion, I think the report is positive, that it shows that the academy is going faster I would say at a pace towards current problems and given the circumstances under which it works, I think it should certainly be defeated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66467	Thank you very much. Does the chief secretary of the academy want to speak to Mr. Cvetnić? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66468	Gentlemen, I thank you for the patience you've been listening to, and I thank all those who spoke. I'll repeat the word I said two years ago when I was first here, that the academy is grateful to everyone who talks about the academy. Because the academy and the academy work are little known. And you know a little bit after this brief, summary of my report and a summary of something broader that you got in writing. The book "Letopia" every year that goes out of the academy has something over 700 this year, I think, or 600 and some pages. So it's a comprehensive act where many of the questions that are being asked here today can be answered. I am grateful, therefore, that the academy is spoken of. The illustrations work only to tell you that we were dissatisfied, chronically dissatisfied with the echo of the Academy's work in public votes, visited last year's Radiotelevision Zagreb where we spoke with the heads of the institution. This year, about a month, a month and a half ago, we invited all the editors-in-chiefs of all the main texts of Croatians who are tasked with reporting, publishing about scientific and artistic events in the Republic of Croatia. The result of all of that is more or less zero. Until about 14 days ago when individuals or individual interests made a case out of the academy. So there's the problem. So, the problem when the academy works normally, when it does what the academy has to do, and it is in secret of its, does not immediately highlight its scientific or artistic range, the result is weak or no notice. It was mentioned that the academy has 320 members. Exactly, 320 members, however, do not live in Croatia for a good part of that membership. Of the letter members, the largest number, the largest number of correspondence members is not in Croatia, and those members who are in Croatia, I am two and a half years in the capacity of the secretary-general. I haven't had many, I haven't had a chance to hear or see at the academy. Therefore, the academy is open to everyone, and especially to its membership and everything that is done at the academy, is done openly. And that's to repeat, as proof of that, is our "Flying" that comes out every year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66469	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary-General. I'm closing the debate. The vote will be when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66470	Report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in 2005 I am voting on the next conclusion, the report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in 2005 is accepted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 68 for, 17 abstentions, 6 against. The proposed conclusion accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66471	We move to the agenda point - Interpletion on the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the state of the company "Vesnik" d.d. and "Vjesnik Publishing" d.o.o. In accordance with Article 195 of the Treaty on the The Rules of Procedures of the SDP Representatives Club submitted the interpretation. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered the Interpletion Report. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. You received the report at the session. Does the applicant's representative want to further explain the interpretation? Yeah. Mr. Representative Antun Vujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66472	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Let me introduce you to the interpretation of the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the state of the company "Vesnik" d.d. And the "Vesenik of Publishing" d.o.o., which was submitted by 22 MPs. In fact, the representatives of the interpreters believe it is necessary to open a debate on government policy and government decisions on negative business results and the difficult financial situation of the "Vjesnika" d.d. and "Vjesnika Publishing" d.o.o. as well as due to the unilateral and party editorial policy of the daily newspaper "Vesnik" in state ownership because the Government of the Republic of Croatia in its work significantly deviates from the position and established policy set out in the Government of Croatia's 2003-2007 programme, presented by the Prime Minister to the Croatian Parliament on 24 December 2003 and on the basis of which the Croatian Parliament voted in confidence to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The programme referred to in point 9.6. The media, the government has established the following positions. Freedom and diversity of the media are an integral part of democracy, freedom of the media is as important as any other democratic freedom and institution, free and impartial journalism that respects the most professional and ethical standards is an important component of decision-making and decision-making based on accurate and fair facts. Under its powers, therefore, the government will continuously act to preserve and strengthen the freedom of electronic and press media. This wasn't in the first text of the interpretation, so it was brought back once, so we thought it was good to hear it also here publicly which are the points, and there will be an explanation. We can do all this extra to actually break the law and the media law which explicitly seeks the protection of pluralism of the media, and we will perform the thesis and we stand at the point that not only is media pluralism protected here, but we are questioning the little pluralism that has it. If it is assumed that "Vjesnik" is a public medium, and that almost all other media are press media, commercial or private media. "Vjesnik" d.d. is a public company owned by the state, which, with the newly formed company "Vjesnik Publisher" d.o.o., operates in the Croatian media space, and is the interest of the Republic of Croatia as a successful business of the house "Vjesnik" as a whole and successfully performing public information function by the daily "Vjesnik". Along with the printer and newspaper in "Vjesnik" there is also an extremely valuable archive and documentation that has been collected for years, it also makes public interest for the Republic of Croatia. Public information on the difficult financial situation of the "Vjesnika" d.d. is constantly publicised. which came from the "Vesenik" journal's debt. The public also reports on the continued decline in the circulation of the daily Vesnik and the inability of this diary to rely on more significant own revenues in its business. At the same time, there is a growing dissatisfaction with the fully party direction of the editorial policy of the daily Vesnik, which is based not only on its full financial dependence on the Government of the Republic of Croatia but also on the arbitrary appointment of the editorial structure conducted without public competition and advisory law of the editorial system in accordance with the law. Contrary to the law of the public and the Croatian Parliament itself, Article 12. The Media Act takes into account all information on the business and state of this state-owned public enterprise, which also operates in the media area, in "Vjesnik" d.d. There is a reorganisation that challenges the perspective of keeping the daily Vesnik, printers and archives and documentation as public goods. After all, by dividing the "Walks" d.d. as a company to which all assets with a business facility and land, printer and archive were transferred, or documentation without... a with the release of a newly formed company called "Vjesnika Publishing" d.d., i.e. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The fate of these newspapers through which generations of Croatian journalists and once high reach Croatian journalism were directly threatened by this property. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also with the absence of the application of general and special provisions protecting the independence of the media, the absence of regulatory bodies that would protect the independence of the media and, contrary only to the existence of the editor-in-chiefs-in-chief with non-transparency... The base is enabled... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The journal "Vjesnik" to the level of tight sided promiscation which further alienated this list from readers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Starting with the need to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia in the field of public information through the adopted principles of the promotion of pluralism of the media, as well as the need to preserve the journal "Vjesnik" as a public note and public goods is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to draw the following conclusions. Under one, it is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to report to the Croatian Parliament within 60 days on the state, perspective and future fate of "Vjesnika" d.d. and "The Messenger of the Publishing" d.o.o. Secondly, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is tasked with harmonising within 60 days the management of the companies "Vjesnik" d.d. and "Vjesnik Publishing" d.o.o. with the Media Act and other regulations that protect the independence, diversity and pluralism of the media and to report it to the Parliament. So much for the incentive that is in the interpretation itself, and it is related to the problems as described here and resulting in our desire for the government to be seriously prepared to manifest itself within 60 days. Not only may it be manifested, but if it has not done so so far established the lady's perspective of "The Vesniks" and to report this "Sabor" of this further fate as a national good, and therefore contrary to these expectations, the government actually rejects such an initiative, rejects impelation, and on two occasions. For the first time only in a sentence and a half or two in which, instead of the Government's reply, a report drawn up for this purpose by "Vjesnik" d.d., a report on the state of the company "Vjesnika" d.d. and "The Newspaper" d.o.o. with a review of the editorial policy of the Vesnik list. So instead of the government's answer, it's the first time, but then I guess it's still a matter of conscience, etc. related that this is a public good and something more serious, the government has decided on a second time to supplement that argument, but how does it complement it? By actually from this same report that's a report of a house we didn't ask about, because we asked the government's opinion, not the house, it's the house, and the government's responsibility. So he's compiling a few sentences, and he's briefly responding to how he's disproved all this stuff that we've stated in the interpretation. Well, let's see, I think it's being disproved, and if I think there are denials that the Parliament should not adopt these conclusions, nor should the Government think that it should answer anything further about it. First, it's said that a reorganization has been done, and that determines what it's like to tell a daughter right, which means someone's a mother. We have to ask the question of how did this come about who was in total the Vesnik daughter, and who is in total the Vesnik mother? Then it's said that it's just an impelation imputing it. How could something that happened and what is being confirmed here be imputed, so a reorganization has been carried out? Obviously nothing is imputable, but it is used to impute to an interpreter who is serious and concerning a public good. I think so much of a vocabulary that I don't think is appropriate when the government responds to the MPs for their interpretations. But that's not even close. There are things that worry in maybe a much more serious way. First, it's said that when a company's daughter is shared that she doesn't need a partial balance. To the very question that no one answers who is the mother here, and who is the daughter, the need for a partial balance arises from this issue because the government gentlemen and distinguished fellow MPs and MPs, when the Vjesnik was formed, then the house was not first built, the land was not first purchased, the printer was first created, and then the printer was created, then the house was built, etc., etc. to qualify as a newspaper. Mr. Prime Minister in several interviews, among other things, on television once, and several times that is repeated by responsible people in "The Vesnik", says a strategic partner for "The Vesnik" is wanted. I have to ask who the strategic partner of the Vesnik is if his strategic partner, and that's the press, the house, the land and his property, is out of it, from that daughter to find some other strategic partner? What other strategic partner is that if it's not already this strategic partner that Vesnik has, and which one is now being abolished? So that's it. It's said you don't need a partial balance. I think that's a very inappropriate answer, to say very mildly about whether or not a partial balance is needed. But there's something else. That the government is imputing again and giving nothing back, and that the impelation is imputing and giving back to nothing supported examples of such events in the "Vjesnik" because, among other things, it is mentioned that "Vjesnik", this story is "Vjesnik", i.e. Newspaper said they were deprived of their property. And now please listen nicely to this sentence as the Government responds. So she says it's not true, that it's an outsourced editorial, or "The Vesnik" as a publishing house that it's.../The speaker doesn't understand."...so that's not true, and the answer is this: "Government of the Vesnika" d.d. It intended to enter into the core capital of the company and part of the real estate at the time of the creation of the new society, but the realisation of these intentions prevented legal and financial obstacles at that time." etc. It doesn't say at all whether the obstacles or not have been prevented, but I ask you whether it's a false and unconfirmed claim that "The Vesnik" is like "the newspaper" that they've lost their assets if in this sentence the explicit is said that the government intended it, but it didn't realize it. How it's true and I think what kind of sylogism is where it's possible that the government in this way corresponds to the interpretation of, of course, taking over from the text of the report itself of the Vesniks of this formulation that are given like this and so on. In fact, it's said that perhaps, perhaps, the reports will be made. And donate real estate. So first it's said that it's not true that they have nothing, and now it's said that they'll be donated to real estate, but then it'll cost something and so on and so on. You know, I think it's real, I'm trying to use the easiest terms, very inappropriate that the government in this way actually underestimates the MPs and underestimates the importance of this issue because the Vesnik is our common good even though at this point, and we're also going to get to it it's much more good for the government and the parties themselves in power than it is for the public good, and that's another question. Thus, the government did not question independence, diversity or pluralism of the media and interpretation is not in a close relationship with content. Therefore, this is also rejected, and among other things, when it comes to the strong character of the list, then it is noted, that one statistics is given as many as is present from the official and there it is seen that actually there are SDP officials in the last few times, within some time period were 12 times then HSS 10 times, HDZ only 6 times, HNS 4, LS 4 and so on. We have indeed come to the conclusion that actually Vesnik is an opposition paper because you see from HDZ officials only six and from SDP 12. Prime Minister, everyone else isn't here at all. But it doesn't matter at all. It doesn't matter how many there are going to be, or how many of us think it's important how many people they're going to be and how many numbers they're going to be. Does it matter who's in what way? From one plentiful file because I would not want to bother the Assembly with a plentiful documentation, if necessary, I will find other examples to allow in just a few places, in two places to show about how the opposition is interpreted and how is the party in power interpreted? So this is how one of the prominent commentators, I will not quote it by its name, says: "All those who led Croatia until 2003 were busy with their own chairs and playing size, and it was little or nothing." This is therefore an assessment of what was in Vjesnik which was otherwise governmental as a leaf and close to the government. It's an evaluation of what was before. Racan, a former prime minister who was not able to cope with the European political scene and is not today able to play the role of the chairman of the National Committee for the Monitoring of EU Negotiations. A major contribution to the government's policy in order to make it possible for me to express the common interest of both the National Committee and all other accessions to the European Union. Racan's time has passed. Sanader's just coming. Racan is a synonym for the defeated, Sanader is a lucky winner for Croatia and generations that Sanader will introduce to Europe. Great. All of them, so they're all true. I see that such truths are shared by the HDZ bench and I'm not surprised because that's really your opinion. Yeah. That's your opinion. But it's interesting that it's the opinion of a commentator who claims to be so close to the government on one hand is independent, but he's normally close to the government and it's not bad that he's close to the government. Make sure he's close to the government. Now let's hear something else. I'm reminding you to say the ratios as to what they're written about. This is very convenient, which is why I didn't know whether to once again grieve a little more over the fate of the Vesnik or laugh, I mean the way it's written and how in my opinion it deeply insults the Prime Minister. Sanader's ready for a party rally. Burno is welcomed by his HDZ fans who celebrate the 16-year-old party in Rijeka. All good speakers, especially Kalmet and Bebić, but the culmination is Sanader's speech. The prime minister didn't normally write it in advance, he speaks from his head. It shows how good a politician he is. How attractive he speaks at party gatherings. That's how it addresses citizens directly, but it also sovereignly comes to the world's politicians. Croatia wanted me to admit it or not for the first time has a European-shaped politician. Sanader's been talking for over half an hour. He's gone from domestic politics to foreign affairs. Burno says hello. That's not all. There's something else, great. Sanader also sang. Sanader also sang. They sing Dalmatian songs and so on and so on. Listen, this is how it was written for the lives of some leaders, but after they died, or when it would have stopped being, not if it hadn't been written like that, it was written the other way around. I think that the Vesnik, in his need and the speculation of what is expected of him, has exaggerated even for those better, for those better in democratic understanding what should be done by the government and what should be the newspaper? So please, we have two problems here. One explicit violation of the Vesnik in the editorial policy of party politics. There's even something else here, and that's that a thousand and nine hundred, excuse me, 2092, third, I'm not going to mention the editor-in-chief during one of the editor-in-chiefs. After the fall of 100,000 to 10,000 Vesniks began to grow and again came to 30,000 circulations, then the editor-in-chief was replaced, sent to America because he had given one opinion among other things the opposite. Two opinions of which were officially one... He compared it in such a way that he told this other person, he ended up in America. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Even later, he came back. And after that, the Vesnik falls and falls. He's now looking at under 10,000 circulations. Of course, there's nothing you can do about writing like this. But I wonder what the government's intention is if it even has one? To truly become a Vjesnik such a mockery so that no one regrets its abolition, and then what is the company "Mati" goes the way we heard it. Not guessed, heard. The printer will sell to this or that. Real estate will be sold to this or that. And if it is not our newsletter, then let it go to waste, it is not important. No one will defend it anyway. Honorable MPs, colleagues and colleagues. The Vjesnik is publicly well. Vjesnik is still the only thing that this country of ours could preserve from the public media and that it's the press media. With public television Vjesnik is therefore the only media that is not in private hands and is not determined by the policy of certain concerts, interests, owners, advertisers and so on and so on. Today, when even commercial papers or corporations that are companies appear with free diaries they share, which unfortunately include political content which I don't think should otherwise be, should not be, the state has and has the right and must have the will to preserve what is therefore the only thing that is not subject to. But it can't be done if it's understood partyically, it can't be done if the strategic partner breaks down first so it's supposed to be searched and it reminds us that actually that system, those original privatisations that we had a certain time ago, so we interrupted it continues right here and that's exactly on a delicate issue like "The Vesnik." This must not be allowed and the public knows about it. Several gatherings are also organized on the Vesnik. Almost all the expensive and all the journalists were undermining its importance, underlining the importance of documentation that is uniquely good, which is protected, which, however, makes further development impossible, which I will talk about later, because it is one special chapter, and in the meantime there is no perspective. And in the meantime, instead of the government's response we're not looking for right now, we're asking for it to be made in 60 days, but to make it clear to the Parliament what it wants with the "Walker," which can be done, as it is seen. We're actually getting an answer that rejects such a need. We're getting an answer that doesn't need to be answered. And the answer gives us those who therefore report to the Government what they do there, and what they do looks like this. They form a daughter's company, mom becomes a daughter, daughter becomes a mom, baby doesn't get a daughter, doesn't get a family, doesn't get a dowry, and the dowry stays a mom. And whoever rules the government's mother, which is what he appoints, everyone who's important there, so the head of the administration, this one appoints the editors-in-chief, and the result is the one we have. 7,8 thousand circulations, the loss of one serious public good, the unrealisation of the need for one public media, the only press media. And I think that's something that every well-intentioned in this country needs to be concerned that every well-intentioned one should support, at least in that the government is more serious about what it intends with the "Walker," and these questions that we've asked here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66473	Thank you very much. Does the government's representative want to explain the government's report? Here you go, Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Damir Polancec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66474	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I must say that I listened very carefully to Mr Vujic's debate and his elaborated reasons that prompted him to suggest this kind of interpretation. I've heard a lot, but I'd stick to the fact, so let me take what's contained in the interpretation, accordingly we give the answers. We all have to agree with one and I absolutely agree with Mr Vujic at the beginning and at the beginning, which is "Vjesnik" is an institution. "Vjesnik" is an institution, "Vjesnik" is a brand, brand institution that we need to save, brand an institution that has its great historical, media and public value. It is for me a national treasure and therefore this government takes many activities, many steps to save that very value and that brand. And not only save but also capitalize. What are the activities I'm going to try to explain in short lines. But before I go to the explanations, I must say the same way that perhaps the two of us, Mr Vujic, will agree in another fact, which is that the negative business results of the Vjesnik stock company are due to the fact that the costs of the issue of the Vesnik list are significantly higher than the total revenues generated by the sale of lists and advertising space. And since 1990 until today. From 1990 until today, the trend of the drop in charges continues, the trend of the negative business list "Vjesnik", and it has always been subsidized in certain ways. By 1999, or I'll say it like this, until '90. the year was subsidized by those business entities, i.e. parts of SOUR that could subsidize it. And since the conversion of papers continues with negative business, but the state does not subsidise its negative business in an adequate manner. The 1999 decision to merge lists and printers that we could talk a lot about, of course, I have my own opinion, in some ways the obligation of the Croatian press to subsidise the negative business of the list "Vjesnika". We can't go on like this anymore, and that's why we joined the reorganisation. Reorganisation in a way that is not separated, but founded by the daughter of "Vjesnik Naklada" d.o.o. with a share capital of EUR 200 thousand based on the decision of the Board "Vjesnika" d.d., supported by the decision of the Supervisory Board "Vjesnika" d.d., and all by the Law on Commercial Society. So that's not where I'm going to get involved in the family relationship debates, but I'm going to apply to the Company Act. So there was a new company with a core capital of £200,000 and there was an intensity that the company was being recapitalised with 17 million kuna worth of real estate. However, there is also the fact that there is no clear ownership, that there is no clear demarcation, that there is actually an elaborate on the evaluation conducted by the Municipal Court in Zagreb and at the grantovnica. And that's why there's no such thing as capitalization. If there was also a recapitalisation of these properties under the Law on Commercial Companies at the value of these properties, the basic capital of the company should also be invested in the underlying capital of the company. Cash that "Vjesnik" d.d. Not at the moment. "Vjesnik" d.d. should therefore enter these properties into the daughter’s underlying capital and import 17 million kuna. If something else was to be done, these properties could be donated, and then a real estate tax would be paid. In any case, I personally hold that the establishment of the "Versnike Publishing" d.o.o. Good move, and later I'll try and defend him, not try, but I'm sure I'll defend him. Because I'm simply going to say it one more time, and today as a leaf, "The Vesnik" is making a loss, and it can't go on with that kind of practice. What exactly is the goal and what is our intention, what is our desire? Our desire is that according to one tried system, for example. I will say, in particular, the principle and the model of "vinajtung" so combine the "Vjesnik" as a paper with the Public Procurement Advertiser and thus try to ensure the sustainability of both the list and the Public Procurement Advertisers. The administration of the "National Journals" in which we are today publishing a public procurement advertiser, with this and such principle is clearly manifested and agreed and at this point within the "National Journals", or rather within the Supervisory Board of People's Newspapers, whether to accept such a concept and continue in this direction. "Vinercaitung" lives, he does business positively. We have in one I will tell the example and the newspaper and the public procurement advertiser daily. Now what should be the fate or future of the Vesnika d.d.? Fate and future of the Vesnika d.d. as well as all other companies owned by the Croatian Privatisation Fund is privatisation. Based on the new Law on Privatisation in accordance with the harmonised attitudes with workers and trade unions, we will, when the new law is passed, join and privatise "Vjesnika" d.d. As far as your thesis is concerned, that is to say, that the editor-in-chief of the Vesnik is being voluntarily appointed. The current editor-in-chief was appointed in accordance with the law and then a valid statute of the stock company "Vjesnik" d.d. a in the newly adopted Regulation on the work of the "Vjesnik" load d.o.o. which entered into force on 15.4.2006 in the basic provisions of Article 1 is also an obligation to request the opinion of journalists before the appointment or resolution of the editor-in-chief. This provision of the Regulation will also be incorporated into the statute of the list "Vjesnik" which is in progress, at the moment it is defined. You also state that there is a non-transparentity of programming bases, and I quote your notion and that for this very reason we are witnessing the fact that the daily list has been broken down to the level of tight-sided promiscation. It is true that the daily paper monitors the activities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the President of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament, and that such media activity cannot be said to be a party promotion. The support the Vesnik daily gives government policy in Euro-Atlantic integration is not and cannot be a narrow party promotion. We believe that it is not and cannot be threatened by democracy or freedom and the diversity of the media based on what I have stated. You yourself quoted the number of conversations published with individual officials of individual parties. Today "Vesnik" follows the Government of the Republic of Croatia in exactly the same and the same way as it followed the Government of the Republic of Croatia from 2000 to 2003 and there is no change in programming and editorial policy. And when we talk about the published talks with party leaders and officials, then the exact fact that comes out clearly and can be read from this report by the "Vjesnik" administration, that 12 articles, interviews and interviews with SDP officials, then 10 with HSS leaders, 6 with HDZ leaders, 4 with HNS leaders, etc. etc. etc. And try to figure it out. I have to say that the "Vjesnik" report has not dropped in the last two years, the "Vjesnik" report has been dropping for many years, and in the last period the "Vjesnik" report has grown since the moment of receptualisation, redesign, format changes and new editorial policies, the list has grown 37.7%. It is also indisputable to visit more than 40,000 readers on the Internet every day on the "Vesnik" website. It is indisputable, therefore, that the reputation of the "Walk" is not great but is even greater than it was two years ago. This is also witnessed by the fact that, for example, by the organizer's decision, Vesnik was the representative of Croatian newspapers at the 2006 Winter Olympics in Turin. And it also testifies to the fact that Vesnik is one of the most quoted newspapers in Croatia. From all that I have stated, I think it can be clearly concluded that there are no claims from your interpretation and that, rightly, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is proposing to the Croatian Parliament to reject this interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66475	Here you go, Mrs. Gordana Sobol. Correction. Here you go, Mrs. Gordana Sobol. Correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66477	Well, I just want to react to the part where the Deputy Prime Minister claims that the newspaper is growing. I think it's incorrect, except for Mr. Vice-President of the Government, if you don't consider it, in an increased statement, to be among other things, and those two copies that I didn't ask for, as president of the Committee, I get back two months. On whose orders and why, I'd like you to explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66478	...is our government. It's Vesnik. ... Thank you very much. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Let's move on. On behalf of the HDZ Club,... If the committee's rapporteur wanted to, perhaps, have, one committee discussed, a Committee on Information. Does he want to or doesn't want to? I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Cube of HDZ, Mr. Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66479	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vujic, on behalf of the promoter and signator of this interpretation. "Vjesnik" is a really specific leaf, it is different from the others on our market and when we buy "Vjesnik" with "Vjesnik" we will not get those "Helf" candy, with "Vjesnik" we will not get those coupons that will lead us to hidden treasures, with "Vjesnik" we will not get coupons that will maybe bring us a car, a scooter or that will bring us tickets now for this football world championship in Germany that will take place. The Vesnik is very different, and the Vesnik doesn't strive for such effects, and they don't use that kind of means. It just doesn't work the way other newspapers work on this market. Croatia is a country with 4 and a half million people, a relatively small market with quite a large number of daily lists, weeklys and there is indeed a battle and match for each reader very sharp and very difficult. And that's exactly why Vesnik isn't profitable because he works in a different way. He is, as we have already heard from the Deputy Prime Minister and as we have seen in fact from this Report, he is a paper that primarily monitors the work of the Government, monitors the work of the representative body, the executive bodies of this Parliament, and therefore approaches it in a different way. And from the beginning, it can't actually be managed in one such competition and, of course, it can't cover the costs of its publication. That's how it was in the '90s when we looked back a little bit in history. He was part of a complex organisation of joint work, "Vjesnik", which produced 10 private, after privatised companies. One of them is the Croatian printer and the other is "Vjesnik" d.d. within which was this sheet. And now that we're looking at a little history from the '93 to '99, that Vjesnik is constantly recording negative results, always working with a minus, always working with a loss. And what's going on? The government of the Republic of Croatia also owns Croatian printing works, owns the "Vjesnika" and it decides to simply write off the debts, claims it has on the list. It even decides not to invoice the services it performs at all. Finally, in 99, a decision is made on the creation of a single company, meaning "Vjesnika" d.d. which also includes a printer, which includes a leaf itself. And now who brings what? In spite of such business moves, the printer makes a certain retained profit in the story. The Vesnik brings a minus, it brings a minus to the dowry, and that minus is actually solved through that retained profit so that we have one company that continues to operate, which is still working, and that is one further symbiosis of the printers and the list. We have 2000, we have the government of the coalition, in 2000, 2001, 2nd and 3rd and the "Vjesnik" and the work records the losses and so the company makes a loss every year. We end up in 2003 with a loss of 149 million, I think, kuna minus. Each year, it seems only to me in 2003 that the government subsidy, the Ministry of Economy, decided in June 2003 that it would pay off such a subsidy on behalf of the subsidy to cover the loss expected in 2003. 22 million is paid, so not entirely. We enter, therefore, in 2004 with a thick minus, with a minus that obliges us to either open up bankruptcy over the "Wiseman" or simply do something. How can you do that? It is only possible to make or pay so cover a minus or reduce the underlying capital. In practice, it almost comes to the same. The core capital has been reduced, what counterpart Vujic said, the daughter's company, a new society has been formed and would not agree with your claims that something has been taken away. This printer that stayed in a separate society if you look at all that history, all the debts that that list has written off, all the things that it hasn't invoiced, everything that it hasn't charged him, it's far more valuable to you than that property that tomorrow, as the Deputy Prime Minister said, will probably be entered into the list and returned to the list. All that's probably far more worth than that. It's the financial destiny of the Vesnik, but we have to ask ourselves, is that what we want? Do we want a list that will inform the citizens of where the president of this House is today? He's in Tallinn, we're reading in "The Vesnik" today that he's in Tallinn. In some other newspapers, we'll read that Minea got a job at some kind of tourist agency and opened another page in her life. But "Vjesnik" is a list of how it works, what it does before. As far as editorial policy is concerned, this is the second segment, this is the financial segment on which the proposings, the applicants of this interpretation, say it is in one difficult state of financial, both societies. I'd say now that we're both societies at the beginning. We have one company that has a printery, which has a perspective that all of these via leasing and credit restored its technology park and which is actually able to survive on the market. And on the other hand, we have a new company that has a list and where we're at the beginning and where we actually have different options. We can capitalize on the sides, another partner some, we can play "The People's News" so a model that the vice president said "Vinercacitunga" which is the same on about 10 thousand copies of the daily circulation. We can have different models, de facto we're at the beginning. The thing we got back to the beginning, we got rid of all those debts, and the thing can go on. As far as editorial policy is concerned, that's what I said, "The Vesnik" notes what the government is doing, what its leaders are doing, and you've read these quotes where it turns out to write praises about the Prime Minister, but what is important is that we look at these other facts. That all other parties got space in that list. They got space and you got, I believe, space, I didn't read. But what's important is that if you don't agree with the fact that you have the opportunity to express your different opinion. That's also important. And otherwise, what you've read has actually been written in some other sheets. It's not just the Vesnik. We have read of such attitudes on some other sheets. As the Croatian Democratic Community Club, we believe that the government has actually met its demand in response to this impelation. The requirement of interpretation, the first point of conclusion, is that one full report is given and we think that this full report is actually given through the very financial history and some kind of status history of this company. And two, that what you're asking for to be in charge of the government, to coordinate the business of the Vesnik with the Media Act, we believe that it is absolutely in accordance with the Media Act. And if you say otherwise, you're going to have to present it in a more specific way. So, the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the government's report on this impelation and we will not vote for impelation. We believe that this report is very high-quality and we believe that the Government has very good measures related to the "Vjesnik" supported and is in fact our wish and our requirement is that our citizens have the right to both true and objective information because if we look at our media today is a dominant fight for profit, a fight for profit, and in this difficult game for profit and for profit very often the truth, objectivity, expertise, professionalism remains in another plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66480	We have a correction, Mr. Representative Mato Church. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66481	Dear Representative Bosnjakovic says, quotes: "Vjesnik" is a newspaper that monitors the work of the government and this Parliament and is not profitable."so he doesn't share candy and he doesn't have that orientation. It is not true that the Vesnik is unprofitable because it monitors the work of the government and Parliament. That work is followed by other leaves. It is not prescribed anywhere that he must follow only the Government and Parliament and then as Government and Parliament must cover losses when, because he is unprofitable by following them, etc. This is about a much deeper problem that we're talking about. That's why I simply think we can't talk about some kind of belonging to that list of interpretations of government and parliamentary policy, but actually about how it should remain an institution that speaks of it, of course, but also of all other issues.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66482	It's more like a replica than a correction, but good. Let's move on. It is up to the SDP club and Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66483	Dear Vice President, Mr. Polancec, colleagues and colleagues. Unfortunately, I must first of all conclude that Mr. Polancec, Mr. Bošnjakovic, from this obvious point of view, can conclude that the well-intentioned nature of this impelation is not understood and that this impelation is not accepted in an equally well-intentioned manner as it is directed. What is the position of "Vjesnik" in written media space in Croatia? This written printed media space is mostly in private hands. "Vjesnik" is therefore the only daily newspaper owned by the Republic of Croatia. We think that "The Vesnik" must and must remain, we think that the Republic of Croatia must have one voice as in the world there are texts either favoring the opposition or favoring the government, "The Vesnik" should be such a message that it will be favored by the government, but that favor of the Government has some justification. Everywhere in the world, such lists serve to explain government policy, to test some government moves, or to interpret and explain what the government does not want to officially state. Then such leaves, for example. serve to test the government's decision to change the tobacco law, so whether to ban full smoking in all public spaces or not, then surveying is conducted in such newspapers, and this is what comments and analyses are written, and I don't know scientific papers like this and it's obtained, and it helps the government to be present in the space, in the public space, and to get some kind of echo, and not to be ashamed of the government in such a way as to yell at the assistant minister who only admits that he wrote the bill because they told him to write the bill. It's like the assistant minister of boredom sits down and writes a bill because there's nothing else to do. Well, it's normal for him to write a bill when the minister tells him to write a bill. I mean, it's clear to everyone who has any knowledge of the government's activities. That's what government-friendly texts are for. The interest of this country is that such a message exists in Croatia no matter what government it is today, this one, tomorrow another. So these private publishers don't boycott, for example. The government's work, the deal, can be arranged. The government stands up to them in their own interests and they boycott or deliberately tarnish the government's work. It can happen, it's premonitional, and that's why it's necessary. But newspapers can't be edited, such newspapers can't be edited in the government, and that's exactly what happened at the Vesnik. Be careful what kind of editorial policy "The Vesnik" doesn't have to prove it. This should not be proven as not to prove mathematical axiomas because they are obvious, they are obvious. What kind of editorial policy is "The Vesnik" should not prove to the quotes of the article, it is, enough to read "The Vesnik". They are, this editorial policy is becoming more and more ridiculous. Is she a danger to the opposition? No, not at all. So that someone doesn't think the SDP club is proposing this Interpol because it's potentially not happy with its presence at the Vesnik, which would like to be more present. Well, it doesn't matter how long you're there when nobody reads anyway. The influence of the Vesnik is nothing, and that's what the SDP club warns, that it's not a state interest, that we have one single newspaper in state property and that its influence is absolutely nothing. Why? Because it's no editorial policy. That's all. Some panegiries have been read in favour of Prime Minister Sanader. Well, there's no one here who's cool with writing about the prime minister. The Prime Minister may deserve it in one part, but there is a measure in everything. What was read at random, so we all laughed. Well, that's where the good taste measure went. But not that, it doesn't bother the SDP club, it doesn't bother you, it bothers your readers. It bothers the people you'd like to act propagandaally and then, along with those editors and with such journalists, you're actually being ridiculous. Look, come on, numbers, you want months? Two years ago. Open a random third page, you have a picture of Prime Minister Sanader. He did something or didn't do it that day. I don't care. That's, that's editorial policy. There must be a picture of Sanader there, so he had that day of activity or not. Watch out, watch out. It's a bear service to the Prime Minister. That way nobody gets promoted in a smart way. If I were the Prime Minister, I'd say they're not doing this to me. So they don't make fun of me, they don't make fun of me. That's what's going on. That they don't write panegirics like this because that's because the time of such panegirics has really passed. It's really gone. It's about the story. The load's going down, so now we're hearing lately it's not falling, it's growing a little bit, and so on. You see when fellow Vidovic came to the Ministry of Labour and Social Care, he found 8,000 ordered copies of Vesnik every day. It was a subscription from the Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare in 1999. That's what he found. And now we're talking about some kind of bullshit. It's all artificial. When was the last time you saw a citizen, let's be honest, when you saw him at the Vjesnik, buying a Vjesnik in the kiosk? Look at me, it doesn't matter whether you're going to be convinced that citizens can't wait for the kiosks to open up a colleague of Bagariæ so they can pick up that Vjesnik before they reach their copy before he's deposed. If you believe that, and Mr. Bagaro, I'm the only one who can feel sorry for you. But that, and that the police on horseback have to arrange for these citizens to be put in order, not to fight over their specimen Vesnik. What do the citizens think about the Vesnik telling you how many of these Vesniks are buying? Are they willing to single out their money to read what it says there? The commission is growing because state, state-owned companies, state-owned companies have a subscription to Vjesnik. Like, as in 1999, there were 8 thousand copies in one ministry. Almost half a load. I don't know what the story is, but what's the impact of it, especially what's the point of it. Look, it's complete, but pointless. Eight thousand, yes. [[Intruder: 8 grand.]] In the Ministry of Labour, in the Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare. We therefore consider it necessary to remain state-owned, but it must be guaranteed financial independence. Secondly, he must be assured of editorial independence. He doesn't need to be a government bulletin, one or one that comes behind her. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. Neither the newsletter, the majority parties or the newsletter of any party. How? Well, look, there's a couple of models. For example, we have an example of HRT, which has been turned into a public record. We've got one, we've got some kind of program council. Even here, it would be possible to introduce an editorial council on the parity principle of the parliamentary majority, the parliamentary minority. Find another model, anyway. But don't let the government appoint the editor-in-chief. Because that editor-in-chief is gonna keep his job. So clearly he's going to write these texts about the prime minister. Because if he doesn't write them, he won't be the editor-in-chief. Someone else will come. Well, that's one time. Well, it's not about the brains or the unwiseness of this or that editor. It's about math, about his interests. Find a model, we didn't offer a model. We call on the government to find a model within 60 days to ensure that this house, the brand that exists, is most valuable there brand, the most valuable name of that house Vesnik and these newspapers. Because it's been there for 50 years or I don't know how many. Let's put our trust in that paper. That citizens really want to read there what it says and that more, they believe more than what it says in some of this or that commercial newspaper. What influence different lobbies can have, from political to economic and so on. This interpretation is a kind of test for the government, for Prime Minister Sanader and for the parliamentary majority. We're not looking for anyone's shift, we're not looking for some kind of political activity that would be directed against the government. This interpretation is an invitation to a joint action in the interests of this country. Do you want to or not the Vesnik as a public message that will be appreciated, respected, and read? Or do you want to keep an existing situation? Would you like to read panegyrians about yourself? Well, then, you'll refuse the interpretation. Well, after the next elections in Vjesnik, you'll read panegirics about someone else. If that's what you want. Mr. Polancec admits the problem and says what kind of solution the government is offering. What does the government offer? Publisher puts it in Vjesnik. So listen to God’s people, and is this the work of the Prophet? That people there are reading the ad page. To be a little advertiser. Well, Vesnik's worth too much. So that brand is too valuable to ruin it by turning it into a public procurement advertiser. Well, that's a pretty bad solution. The solution we invite you to find for yourself if you need help, if you do not need help, do not call for help. But you are guided by the idea that this action of yours will not end with a public procurement advertiser in Vjesnik and will continue with this kind of editorial policy because you will have no influence over it. You won't save money through that. The Vjesnik will only continue to fail, and you will leave the country unnecessarily impoverished for a respectable message with which to be proud, whose texts should be conveyed by other leaves in the world. Which would be, by any means, a reasonable aid to any government in interpreting its policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66484	Thank you. I am now hesitant to draw attention to you that it is not collegiate or particularly delicious to say sorry to my colleague Bagaric. You feel sorry for your colleague, Bagaric, I don't know why you feel sorry for him, but it's underestimation now because you feel sorry for him. I don't feel sorry for anyone, but at least Bagaric, some others may be sorry, but Bagaric doesn't. Ivan Bagarić has a correction to the incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66485	Mr. President, allow me and my colleague to correct you when you say that the influence of the Vesnik is nothing. That's completely incorrect. If that were the case, that "Vesnik" influence would have no effect then you would not have tried to put exactly "Vjesnik" under your own supervision and its editorial policies called and used the Institute of Interruption, as you called HTV surveillance by trying to produce public television, or just now when you tried to put the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts under your own supervision. I agree that people don't stand in line for "The Vesnik." But they stood in line for some other things precisely for the governments of the unreformed SDP and that for bread, milk and gasoline. Thank God people aren't standing up for anything today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66486	It's not any of the SDP really didn't mention the Academy and Pinocchio's, he's got a chance of still showing up. But let's go up ahead and see if it's possible. And correcting an incorrect quote, Mr. Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66487	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm correcting a false quote that says, "The influence of the Vesnik" is nothing, and his story is weak.". It has 10,000 copies a day and 40,000 visits to the website, which is a total of 50, respectable 50 thousand, given the category of list I will discuss in an individual debate. If the influence of the Vesnik were not significant, then the SDP would not try to interfere classically with the editorial policy of a state diary. This is a political mix-up in editorial policy and it's for every conviction. The wrong name is that they found 8,000 copies in the Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare. The government then bought out 9,000 each day through the ministry and shared all state, county and municipal institutions instead of the current subsidy. So she helped in a useful way. Finally, it is incorrect to regret a colleague, Ivan Bagaric. You should mourn him to praise fight and politics. But when he praises "Walk," I don't feel sorry for him.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66488	Thank you very much. And another correction to the incorrect quote, Mr. Marian Bekavac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66489	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would correct the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague who claimed that HRT had been turned into a public ballot. Which is not true, dear colleague, because HRT has been transformed into a SDP bulletin, and at the last session of the last session of the Parliament, with the final point, which you have clearly shown how much you care about freedom of the media in Croatia, and today this interpretation of "The Vesnik" turns out to be funny.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66490	We're moving on to an individual debate. She is the first female representative of Milanka Opačić. She's gone. Then he's Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66491	I give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66492	He's giving up. Thank you. Then she is Mrs. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. She's gone. Then it's Mrs. Vesna Scare Ozbolt. She's gone. Then Mr. Pero Kovacevic is who he doesn't have. Then it's Mr. Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66493	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Vice President of the Government. We're reading two directions to the attack on the newspaper "Vjesnik" in the SDP's interpretation. One is that this government is financially destroying it and organisationally. And the second is that it abuses the list to promote one party, the Croatian Democratic Community, and several times Prime Minister Sanader has been mentioned. Well, I'd rather buy a picture where Prime Minister Sanader is than where the former prime minister is. And if we want a bigger circulation, we need to insert better pictures. Well, I don't see any reason to argue at that level. I think we should discuss at a very serious level than the pictures. This is part of the free appearance of one elected representative of the Croatian Parliament. As far as I'm concerned, I've been commenting on your allegations about the pictures, no. As for the smaller number of copies, which are of course, as Mr Polancec, Vice President Polancec said, for reasons and financial difficulties. So "Vjesnik" could easily side by side with some other leaves and sell itself, as we heard in the morning, if instead of serious articles, you'd become a tabloid, if you were to show images of nakeded beauties, if instead of serious text, you'd have this big title, if instead of serious subjects, you'd have all kinds of excesses that you'd have to deny later. The "Vjesnik" is not and it is good that it is not such a list, and it is good to read it only 1% of the population. But which ones? It's those who decide, those who have to be objectively informed, those who can't be interested in sensations. And that's why the Vesnik institution was, and it's going to stay. But first, let me say some, uh, one review of the financial destruction of the Vesnik of this current government. Namely, both past government and current government had to and must subsidize the Vesnik. How did the government go about it, and what does this one do? I'm reading from the data, in 2000, the paper was in the loss of 40 million kuna that year, it got nothing. In 2001, again an annual debt of 40 million kuna, got nothing. In 2002, 44 million new losses, meaning a total of 124 million kuna in three years, and he didn't get anything. In 2003, he received only 22.6 million kuna, which is half... The SDP shuts down, the red paint bothers him. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] At the end of 2003, when those who are criticising him were supposed to subsidise the debt amounted to $129.1 million. What does the current government do? In 2004, the loss was 20.8 million, 2005. 26.7 million, and the subsidies were 22.9 million in 2004, 30 million kuna in the past 2005 and 23 million kunas overrun by printing goods. So this government subsidises "The Vesnik" so that it is now operating without loss, thus showing the government's attitude towards the list and showing the untrueness in the interpretation that this government is bringing the paper into a deliberate loss. As for the separation of the daughter's company and the future, you saw from the exposure of Vice President Polancec that plans exist and that's why I wouldn't talk about it. But when we look at the financial business of the Vesnik, then we can see that over the past year his business has been improved, that the number of daily charges, so the sales of copies not from the printed ones, has increased by 25%. That the number, i.e. the amount of money earned from advertising has increased in the last year according to the previous 25%, so it can't be talked about bad management. That the salaries of employees are on a steady slow rise, therefore this also indicates the stability of the business, of course, with the subsidies I was talking about and which will be the future of a serious list such as "Vjesnik". It should also be said that the separation from the press is a perfectly logical move, because the printing company is a company that is on the market and it needs to be privatised today-to-morning, it cannot draw a burden, but that is why the government has substituted that difference of money in subsidies. As for the editorial policy which some would easily and gladly take, it should be pointed out that the "Vjesnik" is indeed intended for a politically serious reader's audience and that indeed more than other papers are more serious about the work of the government, the parliament and the president of the state and, therefore, it is certain that the members of the government are more and more often present in the media than those who are not, but are not party officials. I'm talking about my own example. Ever since I left the government, I haven't had a chance at the Vesnik, which is fine, because I'm one of the agents. But while I was a member of the government, I had twice the opportunity to publish an interview. But also at the time of the last government, "The Vesnik" published interviews by ministers, MPs then and of course the same president of the country, which I think is fine because the government, not only the Government, but also the legislative authority must have a single vote that brings more seriously to readers what is happening from those exotic articles that we often see in the private but unfortunately also in the public electronic media. I only remind the members of the Media Committee who attended the four-hour meeting yesterday, which is "Dnevnik" about it and what he said. It's not a cartoon, it's a tragedy to tell the truth and tell the news. Only then would you tell three shorts of experience in the end. My 1971 experience when I served the infamous JNA of course in Serbia, in Zagreb I subscribed to "Vjesnik". Why? Because I wanted to know in Serbia what Savka, Mike and the others are saying here. From seven copies a day to what I had subscribed to, one to two came to me, the rest ended up somewhere in the trash because they were clearly too objectively depicting even at what was happening here. The second event, the second one, is what she did here today before us, the chairman of the Media Committee, Mrs. Zeljka Antunovic. It is not available, but it was necessary to inform the Vice-President of the Committee to deliver its opinion on this interpretation. Why didn't she do it? Because the parent board refused this interpretation, similar events have happened before. And the third line on "The Vesnik" is the interpretation itself, an attempt to meddle in the editorial policy of a list that is a government no matter who is a government, who is parliamentary, no matter who is in Parliament but who needs to maintain his quality, but of course not jeopardising such interpretations that should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66494	We have two replicas. First Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66495	Well, in my replica, I must take the protection of Prime Minister Sanader. So I'm sorry that Mr. Hebrang is looking at Prime Minister Sanader through his modeling role, so he claims that the circulation of the Vesnik is increasing because he publishes... A better-looking prime minister. [[You don't understand.]] Vesnik himself claims that from September to October 2005, he has not published a single conversation with the prime minister. That's what we're talking about, we'd be interested in, the pictures are, every day he publishes. We would be interested to hear what the Prime Minister is saying wisely about the future of this country, such a "Vjesnik" we advocate, not the one who exists, and which apparently is being defended by fellow Hebrang, who will join the prime minister as a model. That's why I said that such an approach humiliates the prime minister, that it actually offends him and that it brings him down to a role far lower than what he should have in society, that he's actually making fun of him. So I'm sorry that fellow Hebrang has taken such a stand with the Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66496	Mr. Hebrang's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66497	Thank you very much. I'm not surprised that Mr. Stazic, the esteemed representative doesn't understand the messages at all, because he sends incomprehensible messages. I just answered that it's really nice to see a really special person in the paper and that I don't see any reason why she doesn't get published. And the fact that you didn't have one in your term, it's really not our fault. That was the meaning of my answer and in some ways a replica of your statement. But let me turn this thing around now on a more serious matter. If Vesnik only sold for paintings, then he wouldn't put ours or your prime minister there, he'd put a lot more attractive pictures there, and he'd really grab himself in the morning. "Vjesnik" is too serious a list to handle with pictures and photographs. Today you also have a prime minister in "Vjesnik" but with a very serious entrepreneurial action for which he is honored and it is good that it is also an image so that the image also reminds who is the author of such action. In that sense, I also support the publication of pictures. And when there's a government of the unsuspecting prime minister, then there's no room for him in the pictures or in the news of his work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66498	Replica, also Mr. Mato Church. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66499	Honorable representative Hebrang says, it's good for the Vesnik to read 1% but those who decide, etc. It is not good for fellow Hebrang, and the government itself is trying to fill him with an ad, increase the load. The government wants to increase that commission in a reasonable manner. It is therefore not good to read it 1% regardless of whether it is those who decide etc. I wouldn't get into that. This is where we translated the debate into a political debate again, and there is really no need for that. Especially because it simply takes "Vjesnik" both as a brand and as an institution. He needs both government and this and the past and the future, etc., but he's obviously failing. And it's accelerated, and the government has no sustainable solution to prevent it. It is doubtful, even very doubtful, whether it can be solved only by this system of advertisers, etc., and by these certain procedures from which it is not clear where they lead in the privatisation and other senses. So, we're talking here about how to read more than 1%, because that's what the government wants. But to be a newspaper that's really happy to be read because it's believed, no matter who's in power. Unlike those other newspapers affected by both the capital and interests of individual structures and entrepreneurs, etc., etc. So, and here is actually proposed a reasonable conclusion and a deadline in which you should actually see what you should do to make it better with the Vesnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66500	Thank you. Mr. Hebrang's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66501	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative didn't understand my message. I was going to say that those 1% who read these are "desidion designers". And every country has a serious list like that and what you read "decision designer" that's one piece of information, what reads a wide reading circle is another information. I agree that we should have each other's newspapers. If that's what "Walk" is, and it is, then it needs to be subsidized in any way. In that sense, I support the Vesnik. If he has to become a list for a wide reader audience, then we'll make him unfortunately the tabloids of the type we have enough. And that the government is working very hard to increase the number of readers of the daily Vjesnik daily, we can see it by data. 2002, 2001. Seven thousand 307 and 800, yet in 2005, nine thousand 660. So, there's a slight increase, and it certainly doesn't matter how many people the government reads, but I think we should all be more concerned with the quality than the circulation and that "Vjesnik" is such a list that needs to be subsidized and that it keeps quality. That was my message.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66502	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Joseph Leko's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66503	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, I can only say from the government's reply and from today's debate that there is a huge discrepancy between what the government and the HDZ Club are up to, from the reviews in which the newspaper "Vjesnik" is in. In what way is this discrimination disproportionately disproportionate? The Deputy Prime Minister claims that the Vesnik newspaper is inconclusive and should be touched. That he can't survive alone. Even suggests that the newspaper "Vjesnik", the Croatian tradition of newspapers, remembers everyone from when we were dating and what we were all, to put it this way, reading political messages in "Vjesnik" from... It depends on who's with what and what he's reading. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, the government suggests that you list such qualities and such traditions turn into an advert because the government claims to be inert. Right behind that, everyone here agrees that it's an institution that we have to take care of because it's a national news institution. And then we start a political bickering that doesn't really lead to a solution. This is typical, i.e. the continuation of typical examples of Croatian privatisation. The HDZ way or not. Most of the companies, the companies that we privatized, we first brought her down to unemployment, to the inability to reproduce herself and her product, and then we sold it, for little money. Is that fate's list of Vesniks? Is that what we want? I won't. I won't and I won't. So I'm surprised by his esteemed colleague Hebrang when he says he's happy to buy a picture of the Prime Minister. Yes, colleague Hebrang, buy a picture of the prime minister, but call the "Vjesnik" a HDZ bulletin and don't co-finance it with taxpayers' money. At that request, I guess I'm right. I guess I'm right. If it's not a logical and normal request from an attorney, then I don't see what our role is in here. Unless we represent general interests. And one more thing, it's just there. Who's responsible for the position of the Vesnik? So the owner and the one who manages, who has ownership rights. In this case, it's the government. In this case, it's the government. She's setting up editors and directors. In this way, he also indirectly leads an editorial policy. Direct or indirect. Direct or indirect. Because to whom is the Director of the Vesnik responsible and to whom is the editor-in-chief of the Vesnik? Indirectly known, Vladi. It's not a matter of political bidding, even if the Vesnik was sold in state institutions, parliament or elsewhere. It's not a matter of political competition, it's a reader thing because it's written for readers. And it can be investigated explicitly. I'm not a public opinion expert, but I know so much that it can be investigated. And even what readers expect from the Vesnik can be explored. And then we come to a proposal legitimate, well-intentioned, any club, we come with an evaluation to the Parliament that we are going to turn the national institution into an advert. It's more than a formalist approach to the Vesnik problem. It can't be ignored that Vesnik is a tradition, that Vesnik has an archive that is valuable, valuable outside the house "Vjesnik", is worth national. That "The Vesnik" has expectations of its reader audience either today or before. All of this can be ignored by the government when it proposes to the Croatian Parliament that we turn it into an advert. I think that it should be well-intentioned and ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia to investigate all of this within one appropriate time, it is not even big money researching, testing and to find the moderation of either this pandemic to Croatian broadcasting or one who has in the world to provide the "Vjesnik" with a future at the level that other leaves in other countries that are prone to the Government. You can't ask for anything more well-intentioned. My colleague Stazic said very nicely what the papers that are owned by the government are doing and it is justified. Why would we go with our heads into strawberries when we can question our opinion in advance, in the woods or anywhere else, as my colleague Loncar would say. It doesn't matter, anyway. You know what I was gonna say, it doesn't matter. So, if there is, and there is an opportunity to examine what place is and what is the possibility of the paper to survive why not the Government, here in our comprehensive approval within 3 months, came before the Croatian Assembly of Citizens and we said that "The Vesnik" should remain in that and that space, that it can be called upon by any citizen, that it is the position of the Government, that it is justified or that citizens encourage it, but that it is true, that it is true and objective that the request is simply normal and justified. That's why I really can't accept that, again, I have to get back to the statistics as it's been in "The Vesnik." Simply "Vjesnik" is a national paper and cannot have a biased attitude towards a political option whether it is in power or not. It may be the official views of the government, but not the political option. That's why I expect the government to ask for the deadline itself to propose a solution to the Vesnik list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66504	Thank you. Mr. Hebrang, correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66505	Thank you very much. It's an incorrect allegation that I said I was happy to buy a picture of the Prime Minister. I don't have to shop, I have a lot of albums with him because we've been friends for many years, but when the picture of the prime minister in the paper means that this man is doing something, so I said that I like to see the image of the entrepreneurial prime minister and that I understand why the previous prime minister didn't have a place with his picture there. Second, it's incorrect that this Interpol is a well-intentioned remark. This Interpletion is unargumented and is a typical example of attempts to interfere with the state-owned editorial policy of the list.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66506	Replica, Mr. Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66507	You, colleague Leco, are saying that the Vesnik should exist because of its readers, but by doing so, a respected colleague comes into conflict with... The opinion which is clearly dominant here in this House, which is that the "Vjesnik" must exist because of 1% of readers and the decision of the designer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who are they, then, about whom does "the Vesnik" say? About them and them 1% read the same thing. They want a paper to write about how beautiful they are, how smart they are. They don't care if nobody else reads it. As you've heard, it's enough for them to be 1% of them because they're gone. Then these articles show their wives, their relatives, their neighbors, show. Well, you see, in the paper, it said that I was beautiful and smart and that I sang wonderfully and that everyone applauded me and that it was a common delight when I showed up somewhere. They want such articles about themselves. Since you do not realize that with your idea that a newspaper should exist because of your readers here, you are facing a complete misunderstanding of the parliamentary majority because this request for them, your request for a newspaper to exist because of readers is totally unacceptable and illogical.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66508	Answer, Mr. Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66509	Dear Mr. Vice President and dear colleague Stazic. My political optics are not based on 1% of readers. My political optics consist of a large number of Vesnik readers from the draft itself and in '68, '71, '74, '80, '90. A year and today. My political optics believe that this has a value of traditional, national, and about 1% of which some here say they should call it another name and set up a "Vjesnik" for themselves, and call it "Vjesnik" for its name and "Vjesnik" for its name as a national newspaper in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66510	Replica, Mr. Representative Mato Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66511	Both colleagues, Leco and others, spoke of making the Vesnik a publicist. You should say it's not about that, because the government doesn't mean it. She thinks to add that information, i.e. public procurement ads, and that makes a living sense and there have been such calculations before, etc., but I want to tell my colleague, Leko, that no matter what it is, it will not help the "Vjesnik". This isn't German or any other market, and it's no way out for the Vesnik. "The Vesnik" has to be reformed in that sense to become a newspaper people believe in and want to read it, and then when it gets more into it and sometimes this contribution I have nothing against it, it's not a publicist type, then it's okay and I think it's a well-intentioned approach that I'm talking about and it's not funny to them either, Mr. Vice President, it's not funny to us at all. It's that "The Vesnik" is in difficulty that the government has no way out and that it's simply a matter of responsibility and sensitivity to do something.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66512	No, you got it all wrong. Oh, I didn't say it was funny what you're saying, but what you're talking about, it's a front-page address, whether it's that too. You didn't ask for an answer, so now you'd... The Prime Minister and then the Proposer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66513	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable MPs and the MPs. I really want to believe that all of this afternoon's debate was about finding all the common solutions to how to preserve what's most valuable in the Vesnik list, and that's his brand, that's the fact that Vesnik is an institution and that's the fact that we can't lose that institution. I really want to believe that the proponents of this interpretation have some ideas about how to do it, and according to what you said at the beginning that we must be open to your ideas, here I want to tell you that I am very open as the chairman of the Management Board of the Privatisation Fund, which is also the largest owner of the Vesnik, a shareholder society. I want to tell you that my office and I personally are to stand you open and available for all your ideas on how to do this? What we really need to do is to make this newspaper more attractive on the one hand, we have to raise the story, and on the other hand, as much as possible to reduce the losses that the Vjesnik produces year after year. I would like to believe that you have sound and good ideas but don't mind me and I wouldn't want to be bad, but in the period from 2000 to 2003 Vjesnik produced losses as a stock company in the following order: 2000. 40 million kuna, 2001. 39,4, 2002. 44.8 million and 2003. 33.6 million kuna. Almost all of this loss has been resolved in a way that reduced core capital and in mid-2003 the only decision that went in order for something to be substantially or at least partially fixed and changed is the government's decision to grant a negative business subsidy in 2003. In December, 11 December 2003, the first subsidy was granted and not in the total amount as it should have been done but with less than half the total amount and one fact was missing. In the government's conclusion, therefore, from December 2003, there was no conclusion that the Government itself, which sought and insisted on it on how to further finance and extract the list from the crisis. The list is growing between 2004 and 2005. Losses still exist. The losses are halved. All we're trying to do today is cancel out these halved losses. The model we have suggested may not be ideal, the model may not be the best in the world, but the model that goes towards increasing the list of Vesniks and that the losses produced by the paper are reduced to a tolerable level or analizing them. The list is an institution, but the list, its editorship, people who work and live on that list and writing in that list must also change. They must accept that, the fact that there are new rules on the market today. The fact that many other leaves have appeared and the fact that they themselves must change. 200 people are working on the Vesnik list. The journalist's norm is 0.54 articles per day, while in other daily papers, the norm is 1.2 articles per day. And that also speaks of what direction of restructuring should we go? So restructuring aimed at increasing the load. Directed not by artificially increasing the load but by increasing the load that will be the product of a clear editorial policy, and the newspaper Vesnik must remain a national paper that will monitor the action and work of this but also of any government that will come in the periods ahead of us. But the newspaper Vesnik must no longer produce losses. And we have to simply eliminate its dependence on the state budget, on subsidies from the State budget. We think the model we suggested is good. We believe that this model will lead to achieving the goals that I was talking about. So I thank you for your concern and concern because I believe that concern and concern for the national value and brand of the Vesnik is the only real motive for your interpretation. I'm staying open if you have better suggestions than the one I made. I'd be very happy to talk to you. And until then, while there are no better proposals, I really think that the interpretation and the particular conclusions that you suggest in the interpretation have been missed, so I ask the Croatian Parliament to reject the interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66514	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Representative Antun Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66515	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I also thank Mr. Vice President Polancec, Deputy Prime Minister. But I would point to one illogicality right away. I especially thank you for inviting us to cooperate in some way if we have ideas that may be useful for us. But why, when you're suggesting it, are you refusing to interpret it that is actually asking for it? And the interpretation requires that, in a certain way, you are not reading the principles themselves because you have mentioned some principles here, but rather concrete ideas and concrete practice, in what way do you go in what you call privatisation, but don't say what it is? What do you call tying up the Vjesnik type... Which is quite questionable here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'd also argue with a whole series of other things. But allow for all of this here is not answered for one more question that stands in the interpretation. I, I said it, I announced it. I said I'd mention it later. I thought you might be touching it, so if you're willing, you can go on. And that's the mention of Vesnik's paper. It's one thing that's almost as important as the Vesnik himself when I'm talking about newspapers, and there's not a word about it. It is not mentioned here at all as one of the elements that needs to be solved and what could be an exceptional factor in the development of the Vesnik if we certainly do not look at it in the way it was heard here in terms of an exclusive list that I think will be based on 1% of the "decision designer" and on the other hand on the one that I think will read because I don't know what kind of party reasons. Please, Vesnik's paper contains some 6000 collections of some 12 million documents covering all Croatian companies and articles about about 100,000 public figures. It's being kept permanent. It was even invested by the Vesnik administration from the beginning of 2004 to the end of 2005 in the creation of tools for the emergence of the first Croatian interactive database of written newspaper Vesnik's newspaper documentation. Then all of a sudden, it suddenly stopped when it had to come to life. It has therefore ceased with one, with an extremely important technological information and information and communication base, for which among other things there is an interest from foreign partners. And the Austrians are interested in how we could in some way create our own parity base here that could already use what the Vesnik already has in terms of global, already globalization factors of market knowledge, knowledge of the situation. Because it can be searched in hundreds of possible ways. And it's an extraordinary instrument, the development instrument of the Vesnik himself. Please, please, about not having a word in your answer, but what we've heard and seen here by what's written about it, it's not understood at all. However, this is being disabled and it suddenly stops, and it is said that the administration is no longer interested in it and that someone third is wanted for the Vesnik documentation. It was even meant to be sold for a while, but then fortunately the Ministry of Culture, so I pray the Ministry of Culture of this government, not my Government said the following. It is also indisputable in this case the primary recent information value of this material although it also has the value of historical cultural goods. In view of this, we believe that this documentation should be preserved as a single collection and that it should be made available to the public, i.e. that it is necessary to remain within the framework of institutions under national supervision. You on the other hand are talking about privatisation. Privatizing what? Is this the element of privatisation? You say he won't enter the so-called. Family relations, so I didn't go into family relations with who's who, but it says it's a daughter company, and now you're saying it's not a daughter company, it's a company founded. So the Vesnik isn't just about not being a daughter company, it's about to be kicked out of the company, so it's either a gift or not. The documentation stays there, it was tried as much from several statements by the responsible people in "The Vesnik" heard and sold so it couldn't have happened after it came from the Ministry of Culture, whether it was also in the drum of what "The Vesnik" to say offers for sale. Now you're offering privatisation. So privatisation of who? So we're asking what kind of privatisation? Well, that's the subject of what we're asking to be the government's answer. I was thinking, and if you want something I'm going to suggest to you right now so we don't have to come to you, because it seems to me that if you don't intend to go to the Parliament with a particular document that would be much, much more precise and that would not be used to some of the arguments that have been heard here. As well as fellow Bošnjakovic, who has also mentioned a negative trend since the 1990s. Continuing. That's not true. '92, '93. The Vesnik has begun to edit and has grown rapidly and has also grown from about 10,000 to 30,000 copies. This means that editorial policy has an impact on how much "Vjesnik" will be sold, because this has been confirmed please in the phase not in 2000 and 2003, but also in the phase of 2002, 2003 in the summer phase of '92, forgive me. I'm sorry, I hope we understood where the government was, then, quite certain. But then it turned out that actually the "Walk" couldn't exactly be this way that some of the debaters got maximum support here. He can't be state-owned in a way that presents the newsletter as a state. He has to be an active state. I am saddened to see sheets that are not only of state but almost and almost also of state, and knowing that we don't have one leaf that could really be a form of broad communication for citizens that still doesn't have only 1% but also much more that you wanted such a list. That's why we need something else. And I thought that since you have such powers, and since she's not the government, I'm sorry she hasn't done anything more in that direction. So she went to the rescue as much as she could, but she didn't even threaten the Vesnik. This is the first time things start to get serious. So, I'm sorry you're not going to the Vashnik Act. We have the HINA Act. We have the Law on Croatian Radio Television. This is a public one good that you can solve by law in a way that you don't have to worry about whether it's a company or if it's some other institution. The press, the paperwork, the Vesnik, that's one whole. No one has the right to declare who has the right to what, what and who is there to whom you owe. There's no argument that she's here, that the printer was paying someone something. She wasn't paying for the printer, she was paying for the Vesnik, they were formed for each other. It may not have been happy or fitting to another spirit of time in which it could have been. We know that today is not the time in which it can be done. But that's why we're looking for one whole and much more serious indication where we recommend a very wide procedure. And now a procedure that will not slave to that part of the legislation that can solve something only as a company or as an institution. There are laws on such things. If Vesnik is such a public good, he deserves such a law. Especially that you can only solve the issue of documentation, only so you can preserve documentation, you can connect the HINA system, "Vjesnika", Croatian RadioTelevision, I don't know what else through this element into a common system in which there are two strong public media, one is electronic, the other is press, but also that area between them that is without competition in that case. Although it is the documentation "Vjesnik" which can be the source of certain generation of economic interests of the "Vjesnik" himself as houses. It's hitchhiked now. It was hitched by an argument I'm not going to read to you right now, even though I've written it down because I've certainly picked up some of the statements in the article. I don't want to sharpen or enjoy it in that sense. But you don't have a competent leadership at this point that can in a complex way figure out what it's all about. That they're printers, they're real estate, everybody knows that. But what's "The Vesnik" and what's his public function is not everyone knows, what is documentation and what is its public function and what is its possibility even less. These are issues where we'd like to cooperate. And what we suggest to you, we suggest a more complete demonstration with some kind of strategic decisions that are recognizable. Not only do we need a strategic partner and we'll privatize. So please, what does that mean? Well, that's not the right answer to this question. It's more complicated. I ask you to consider it one more time and indeed we are in opposition and we have more time to take care of some things. But there wasn't a shred of any investance here in terms of what should be expected of "The Vesnik." This is an extremely serious issue, and here, in the face of a solution to this issue, we are not the only ones standing here proposing this impelation or government, the Parliament itself stands. And there's a public who, as a journalistic public, is extremely interested in what the result of all of this is going to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66516	Thank you very much. We have one correction, Mr. Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66517	So, respected counterpart Vujic said that the earlier government did not know what it had done to resuscitate the Vesnik in the past term, which is of course true, but said it did not endanger him, and that this government is jeopardising him. I have to correct this incorrect information in my opinion, the incorrect allegation, I think it's pretty rough and for the pure reason that in fact all the activities the government has undertaken, and even the establishment of this new company, are just going to resuscitate the existing bad situation and the possibility that this situation will be better fixed, which no one disputes that there's a lot of space actually to fix. There's only that much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-01-0.u66518	Thank you for closing the debate, and tonight we will conclude this session. Tomorrow, at 9.30 p.m., we begin with the proposal of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, a proposal for a conclusion which is bound by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit a detailed report on the policy which is being adopted, i.e. by not adopting certain sublegal acts. Goodbye! Good night! Session interrupted at 18.40 hours Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. I wish everyone a good morning! We move to the item of the agenda: - Proposal for a conclusion that is bound by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit a detailed report on the policy adopted, i.e. by not adopting certain sublegislative acts – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the HSS; you received the proposal by post. The debate was conducted by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the report at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? He does. On behalf of the promoter, representative Mr Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
