ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71897	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 22nd session of the Croatian Parliament. I welcome you all very much. This session also begins with a regular session of the Croatian Parliament, which, according to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Rules of Procedure, begins on 15 September and ends on 15 December. I welcome the Prime Minister, Mr Ivo Sanader, Vice-President, Vice-President and members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I invite you to pay tribute at the beginning of the session to the homeland by performing anthem "Beautiful Our Homeland". - The performance of the Anthem "Beautiful Our Homeland" - Ladies and gentlemen MPs invite you to pay tribute for a minute of silence to the fallen Croatian defenders and all civilian victims of the war in the fight for the homeland. - A moment of silence - And a respected colleague, recently deceased representative Joseph Sudec. - A minute of silence - Let them be eternal glory and thank you. You have received the minutes of the 21st session of the Croatian Parliament. Any objections to the record? There isn't. I'm confirming that we've adopted the record. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the agenda of the session. With the invitation to the session, you also received a draft agenda. You are also given the final draft agenda at the session. In the final draft agenda, I left out one point: Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Emigrants Matika, Proposer of Representatives Petar Selem, Ivan Bagaric and MP Zdenka Babić-Petricevic. That point was withdrawn by the applicants from the procedure. I included 5 new points in the final draft agenda: Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Transport Act, Decision amending the Order and dynamics of the privatisation of the INA-Industry of Oil, d.d., granting consent, Proposal for a National Policy for the Promotion of Gender Equality 2006 to 2010 and Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law with the Final Proposal of the Law, Proposer of the SDP Club, an emergency procedure. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. The final draft agenda referred to in points 3 to 8 and paragraphs 12 to 15 shall state the laws for which an emergency procedure is proposed. These are: 1. Proposal for a law on the confirmation of contracts between the Republic of Croatia and the Federal Republic of Germany on the avoidance of double taxation of income taxes and on property with the Final Bill. 2. Proposal for a law confirming the International Convention on Civil Responsibility for damages due to pollution to fuel oil from 2001 with the Final Bill. 3. Proposal for a law on the confirmation of a contract between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on security procedures for the exchange of classified information with the Final Proposal for a Law. 4. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between Croatia and the European Community on Croatia's participation in the multiannual Energy Community programme "Intelligent Energy in Europe 2003-2006" with the Final Bill. 5. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on cooperation in the fight against crime with the Final Bill. Six. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty on Amendments and Supplements to the Framework Treaty on credit between the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Council of Europe Development Bank for the financing of the Small and Medium Entrepreneurship Credit Programme with the Final Proposal of the Law. Seven. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Procedure Act, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. Number 534. Eight, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Waste Act, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 535, Proposal for a Law on the Power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain questions from the Croatian Parliament's section, with the Final Proposal for a Law, and the Proposal for a Law on Lising, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure and the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Criminal Law, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, the Proposer of the SDP Club. The application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law under paragraph 52 was decided at the last session. I note that the laws set out in the final draft agenda under points 12 and 14 bear the P.Z.E. mark. the application of the emergency procedure in accordance with Article 161; We do not vote in our Rules of Procedure, and these are: One, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure and Others, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Waste Act, emergency procedure. Do any of the representatives and advocates have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the other proposed laws? Dear Representative, Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71898	Your Honor, Mr. President. On behalf of the Croatian party club, I suggest that the urgency of the bill be removed. There are several reasons why this bill should not be passed in an emergency procedure, I will list a few of the most important. In fact, Croatia needs the Law on Leasing, but not as it is normised and as it is directed to read, because it deals primarily with leasing as a credit debt, and it does not discuss lying from the point of view of the legal institute as well as in the countries of the European Union and in all other countries, as well as the text of this law if we consider it as a credit responsibility and on the Committee yesterday it was for legislation, there are a huge number of amendments and remarks, so I suggest that the Government withdraws urgency and that we get a law where we can bring our views into line with the legal gains of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71899	Thank you. Second, honourable representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71900	Dear Mr. President, I would like to point out the objection to the inclusion in the agenda of the Amendments and Supplements Act, Proposer of the SDP Club, so point 13 by emergency procedure. We object to the law being passed by an emergency procedure. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: The Rules of Procedure to adopt the law in question in an emergency parliamentary procedure, and also the grounds for urgency in action, are not as stated by the Proposer, Article 161(1). Rules of Procedure. In conclusion, I suggest that this law is not discussed in an emergency parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71901	Thank you. Dear Representative Florian Boras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71902	Dear Mr. President, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, I would like to point out the urgency of the draft law under regular number 16, this is the proposal for a law on teaching. In fact, although there really are legitimate state reasons, especially economic reasons for this law to be passed as soon as possible in professional circles, there is still a dispute over certain... and I therefore believe that through two readings and those participants would allow them to engage in the debate. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71903	Thank you very much. As regards the Leasing Act, therefore, the Government's proposal to follow this regular procedure is accepted. We're going to the vote. Please, let's get on with it. Please quorum. 82 MPs and MPs, so we have a valid quorum. We are going to vote on whether or not to apply the draft law for inclusion in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Federal Republic of Germany on the avoidance of double taxation of income and property taxes. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 87 votes in favour and 2 abstentions, this final bill was included in the agenda. Secondly, who is responsible for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the International Convention on Civil Responsibility for damages caused by pollution to fuel oil from 2001? Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 85 for, 2 abstentions and one against and this final bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Third, who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on security procedures for the exchange of classified information? Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 84 for, 5 abstentions and one against and this law is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between Croatia and the European Community on Croatia's participation in the multiannual community programme in the field of energy: "Intelligent Energy in Europe"? Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? Unanimously, with 85 votes in favour and this law is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on cooperation in the fight against crime? Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 83 votes in favour and 2 abstentions and this final bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is involved in the implementation of the emergency procedure on the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on Amendments and Supplements of the Framework Agreement on Credit between the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Council of Europe Development Bank for the financing of the Small and Medium Entrepreneurship Credit Programme? Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 82 votes in favour and 2 abstentions and this final bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is the subject of an emergency procedure on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club? Please, let's get on with it. You can vote. The result? For 31, 3 abstentions, 56 against. In the event of inclusion in the agenda of this proposal, we will act in accordance with Article 203(2). Rules of Procedure. It is not included in the agenda by emergency procedure in this bill. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament? Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 61 for, 9 abstentions,19 against. Therefore, this bill is also included in the agenda by emergency procedure. The Law on Leasing goes into second reading because the government's position was accepted so that MPs Pera Kovacevic and Florian Borasa's objection was also accepted. The written objection to the agenda I proposed with a call for the session was filed on 22 September by HSP Representatives' Club. The objection is not justified. The club of HSP representatives on 4 July 2006 provided me with the Interpelation on the work of the Government and other relevant bodies of the Croatian Parliament on sanctioning established illegalities in conversion, privatisation since 15 December 2005. By letter dated 14 July, I informed the HSP Representatives' Club that they were unable to refer to that interpretation in the procedure because it was not made up in accordance with Article 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Representative Pero Kovacevic objected that the interpretation was not included in the agenda and put his reasons why he held that the interpretation should be placed on the agenda. In this correspondence, I presented the reasons why I hold that it does not comply with the Rules of Procedure, and my colleague Kovacevic, since there is a dispute about it, I will refer it to your proposal to decide on this by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Representative Slaven Letica presented me with an initiative and a proposal to complete the final debate on the legal, economic and social mass psychological consequences of the completion of the process of revision, conversion and privatisation in the Republic of Croatia in the agenda of the Croatian Parliament on 18 September. I delivered this to the government immediately, to deliver the relevant material so that the debate could be conducted. And the other written objections to the agenda that I proposed with the call for a session were not made, and this agenda is considered adopted in accordance with Article 203(4). This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure can now be given only to those points which did not contain the draft agenda with a call for a session, which are - Report of the mandate-immunity committee; - Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Transport in Road Transport, Second Reading; - Decision amending the Order and Dynamics of Privatisation of the INA-Industry of Oil d.d. – granting consent; - Proposal for a national policy to promote gender equality in 2006-2010. Any of the representatives object to including any of these four proposed items in the agenda? There isn't. In accordance with Article 205 of the Financial The Rules of Procedure should now publish the established agenda. I propose not to read the whole established agenda, but to announce that the agenda has been established as we voted in the final draft agenda. Do you agree? Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. Please determine the quorum. Please engage. There's over 80 and something, and it doesn't show here. The result? 77, good. Ladies and gentlemen of the Commission pursuant to Article 204(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I will propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda of the 22nd session to the next points. 1. Proposal for a law on the confirmation of an international convention on the control of harmful ship conversion systems from 2001, emergency procedure, 2. Proposal for a bill to confirm the memorandum of understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Marco Polo programme, emergency procedure, 3. Proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a project to bring agricultural legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union, an emergency procedure, 4. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Organisation for the Use of Meteorological Satellites in the Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the Convention establishing a European Organisation for the Use of Meteorological Satellites and the relevant conditions, emergency procedure, 5. Proposal for a law supplementing the Personal Data Protection Act, emergency procedure, 6. Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on compulsory health insurance, emergency procedure, 7. Proposal for a law supplementing the Insurance Statutory Act with increased duration, emergency procedure, 8. Proposal for a Law on the financing of political parties, first reading, 9. National population policy proposal, 10. Proposals for decisions on the resolution of so far and the appointment of a new member of the Committee on Ethics and Science in Higher Education, 11. Proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency, 12. Proposal for a decision on the resolution of part of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Reporting News Agency. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. The proposal for a law supplementing the Personal Data Protection Act, with the Final Proposal for a Law bearing the P.Z. as an emergency procedure and pursuant to Article 161(1). We don't vote on the rules of procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of other proposed laws? There isn't. We're going to the vote. Please, let's get on with it. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the International Convention on the Control of Harmful Anti-Trafficking Systems of 2001? Please, who's in? The result? In agreement with 83 votes, the application of the emergency procedure for the adoption of this law has been established. Secondly, who is for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Marco Polo programme? Please, who is it, please vote. The result? With 81 votes for, one abstention, the application of the emergency procedure for the adoption of this law has also been established. Third, who is for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development with the project of harmonising agricultural legislation with the acquis of the European Union? Please vote. The result? With 82 votes for, one abstention, the application of the emergency procedure for the adoption of this law has also been established. Fourthly, who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Organisation for the Use of Meteorological Satellites in the Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the Convention establishing a European Organisation for the Use of Meteorological Satellites and the relevant conditions? Please, let's get on with it. The result? Unanimity with 82 votes in favour of, established application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of this law. Fifth, who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Mandatory Health Insurance Act? Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 83 votes in favour and one abstention, one vote against, an emergency procedure for the adoption of this law has been established. Sixth, who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Mandatory Health Insurance Act? Application of the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Act supplementing the Insurance Statutory Act with an increased duration. We can vote. The result? With 75 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 4 against and this bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the inclusion in the agenda of the other proposed points? There isn't. The completion of the agenda has been established.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71906	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm asking the Minister of Interior, Mr. Kirin. I'm a representative of one national community, one Italian, which is after II. World War II remained with Istria, Rijeka and Kvarner Islands, some with Dalmatia and western Slavonia. Regardless of what it meant to some, we believe that, by choosing the region, the city, the hometown, we made a good decision, and yet, because of this, however, the national symbols in us remained constantly as strong, equally strong, and therefore we note today with great discomfort that the insult of the Italian flag, the official flag of our minority and our features continue with equal intensity in particular lately. The Italian flag was removed twice in Split, a plate of our local Italian community was destroyed in Zadar, three flags disappeared and crushed this year in Poreč. A similar attempt occurred in front of the honourary Italian consulate in Pula, fortunately failed, while in Rovinj, an official visit disappeared from our banner, which was re-established only by the intervention of the mayor of Istria and the Mayor of Rovinj. Mr. Minister, if the perpetrators will not be found, and none has been found so far, despite the efforts of the Istrian, Istrian police alone, I have followed the investigation and I know that they have advocated, if I do not find the perpetrators again, we will never know whether it is vandals, hooligans, conducting provocations or God forbid more serious actions aimed at destroying Croatia's reputation. Our community is offended and concerned. Foreign press creates public opinion that Croatia does not deserve. And that's why I'm asking you as Secretary of Staff for a serious and detailed explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71907	Minister Ivica Kirin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71908	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, Your Honor, Mr Furio Radin. I just want to say a few words. Look, usually in cases like this, not just this one, but everyone else that applies to the attack on national minorities usually seems at a time when it is known that there are no near eyewitnesses and is done in a way to make as few material clues as possible. This finding that the Istrian police alone is working, I would like to say that the Istrian police are the Croatian police and that the Croatian police throughout their entire territory are doing their job equally. So there's no Istrian police, but there's an Istrian administration that, like all other administrations, is responsible for just finding the perpetrators of such crimes. Croatia has publicly declared itself a multinational, multicultural country that wants to join the European Union with all its values. Our values are also national minorities. And the position of the Ministry of Interior and the Government of the Republic of Croatia is that we must all be together, not just the police as the last segment when something happens to act to prevent, educate citizens and that citizens will be the ones to inform police officers to be eyewitnesses just when such acts appear. Because these works are also harmful to Croatian citizens and therefore we are personally all Croatian citizens in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia, and therefore we are particularly interested in resolving this. I, as Minister of the Interior, can only say that we are familiar and that all of these acts are still being processed, but once again, through the police administrations, we will ask citizens to provide us with information, because these individuals are obviously in short supply and their own cultures are doing such works. It's always the hardest thing for us as the Ministry of the Interior to do when we don't have enough leads and we don't have enough eyewitnesses. That is why I call on the national minority of Italian and Italian communities in Croatia to help us find common activities in their midst, possibly the perpetrators of criminal acts that today will attack the Italian national minority, tomorrow they will be any other, and they will not be trusted and go on and on the state features of the Republic of Croatia, as we have had several cases. So I can only promise you as Minister of the Interior that I will personally insist that these cases be resolved, but once again I ask for the help of the citizens because it is a common job of the citizens and the police because we show it to the European Community as well as to ourselves as we are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71909	Representative Furio Radin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71910	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, unfortunately I didn't get an answer. I agree with you only that the Istrian police are the Croatian police, and we agree. We don't have information about other things, unfortunately. Let's wait in the future for these cases to be resolved in the hope that it won't happen again, that it won't happen again because when they don't identify themselves, when they don't find the perpetrators, the way for others to do the same things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71911	Dear Representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71912	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government. I'd like to ask Dragan Primorac, Minister. Mr. Minister, you have announced mandatory secondary education and I am interested in how you will spend it and I am glad that this announcement is published because a large number of children who finish primary school do not enroll in high school. We don't know what's going on with these kids, they're thousands of kids who don't go to school anymore and don't have a chance to never study or study again. I am still interested in how you will provide the means for compulsory education, in which way you will provide space for these schools. And I'd still be interested in what countries in Europe have such a thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71913	Minister Dragan Primorac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71914	Mr. President, MPs and MPs, respected counterpart Zubovic. I'll try to answer your questions briefly. It is true that every generation depends on the county, between 15% and 25% of children never finish high school. According to preliminary data done by several Croatian public scientific institutes, this means that somewhere around 70,000 children will never get a high school degree in the next eight years, meaning one whole generation. However, another extremely big problem is repeated, which is that from 10 to 12,000 children will not have any qualifications besides those children, as they will have completed courses, they will not have completed secondary vocational education, either three-year, four-year or high school education. Croatia is unfortunately with only one country, Macedonia, has so short compulsory education, eight-year-olds. On the other hand, by introducing compulsory secondary education, Croatia becomes one of three countries, as far as I know who has such a long system of education, and I said recently in Kyoto, and the Japanese government has shown great interest in the Croatian model because it is very unusual, because it includes I would say the entire vertical education system, practically ensuring that every child enters the university. When you ask the question how to secure it. During this period of the last three years, about 340 million or 109 school investments have been allocated directly from the state budget. From decentralised funds that go and grow after 2001, a total of about 720 million were allocated to finance construction or upgrade of about 500 school facilities. However, a project C5 launched before the government's mandate continued during our mandate resulted in the construction and construction of 144 school facilities. So, to this day, about 300 school facilities have been built which gives Croatia a great predisposition to make this step. You're asking me about employees. To this day, it has been employed in the last 3 years by 3,000 and 900 teachers in primary, secondary and higher education. For your information, only about two and a half thousand in primary and secondary education in the last three years. The key problems that bother us are transportation and student homes. Today, however, dormitories for high school students have approximately an empty capacity of 25%, so that the first generation since next year of the 9th month we can very, I would say, strongly... An investment that will cover only 4 months next year for the transport of students, which is our obligation to them is about 25 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In other words, esteemed representative, at this time Croatia has abilities both human and spatial. Of course, in some areas, and we are doing this intensively, we need to do more, so that Croatia can be proud of the unique model that gives Croatia the right to be what our goal is in 2010 and this is the most competitive education system in this part of Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71915	Representative Mario Zubović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71916	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I asked you that question because, I think, six years ago, the data came out that only 7% to 8% of Croats were highly educated. Yesterday we saw in one survey that the most satisfied people in Croatia are highly educated and that is why I am pleased that through this project Croatia will raise the number of educated people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71917	Dear Representative Jaksa Marasovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71918	Mr. President. By mistake, I ask the Minister's question, and I intend to ask the Prime Minister, because the Minister's office has been more or less clear and too many times answered these questions that I intend to ask, and this is about the collapse that has been happening in the Municipality of Rogoznica in recent weeks, which is the consequence of bringing people down to the hospital, the hunger strike. So maybe there's going to be fatalities, and a man wonders who actually needs it? I mean, I'm fully aware it's illegal construction, but I think it's illegal demolition. For the simple reason that there is no plan-space documentation in this area and for this area. In fact, there is no basic document which is a spatial plan, nor is there anything lower than that document. Except that there are solutions that bring building inspection of the destruction of the facility. I must also warn that 16% of the area is affected by this wild construction or illegal construction and that there are several hundred buildings, and we are aware that there are several hundred thousand illegal buildings in Croatia. And my question is primarily focused on the rule of law and the equality of citizens. I ask, since it crashes on Vira, it collapses in Rogoznica, when will it collapse in Zagreb, when will it collapse in Kašteli, when will it collapse in Split, when will it collapse in the entire territory of Croatia where citizens have built illegal buildings? That's my question because I think it's primarily important that we have a legal state and that we don't have more equal citizens. And we have even down there on that ground of equal citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71919	Thank you. Minister Marina Matulović-Dropulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71920	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Well, I think that we are constantly present in newspapers and everywhere and on television where we spoke and talked and warned constantly about illegal construction. The fact is that the illegal construction took place in Croatia in certain cycles, and one of those cycles was unfortunately in 2001 when the former government proposed, and the Parliament passed a law that all illegally built objects could join the municipal infrastructure and passed a law that deleted deadlines for the development of spatial plans in Croatia. The question is, what does that mean? What it was, but you're building an illegal call, and it's all going to be legalized. And it's actually coming from your question right now, and you see, that we should legalize everything. I repeat again, it is valid for Rogoznica, it is valid for all of Croatia, we have not crashed anywhere in areas that have or do not have a spatial plan if they are in the construction area. As far as Rogoznica is concerned, they haven't had a spatial plan for years, but there is a law, there is a spatial plan of the county and changes and additions of the county's spatial plan that exactly say what is in Rogoznica or in other parts of the area of each such county, where are construction areas and where are not construction areas. And regardless of what plan she would like to adopt, she is the Municipality of Rogoznica or any other municipality, she cannot bring it against the spatial plan of the county, against the law and against the regulation on the protection of the coastal belt. Therefore, we and the Construction Inspectorate are destroying only where it is not possible to legalize it. So, no matter what plan the Municipality of Rogoznica has adopted, some parts are in no way, and because of the county's spatial plan and because of the coastal area protection Regulation, they cannot be included in the plan, so they cannot legalise. And there's one more thing, right in Rogoznica. In 2004, we crashed in Rogoznica, people continued to build. Regardless of the demolitions and no matter the warnings, and regardless of the systematic parts of the inspection. They went on well, they worked... They kept working and we had to act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So they're all in the same position. We also crashed in Zagreb, we crashed in Split, there are many parts of Croatia, and we will tear down only those objects that cannot be legalized. Now that the spatial plans have started to work seriously and since 1.1.2004 you must know that 157 spatial plans have been made in Croatia since 550. Today they're made or we're about to make 466 plans. We have all warned and prayed for such plans to be adopted which will be able to legalize as many objects as possible because it is of interest to all of us to legalise as many objects as possible but what cannot be legalized simply cannot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71921	Representative Jaksa Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71922	I hear applause, I'd love to see who applauded. In fact, Madam Minister, you are constantly referring to 2001 and the former government and the former government's mistakes. Your government passed a law in 1992 that was worth three years, so at the worst time of the war it was worth the law and all the facilities could be legalized by that time. And what you're saying, you have such facilities today with a building permit in the Municipality of Rogoznica. ... And for whom will they remain, in the pasture, on the green surface, such objects? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Who are these facilities going to be left for? So you're running around in Leopard's skin it's true, selectively destroying it's true and down there the people are convinced that... You probably wouldn't be tearing down those houses if they were possibly Serbian or Roma, that's what people think down there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71923	Honored representative Marija Lugarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71924	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, dear Prime Minister, members of the government! I have a question for the Prime Minister. Dear ministers, in January 2004, so at the moment of the change in government average education salaries amounted to 4 thousand 157 kuna, i.e. 87 kuna higher than the average salary in the country at the time. According to the latest data from the Institute of Statistics, the average salary in education today is 105 kuna less than the average salary in the country. Based on this lagging behind teachers and teachers in primary and secondary schools during these three years, two salaries have actually been denied. This is what all the educational unions are warning about all the verticals that are announcing the strike because, in my view, they don't quite rightly accept your proposal for an increase, 5% of the salary increase, because this increase is going to eat the inflation that is around 4-5% and there won't actually be a real increase in the teacher's salary. I ask you, will you and when will you increase your salary to teachers and teachers in primary and secondary schools but so it represents a real and realistic salary increase and that you finally start to appreciate this profession without which there is no change in education, and if you don't do so, it seems to me that all of your fairy tales about what has to be done will remain just fairy tales and I think that only by increasing wages can we guarantee any changes and I'm wondering if you'll continue to cut your salary to the educators as you've done these three years, or will you finally increase those salaries?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71925	Minister Dragan Primorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71926	Mr. President! Dear MPs, thank you very much for your question that I agree with in many segments that teachers are underpaid and it is simply a matter of years in Croatia, and allow me just a few very concrete examples of what is going on with the education system and what we have done. One of the key segments of the negotiations with the social partners over the last three years has actually gone in the direction of making one single common policy of pay for the whole public sector and Mr. Shucker could better tell you what this projection of salary growth is planned for the next three years, which is for the first time in a segment somewhere around 15 or goes more than 20% if looked at from three years. It's a three-year increase of 5%, which is very real and potential at the moment, but the largest maybe in the last ten years. However, allow me another segment to tell which one you know very well. If I hadn't had one problem by getting into my ministry and the problem was extremely large and that was a billion and 200 million kuna debt that I wasn't even responsible for regresses, shift work and everything else unpaid we could provide a salary increase of around 40%, but we had to deal with all these years by paying back debts. To this day, out of a billion, 200 million kuna, we have dropped the debt and it totals 156 million kuna. So, with all this effort, I support you, we need to think about salary growth, but objectively in three years, by repaying the entire debt of one billion kuna, 35,000 lawsuits, total educational paralysis, I'd say and the judicial system allow me to do the maximum. And when you're talking about teachers, these aren't fairy tales. In total, about a thousand-and-a-half teachers produced HNOS, a state graduate and all the university teachers in conducting the Bologna process. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71927	Dear representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71928	Your Honor, you've been in power for three years. After three years of government calling on the debts of the former government, I think it only proves the thesis of incompetence. That you're capable of solving problems, of fighting for wages like it did to colleagues who are dealing with just now... Then they wouldn't call on debts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because that's how every government has debts or debts from the previous government. Secondly, if you had done as much as you claim to have done maximum then you would have insisted on budgeting on increasing the funds for salaries and would not have allowed for the first time in the history of Croatian teachers' salaries to be below the average salary in Croatia. So far, they've always lag behind public services, public administration, police, etc. For the first time in history, after three years of your term of office, the salaries are below average salaries in the state. I am asking you to give me an additional answer that you will give me exactly the wage projection at the time you can plan and I really ask you to stop making declarations and start doing things concrete, you have an opportunity on this state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71929	Thank you. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71930	Dear Mr. President, first of all, I would be fenced by the racism of Jaksa Marasovic who does not allow in this House of Highs. My question goes to you, Mr. Prime Minister. First of all, I am extremely pleased that you have come to this humble High House of ours, although I have followed with great care your American political rapsody as well as the rapsody of our President of the Republic and the special correspondent of Globus, Mr Stjepan Mesic. He was taken to his happy future by Budo Lončar among the peers and followers of the ideas of the famous global Democrats Mottu, Hejlasevasia, the second Tito and Fidel Castro, and your good villa and vivid imagination led you to the future of Croatia. But we live here in this High House in our troubled present, and I have announced to you one question about the revision of conversion and privatisation, but I thank the President. He took the initiative, so he would ask one easier question. And more importantly. It reads: Do you share the belief of the President of the Republic that the arms embargo used the Republic of Croatia in 1991. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71931	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71932	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Representative Letica. First of all, thank you for the great compliment that you have shown to me and the Croatian State delegation for following everything we have done in the United States for the benefit of Croatia to strengthen Croatia's international position and I can tell you that your young son, who is one of the most prospective Croatian students as I heard at Yale, participated very actively and And he told me, and he told me that it would be good, and he and the other students who were there to come from Croatia and more state officials, MPs, to turn to these universities, because there is still a lot of work to do to correct the truth about Croatia. [[The intruders don't understand.]] And one of the needs to be corrected is the truth. Therefore, Croatia was attacked, was the victim of large-serb aggression and we had to defend ourselves. And I think that one of the biggest mistakes of the International Community or the United Nations is that when Croatia was to defend itself, it introduced the arms embargo. I think I answered your question.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71933	Representative of the Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71934	Mr. Prime Minister, this time I'm 100 percent satisfied with your response, and this jealousy of people who don't appreciate it, not because of what my son is, but about a play by maybe a 100-year-old or 200 young people who ended up at the best universities in America, who work on Wall Street, who are lecturers and researchers at leading universities, you show up among them as one of the people who understands it, and there are people who think when someone goes to the opera to go there to consider murky jobs. But it's an old communist thesis, you shouldn't go to the theater. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71935	Representative, Your Honor, Miroslav Cacci, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71936	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister with members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I'm asking the prime minister. One of the points of the HDZ and HSU agreement is that the average pensions are adjusted at 50% of the net salary as early as January 1st 2005. According to official data for August, the proportion of the average pension of 1914 kuna in the average net salary is 42%. Although it may be more interesting and realistic about 39.7% of the media. In order to correct the injustices against 320 thousand new pensioners who were retired after 1999 with an average pension of 1200 kuna, well below 30% of the average salary of the HSS MPs' Club, he referred to the procedure of the draft law to coordinate pensions of new and foreign pensioners on 1 June 2006. The government of the Republic of Croatia unfortunately gave a negative opinion on both proposals with a reason to quote the proposals of the HSS Club's law "infringing the relationship between pensions achieved in different periods". This can be interpreted as having data showing that there is no difference in pensions between new and old pensioners. But despite the government's negative opinion on the HSS' proposals, you announced to Mr. Prime Minister the solution to this problem next year. And they also admitted that there is a problem and that there is a need to solve this problem. Mr. Prime Minister, why are you delaying solving the problem for the next election year when new pensioners need bigger and deserved pensions today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71937	Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71938	Dear Mr. Cachia, you've read your question about what it suggests to me and to those who look at you that you don't know much about what you're talking about and that you can't talk about it by heart. I, unlike you, will tell you that the government has formed a working group long before the HSS sent a proposal in June, Mr. Kolar, before you referred the proposal, yes, formed a working group that works to solve the problem of new pensioners. So you don't need to read, if you know all the data then you know we're working on it and we're gonna keep working on it. So if one government has done anything for Croatian pensioners, then this government has done it for the old and we will do it for the new ones. And in this sense, if you want to participate in a working group that started working long before your proposal, I invite you to participate in the working group because we really want one way that suits Croatia's opportunities to solve the problem of new pensioners. Without politics, without quoting when you sent a letter because I can tell you that we are on the Economic and Social Council and with the social partners and with the Pension Party agreed working group on it. And we gave ourselves the task of resolving the issue in 2007. So if you are really interested in solving the problem of new pensioners, I urge you to give the HSS a representative in the task force that is already working on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71939	The Honorable representative only responds to the representative Ivan Chachi. You'll get, uh... Just answer the question first. [[The speaker is not understood because of the announcement.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71940	Mr. Prime Minister, I'm afraid of what I can say other than that you insulted me, but you haven't answered my question. I can only say next. These few months, we've been getting to know each other very well, and these 320 thousand people are familiar with the problem we've told you about here, or said. I'm the truth, and God read this because I have to do it in two minutes. That's what I'm looking after. So, unfortunately, I'm not satisfied, people live on the border of really poverty, and after years of being paid into a pension fund, they're getting less and less, and today you're simply transferring that problem I don't know, probably for next year's election. I'm not satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71941	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71942	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, I ask you to warn the Prime Minister in the way he talks to the MP, and it is not appropriate for Mr. Prime Minister to insult the MP in the Croatian Parliament because he wrote the question. The MP wants to be precise, he wants to be precise, but you weren't precise, so I ask you to try to at least to make the sketch in writing in the future, because that commission of yours you've been calling us to hastened once and after, and the problems of the pensioners exist for a long time. The Commission met last year and has no results. However, you would like to right through this law to encourage the Commission's work and address the problem of a retired who is evident. 320 thousand people are waiting for a solution and you are insulting the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71943	You did not specify which article of the Rules of Procedure would have been injured for your duty, so I cannot comment on it. Representative Loncar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71944	Mr. President, you violated article 214. Yeah, well, it's a good thing you warned the MP that he didn't say which article. I ask you because he intervened with a plate of violations of the Rules of Procedure did not say which article you are invited to give him notice and yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71945	I won't even give you a warning, even though you should. If you had listened to me then you would have heard that I said that the MP did not specify which article of the Rules of Procedure held that he was injured. Therefore, I will not share any warnings, Agent Loncar. ... Now that's my right and I'll consume it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Dear Representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71946	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, distinguished members of the Croatian Government. Metal industry is an important branch of the Croatian economy. As a large metal complex, the former government privatised it in 2002, in a way that it sold it to a strategic partner, Mechiar, from Russia. The firm Mechiar entered Sisak Ironworks, fired most of the employees, cut most of those plants, sold on the stock market, and the activity continued only in the pipe rolling stock that manufactures in Sisak. In 2003, the company left Sisak and returned the pipe to the Republic of Croatia. The question is for the economy minister next. Mr. Minister, at which stage is the privatisation process of Sisak d.o.o. from Sisak?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71947	Minister Branko Vukelic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71948	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Dear Mr. Shirac, this is one question that is very brief and could be answered very briefly at which stage. I think everyone knows that on September 1st of this year the government decided to launch the privatisation of Sisak Ironworks or the Sisak tube rolling stock and so we expect these coming months to end the process. However, there is much work to be done until September 1st, and it is important to say here. You mentioned the past. She is indeed such that the last government had failed but two attempts to privatise the Sisak Ironworks. In 2001, Željezara Sisak went bankrupt, in 2002 an attempt to privatise with "Tradiimpex", but the failure of that year, in 2003, "Mecherstil" entered the property of the hardware store and, however, my ministry when we took responsibility for our portfolios, unfortunately, welcomed the situation that "Mecherstil" was leaving, in fact, leaving the project and did not meet what was to be fulfilled. Since then, practically since September 2004, it has been working intensively to preserve and continue production in the "Sisak" and "Sisak" mill, because it is a company that is important for Sisak as well. You said about metals and this is the area and Sisak by this metal industry, of course traditionally significant because of the 1700 people who worked and worked in this hardware store, because of the black metallurgy and production of steel in Croatia, which Croatia did not want and does not want to give up as strategically important economic branches. So, since September 2004, Sisak tube rolling stock has taken over all workers, the government has stopped with guarantees behind the company, and it practically continued its production in mid-2005, while preparing a black metallurgy restructuring programme and preparing tenders, so tendering, documentation for the privatisation of the ironworks. And what's important for the prominent. This privatisation that has begun will not really be as unsuccessful as those of the previous two because it has been done very thoroughly in accordance with our restructuring programme, harmonising it with all regulations and rules of both the European Union and the European Commission, harmonising it with the needs and conditions of the world and Europe steel market, and those conditions that are now in the competition are defined I think they are extremely good. These terms are defined together with our partners and these are unions. These conditions define that one who wants to buy the iron pipe, or the cylinder "Sisak", should take over 1209 workers to make a minimum commitment of at least two years, to keep those workers, to propose a business plan for the next 5 years of operation of the ironworks, to invest at least 100 million kuna and invest in the ironworks. So all these elements are saying what our intention is. And the intention is to have such a strategic partner who will not as a previous try to make only a temporary profit for himself but who will come to invest in the hardware, continue production, keep as many workers as possible and what is particularly important, we have done two important things before this competition: remont caprag with 200 people we have joined the rolling stock to be part of the whole that is privatized, I think it is very important for all of us and for trade unions especially and also 800 thousand square meters of land that is not in the function of the Sisak pipeline, so former ironworks, we have singled out, and this is an area that is very attractive for the new business zone in Sisak and for the development of entrepreneurship in that city which, like many other cities, have very potential for economic development. So that one complex action was, an activity that lasted over a year, but all the preparations were made very thoroughly and I'm sure this privatisation will be very successful unlike those of the previous ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71949	Representative Marko Shirac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71950	Mr. Minister, I am pleased that the Ministry and the Government are taking such measures to stabilise the situation in the cylinder in Sisak, because this rolling stock has a truly quality product that has a market in the Republic of Croatia, but also in the world. It is about the product behind which the name stands, and here you yourself have stated that this rolling stock employs a thousand 209 employees and measures taken by the government and that it takes the ministry to privatise in one other way than those two ways that failed, give one sense of security that this company will find its place in both Croatia and the world market. I'm happy with your answer and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71951	Dear Representative Nikola Ivanish, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71952	Thank you very much. Mr. President, distinguished members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The question for the prime minister concerns the financing of the Croatian health system. It is known that the health system in Croatia has huge problems or that it is also known that, somewhere in the middle of this year, the total debt of Croatian health was around 5 billion kunas. Afterwards we passed a package of health laws that is a fact, but these laws did not remove the causes that generate a constant crisis in Croatian health. We still have an extremely large shortage of medium medical personnel compared to the number of residents, we already have a number of doctors today, it is an extremely high age of specialists, the average age of specialists and all Croatian hospitals are at a loss but most of them such status that these debts should be resolved by counties that have no money for that, I don't think I need to convince anyone. We single out 9% of gross social product on our GDP while parallel to Germany, France or Ireland allocate 10% to 11% of their gross social product of 25 thousand euros. Based on this, data is generated, we extract between 400 and 450 euros per capita, while they amount to about 2.5 thousand euros annually, of course, per capita. This shows that we must seriously raise the issue of increasing the allocation of healthcare in this society regardless of what will be the source and therefore I ask you because you have made statements about it at the end of the summer. Does the Government have prepared measures to increase the allocation of funds for health care, and if there is what they are based on, do interventions in health or state budget problems? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71953	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71954	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. First of all, I'd like to apologize to Mr. Representative Chachia. I over-reacted, it's logical that if there's a clear question that can be read, I apologize. As for health insurance, in 2006 we increased by about a billion kunas for health care. In this year we plan another 700 million kuna, meaning further increase, and also increase for expensive medicines somewhere around 200 million kuna. What makes me particularly happy is also, and I think that you will also be happy, opening and beginning of cardiosurgery in Osijek, Split and finishing an idea project for KBC Rijeka. Therefore, the government will find and if you ask me from which resources, simply from increased revenues. So we increase every year as much as we can and as much as we think we can cover. So for the next year, the increase from half a billion to 700 million plus 200 million for expensive drugs and the completion of these big projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71955	Agent Nikola Ivanish, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71956	Thank you very much for your answer. But the answer is not what I expected, nor in the right sense of the word what I asked. We have a monthly minus of approximately 190 million kuna per year from 2.2 to 2.4 billion kuna for our regular system business. And given that transfers from the budget of intervention to individual projects are absolutely appreciated, that's what you're talking about. However, regardless of what you did in 2007 this basic problem of daily, monthly and annual debt generation will remain. We need to systematically increase the allocations for the basic financing of the health system otherwise the rights will continue to collapse, and they are currently destroyed because, of course, a damaged Croatian health insurance company based on drug rights is important, I don't think I should say it specifically because it is a fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71957	Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71958	Thank you. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues. I refer my question to the President of the Croatian Government, Dr. Sanader. Mr. President, on one of the most beautiful islands in Croatia and not only in Croatia but also in the Mediterranean and the world, on the island of Mljet, there was an illegal sale of state land. According to data and facts available so far, over a million square meters of state land has been sold on the island of Mljet. It is alarming that in the tender process, the head of the municipality of Nikola Hajdic, otherwise of the SDP, was warned by the State Attorney's Office that these particles of the country cannot and should not be sold because they are state property and that only the state can dispose of these particles. To make the matter worse, this same chief sold these plots as building land and deceived all those who made themselves known to the competition, because only a few months before that illegal sale, a spatial plan of the County of Dubrovnik-Neretvanska where these particles of land were green areas, i.e. the rest of the forest and forest land and were not included in the building area. Everyone knows that the plans of the higher order must be respected and that all plans of the lower order must be aligned with it, and so must the municipality of Mljet. On the other hand, today we will put a shameful low price that has been achieved in this sales directed by the SDP for a metre square from 12 kuna to 12.5 EUR. My question to you is what is your position, as president of the Croatian government, since it is a sale of illegal, state-owned land?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71959	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71960	Mr. Representative, Mr. President of the Parliament. My position is like any other Croatian citizen. We are in Croatia at a stage of approaching the European Union. And one of the most important topics is whether or not to sell out what we call national wealth, and everyone who knows Croatian islands, especially Mljet Island, knows that it is one of the most beautiful not only Croatian but even Mediterranean islands. Mljet is ours we can take him, he's from ancient times also known in literature as heaven on earth. So, I think, and here, it doesn't matter at all what political options anyone is, because I think that in Croatia, we have to take a hard action against any crime, bribery, corruption, especially illegal sales of state land regardless of who it is or who it's about. I therefore appeal only as President of the Executive Authority, can appeal and expect a quick investigation into this, completion of the investigation and sanctioning if the confirmation is stated that the land is state-owned, that it has been illegally sold, that it has been sold contrary to the plan of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County, a spatial plan that has been made. But I also appeal to the Croatian public, to continue to publicly invoke all those who pray, in one Pharisee way speak of the protection of national interests, while at the same time selling over a million squares of valuable land to one of the most beautiful Croatian islands. We, as you know, went with a proposal to protect the sale of Croatian islands and from those privates who own the entire islands of the right to buy the country. If the state does not show interest, and it will show and find funds, then it should be done by the county or the city. Thus, we first protected those islands owned by private persons. Such cases, I think, should simply be investigated by the relevant institutions to the end, it is, above all, that the State's Attorney's Office and that we expect soon to complete the investigation and sanctioning if it turns out to be true, and that would also mean that the country is returned because it has not been legally sold and we ask Mljet to return what is Croatian.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71961	Representative Frano Matušić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71962	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm happy with your answer. I'm sure the Mljets who call me every day about this problem, but also from this are to read and practice of a particular party, I cannot agree with you in this respect when you mention SDP, because this is not a lonely case. I will only remind the Croatian public of the Savudrija wave and the relationship of the SDP on this issue, but also at the moment I am using the opportunity to remind myself of the issue of demarcation in the Bokokokotor Bay where Croatia still does not control part of its sea territory, which was also made during the term of office of the former government. And one final note. I do not agree with those who detest your remarks to representative Chachia because I remember from the history of this House, from the Croatian Parliament, in the 19th century it was forbidden to read speeches in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71963	Honorable representative of Ivica Clem.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71964	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and members of the government. I refer the question to the vice-presidents of the government and the minister of the family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity. We have learned from the media about the introduction of a personal assistant project for people with disabilities. I, and I believe the wider Croatian public, is interested in how many people are so far covered by this project of your ministry and how much funds have been spent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71965	Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Jadranka Kosor, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71966	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, thank you for asking, because I think this project, quite new, is still in the pilot phase very little is known. It's a great project. Since May of this year, on the basis of a public call. So, the project that we want to get knowledge and experience so that we can translate these experiences into law and, of course, extend the project to all persons who need a personal assistant. So, in this phase to date, since May, this project refers to 78 people with the most severe disability in Croatia, so people with paraplegia, tetraplegia, muscle dystrophy, multiple sclerosis and various other diseases, i.e. diseases, hence motor difficulties. They are mostly immobilized persons who need the help of others to live with dignity and dignity. This project gives great results, so 78 people with the most severe damage, so persons who are immobilized, have received their personal assistants who care about them in doing all the most necessary jobs, hence personal hygiene, from washing, bathing, combing, cutting nails, going to a doctor, doing household work and all the things that daily life actually brings for all of us, and these people cannot do it alone. In this way we drove away, of course, family members, actually brought a new, completely new quality of life in these families where people with the most difficult disability live. The whole project went through a public call. Associations where people with the most difficult disabilities have done the most work and I have to say that the echo is great, so the letters of the person that this project refers to are just one new page in their lives every day. We continue this project next year, of course. So far, more than 3 million and 200 thousand kuna have been spent in the project, and I repeat that all the good experiences we have gained under this pilot project will be translated into law and I believe that soon, under the law of the right to personal assistant will be used by all persons in Croatia who need it. We are headed by the ministry and other projects such as adaptation projects and people with disabilities in cooperation with cities, municipalities and counties. We also did one, I would say, a big step for children, i.e. primary and secondary school students, who are undersighted, or blind. We've translated textbooks for those children, and I think that, here, for students who have vision problems, who are blind, are also new pages in life because they're eager for schooling, they're eager for knowledge, they're eager for education. I repeat, the personal assistant is something new, but something that gives great results and I believe that you, but also other representatives with care, will follow the follow-up in the next 2007 which will be provided in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71967	Thank you. Agent Ivica Clem, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71968	For this very reason, I have also referred this parliamentary question because I am familiar with the Association "Bubamar", meaning a person with severe physical disability from Vinkovac, and I know what the late president of the association, Kristinka Matešić, has done. My wish, of course, is that all persons who are severely disabled, the more we help through institutions, means, through the law, and I believe that one institution that should be framed under the law is rightly appropriate. It means that every person with severe physical impairment has the right to a personal assistant because in this way we will make it easier for families, but also for those with severe physical damage, and we will allow them to live more normally and to fit in with other people in certain environments. Thank you very much for your activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71969	Dear Representative Zeljko Ledinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71970	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister with members, colleagues and colleagues. I'm asking the Prime Minister the question. Since I don't remember what it was like in the 19th century, and I'm just saying it's better to write because it says smartly, I'm going to read the same question. It is obvious that we have been stopped from entering the European Union quickly and that we are closer and closer to the new CEFTA or the Western Balkans free trade zone. And so far the liberalisation of the domestic market has led to a major increase in imports of agricultural food products. In the first seven months of this year alone, over a billion dollars has been imported, and it's obvious that by the end of the year it's going to be about $2 billion. When we calculate it per capita, it's some $450 per capita that we've come to a position that we're one of the countries that imports the most into Europe, and thus the world, and especially those products that we should produce with us. And these are primary agricultural products, cattle, meat, milk, dairy products, fruits, vegetables, wine. This imports are equivalent to more than 21 thousand jobs in the rural area. This situation in the HSS is extremely alarming and we are wondering whether the government will agree to lower customs duties on imports of agricultural products under the negotiations in the new CEFTA? If so, did the Government assess how much income the small and medium-sized peasant families will lose because of the liberalisation of trade within the new CEFTA and what measures agricultural policies will compensate for the loss of income in agriculture due to increased imports. And my question is, will the new CEFTA destroy the few remaining poor women in the Croatian village so that foreigners can easily buy Croatia's land? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71971	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71972	Mr. Ledinski, first of all, I think CEFTA is a completely different and quality better project for Croatia than we were proposed by the European Commission. And remember at the beginning of the year that the European Commission has even proposed a Stability and Free Trade Zone for the Western Balkans. We went out then, myself personally, with a concrete proposal to expand the existing CEFTA. Now, to the Croatian public who is interested in this issue, to remember all together when CEFTA started and who was everything in CEFTA. CEFTA started in the early '90s. We unfortunately didn't enter the CEFTA then for objective and subjective reasons, and we should have come in. All the countries that were later in CEFTA entered the European Union. And CEFTA was practically one training for the European Union, for membership in the European Union. Moreover, these countries have taken advantage of CEFTA economically. Finally, Croatia managed to enter CEFTA a few years ago and today, together with Romania and Bulgaria, was practically the only new countries to enter, and all others left CEFTA because the moment CEFTA enters the European Union it cannot be in the CEFTA. Therefore, we met in front of a dilemma. What do you do? To close the CEFTA or to expand it, to close CEFTA and accept a free Western Balkan zone that has never been considered for us. Therefore, we have proposed extending CEFTA to Southeast Europe plus Moldova, and I hope that it will also be seriously considered in the European Commission to expand to Ukraine. What does CEFTA mean? CEFTA means a free trade zone, and we with all these countries and now I see maybe, let me also have one kind of misunderstanding of the whole problem. Because we all have a bilateral free trade agreement with all these countries. Now these bilateral contracts need to be converted into a single agreement on a free trade zone in Central Europe, Central and Southeast Europe. I repeat, our proposal is to get Ukraine into this CEFTA. Now, it is up to us on the Croatian agrarian, on the Croatian Government, on the Croatian Parliament, on all those who care and want good Croatian agriculture, to be competitive but not only in agriculture but also in all other branches. Because it's a free trade zone for all branches. Now, in order for me to contribute to yours, I don't agree with Representative Matusic, so I can contribute to the culture of reading because it's about percentages, I'll read percentages. In this year, exports during the first 7 months of agricultural products, since your emphasis was on agriculture, increased by 25% compared to last year. Exports by 25% and imports by 10%. So if it's not a positive trend, then what is it? Next, we're a deficit compared to the first quarter of the year compared to the first quarter of last year, and we have data, we've reduced by 57 million US dollars, US dollars. I'm talking about agriculture. So we're talking and in March it's, and it's one important data and good data, for the first time exporting agricultural products exceeded $100 million in one month. Here, these are the data that are encouraging but the fact remains that we are still importing too much and I am open to the government, and we are trying to solve it in every way, if you have any suggestions that are welcome, how to protect our farmers from the trunks of goods and from what is being imported, and even in a way that is illegal, means at some bounds that are not controlled, some sort of godless border crossings. They have already received the assignment of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the Customs Directorate, to all of them so-called. green crossings, illegal ban crossings and physical to prevent. Therefore, we will try in every way to reduce it. But I repeat, they encourage data on exports of agricultural products from Croatia to abroad. They grew two and a half times more and grew faster this year than imports.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71973	Representative Zeljko Ledinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71974	Thank you, Mr. President! Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister, I agree with your data that you've brought about the export percentages and the rest, but you know I'm a forester by interest and I've always been interested in the cubes and not the percentages, so it's nice to hear that something 10% bigger but it would be nicer if we'd said how much in billions of dollars, millions and more. And obviously that in your answer you said everything that stands but you didn't answer my question what will happen when it comes to this new... If and how will our middle and small peasant pass. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I ask the written answer to this question.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71975	Thank you. Representative Maria Byte. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71976	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen! I'm asking Mr. Finance Minister Ivan Shuker. The situation in Požega County is extremely difficult especially for 64 employees of Požega County who have already been on strike for 15 days and almost six months have not been paid due to the blockade of accounts. Employees are on the verge of existence and in a formal legal sense they are unprotected. Mr. Minister, how do you see the possibility of a normal functioning of Požega County or if there should have been an account blockade at all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71977	Minister of Finance Mr. Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71978	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! First, let's try this issue from the political waters to the legal frameworks and frameworks of the profession. And when we look at the Executive Act of Article 204(2), then you will see that the explicits there say that the state budget, the budget of the units of local self-government, cannot be carried out on them if these funds are necessary to carry out the work in those units. So if the headship of the county had done what the Executive Law offered him until the blockade of Požega County's account would not have come. The second thing, in the finding of the State Audit, which is so misrepresented in the Croatian public, clearly states that the opinion of the State Review that the headship of the county should have made arrangements and talks with the business banks that because of one... From 480,000 kuna, there is no blockade of the county. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's two basic things. However, what was wanted to be done? They brought in employees of Požega County as hostages, showing no concern for them and their families, their existences. The same thing she tried to do with primary, secondary schools, welfare centers and hospitals. However, in order to prevent this one intention of manipulation with the fates of students and employees, the government has decided by the regulation that all the costs of primary schools, secondary schools, social care centres, hospitals are directly paid to service providers. Has there been any problem in the functioning of primary, secondary schools, social care centres and hospitals in Požega-Slavon County in the past five months? It's not. However, the intention was to block the account, that 13 million kunas of decentralised funds prescribed by law were used to pay off some loans. But another question arises. To whom it is in the interest not to apply not to block the account if the maturity of the loan is in the next 15 years, which is in the interest of charging it suddenly. The second thing, when we talk about when commitments were made and who allowed units of local self-government to issue guarantees without the government's consent, without the consent of the finance ministry. Gentlemen, look at the laws you passed in 2000 and 2001. When most of these commitments have not arrived, which are yet to be approved by Požega-Slavon County" in 2002 and 2003. And I think what's said in public is that my colleague Jurcic and I have met. We professionally agreed, problem, responsiblely claim it as a minister of finance, as a man of the profession that the problem of Požega-Slavon County if Mr. Ronko does what needs to be done can be solved in a few days, Požeko-Slavon County can function without a problem, workers will get their salary, all costs will be paid and with the creditors you have on the union websites which the director of the largest creditor of the business bank answered, so he is ready to talk and... credit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All business banks are ready to talk. And the problem of Požeko-Slavon County can be solved without any major problems and resources, and we will solve it. And what is very important for the Croatian public, in the finding of the State Audit, if it respects the institution that we have established, stands exactly what the obligations of Požega-Slavon County are. At the bottom of page 50, there are 57 million commitments, but not liabilities but liabilities. And at the same time we're talking, not us, but those who are in the interest of showing something else, they're talking about the liabilities of 270 million and they're showing it as a finding of the State Audit. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking myself a question as a man of the executive authority who gave us both in the executive and executive departments of local self-government not to present the information we received from the bodies appointed by this House of Commons. After all, this report will be found at this High House and that 57 million will appear as relevant information and we cannot invent it. Then where the 270 million came from. But when you add up pears and apples, when you have a recovery plan done to you by the people who created these problems and signed on to that recovery plan, then it's clear why it happens that way. However, the message to all residents of Požega-Slavon County, employees in Požega-Slavon County The government has a model, Mr Ronko only needs to do what his legal and constitutional powers as mayor and Požeko-Slavon County can fully function. As for the obligation, three guarantees for three primary schools are not yet used and the normal thing is that in the future, how my colleague Primorac has a basic school development programme and the development of a one-way course that the Ministry of Education will help Požega-Slavon County finance these three projects where the money has not yet been spent. I repeat, the money for the Platter, the money for the... Not spent and money for the primary school in Jaksic has been spent, but I say, with a little help from the ministry over the next few years, it can be solved without a problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But that problem, too. the profession needs to be solved, not politics. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71979	Thank you very much. Representative Maria Byte. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71980	It is acceptable to me that any solution that goes in terms of the functioning of Požega-Slavon County and the difficult state of employees, but if this agony continues, Požeko-Slavon County will be left without professionally trained staff, which will also prove very bad in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71981	Dear Representative Miroslav Rosic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71982	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Because of the long answers I'm going to ask a short question. Mr. Prime Minister, you have explained this problem to Mr. Shucker, but please explain it to us once again, and the question is which law and why does Croatian Radio Television not pay VAT in this country?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71983	Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71984	So where did you get that I explained to Minister Shuker? ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That I explained it to him. Minister Shuker doesn't need to be explained. He knows his job very well. The issue of the VAT of Croatian Radio and Television, I think, should be considered in the Croatian Parliament, not in the Croatian Government. So if you think one such initiative should be encouraged, I don't mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71985	Representative Miroslav Rosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71986	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister, for the short answer. So Mr. Minister had made an account to HTV, and then after that it was withdrawn, so I logically concluded that you explained it to him. But in any case thank you very much for your answer and be sure we will encourage this issue because there is really no need for Croatian radio-television to be a state in the country, not to pay VAT on its total business regardless of the subscription story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71987	Dear Representative Petar Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71988	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen of the vice presidents, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to refer my question to the Minister of Justice, Mrs. Ani Lovrin. It refers to a reduction in the number of executives. What is the Ministry of Justice doing to reduce the number of executive cases? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71989	Minister Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71990	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Mr. Representative. As part of judicial reform, judicial system reforms pay particular attention to reducing the number of delays in executive cases. The Ministry of Justice in October 2005 brought a project to reduce the number of cases, executive cases, and here I can say that the project has now produced extraordinary results after 9 months of application. The Ministry of Justice, after recording the deficits in the performance, equipped the courts with information equipment, introduced overtime, hired a sufficient number of perpetrators for a period of time, and after 9 months of application, we also note to the municipal courts that the lags were reduced by 50% especially in the Municipal Court in Zagreb where the number of lags actually concerned 50% of the total number of lags. In the municipal court in Zagreb, the number of these delays was reduced by 60%. By continuing these measures and at such a pace, I expect that by the second half of next year, the number of delays will be reduced to zero, and in the executives, full awareness will be given. In particular, I would say that in commercial cases, the number of delays in the performance was reduced by 80% compared to the previous year. What is more important to say is that the amendments to the 2005 Executive Act, which carried out on the basis of credible documents, have been transferred to public notebooks despite initial speculation that these cases will be returned to the courts again, and since January of 135 thousand cases, only 4 thousand have returned to the courts after appeal, which has freed a large number of judges to be able to commit themselves to solving more complex court cases, which will also contribute to a reduction in the number of delays in the entire judicial system. I repeat at this rate next year we will probably solve the number of deficits in the executives and the application of the Executive Law novel has produced excellent results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71991	Thank you. Representative Petar Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71992	I would like to thank Mrs. Secretary. I am very pleased and thank you for your cooperation and for updating some of the items I raised on behalf of Vukovar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71993	Thank you. Representative respected Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71994	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President of the Croatian Government and members of the Government. I will refer my question to Mr. Minister Dragan Primorac, Minister of Science, Education and Sports. Well, the beginning of the school year, Mr. Secretary, has introduced many changes to schools. After a year of Knos project in 49 elementary schools this year, all primary schools are working on a new programme, which is well accepted. But unfortunately, the beginning of the school year did not go without some inappropriate events that were related to the appearance of the picture "Red Bear" which in Sisak instead of the joy of starting the school year and the positive atmosphere caused the bitterness and anger of parents, students of the first and educational staff, who highly positioned SDP member, the City Committee president, with his reckless activities. Mr. Minister, in order to protect schools, I ask you school children from these events what measures are he thinking of introducing the Ministry in order to prevent the politicization of schools and school children?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71995	Minister Dragan Primorac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71996	Mr. President, honourable MPs, fellow MPs answer your question under the new law. The school's work is entirely in the headmaster's office. The principal corresponds to the school board and the school board on the other hand has control of its work in local self-government units. What was the ministry's intensity all these years is to give autonomy as long as it takes and university to give autonomy and creativity and schools in one hand, which should not be under some strict surveillance because it is one of the key problems that has been plagued by Croatian teachers all these years. But it's a question and responsibility. No materials can be entered into schools that are political programmes, nor can they be entered against people, against persons, those who talk about national impatience, homophobic, any other programmes. They don't belong in schools, they don't need them. The director in his department has the full implementation and supervision of any program or material that needs to be entered into school. The director, if he does not act in accordance with the law, which is established by the school board, has mechanisms and can act without a minister and the minister is not really necessary in that story. But what's important to say is that no matter what policy it was, the place of politics in schools is definitely not, it's the place for students to attend school, not to learn political procedures or any political manipulations. In concrete cases, I can say that the school board has responded very well, and thank God I can do what I can as a minister, the educational inspection will always come out on the ground when such a specific case is shown and the ministry has the authority to just react if the law or the provisions of the law is violated. It is evident from this that it is in fact complete ingenuity at school leadership and on the principal who must in any case bear responsibility but also praise for what he does well and responsibility for what he does wrong. And I hope that actually those people who are responsible, and about politics, that they will simply bypass schools. You have materials that you can share outside the school, in a number of other activities, I repeat, no matter what political option it was, it's simply not acceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71997	Representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71998	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Why did I ask this question? It is also unfortunately our colleague who is chairman of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. So, at the time that such persons come to school and you have a whole series of attempts and coercions on the principals, on educational staff to share any material, I hope that the ministry will determine all such actions with its own inspections and hopefully remove them from just inspection findings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u71999	Thank you. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72000	It's a question for the Prime Minister. Croatian Prime Minister, Croatia is tired of lying, Croatia is tired of corrupt thugs who cheat and rob it unhindered, Croatia is tired of those who protect these bastards. In recent months, Croatia has been shaking the "Brodosplit" affair and the missing $6 million. How many times in the House I asked about you, you replied as you replied. You would have said that you contributed to further confusion on the Croatian political scene and in public. I don't want to talk about the tone of your answer, let the public judge it, and they'll judge and judge it. I'm still asking you, given your answers you've given me. One, not really the last answer, let's start with him. You said on June 27th this year that according to your information, these contracts are not harmful. The same day I received 15 minutes before the beginning of the session here on the government's bench reply, I signed your deputy, Kosor, which says that I quote: "... the questionable six million dollars cannot possibly be considered missing." I refer to this written response from the government and I ask you, if the government thinks that six million dollars in no way can be considered missing, I ask you, does the government know where those six million dollars are if they haven't disappeared by now?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72001	Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72002	Mr. Jurjevic, for the third time in your current class, you are asking the Government, the Prime Minister and the Executive Authority something that you should ask the relevant institutions of this country. Because neither the government can know where it is possible, those six million dollars of yours, nor can the Prime Minister know it, nor can the Deputy Prime Minister know it. I really, want to reduce your tensions, not to mention anyone in your family, I want to contribute to a normal debate, and I want to say something, that it's a crime, that you'll agree with me to wait for the results of the investigation, not to judge in advance, that there is no political omen. So don't ask me and them, and I'd be very glad if the two of us were to condemn it together if it turned out in the investigation that there were crimes, that there were dishonest acts, that there were some violations of the law, that we would condemn it together, rather than calling the government for something to be done by the State's attorney and the relevant institutions, and not just in this case, but in any case. We're also hearing today that there's been an investigation against the former Brodosplit administration. It is therefore in our interest to save Croatia's shipbuilding, to save Split's square, which is especially for you and me at heart, but also for all other traffickers in Croatia because the shipbuilding was and is and must remain one of our strongest industrial branches. So let the investigation be completed. We cannot give any qualifications in particular no convictions and convictions from the constituencies or from the bench of the executive authority. We have defined ourselves as the trio of power and we must not touch ourselves in the judicial power and in the investigative authorities. So I'm asking and I gave an interview a few days ago and I initiated a meeting and a state summit where we asked for all investigations or expectations, we can't ask because it's about independent institutions, that all investigations are done as soon as possible on this current case, on previous cases and "Brodospleta" and all other shipyards, because we have an extremely important branch that has to stay that way. So again, I reject your insinuations to the government. You have proven that you are not prepared to accept the rules of a democratic state in which there is a rule of law. The rule of law means waiting for the course and process of the investigation, the result of the investigation, and then neither you nor I will judge it, but it will be done by a judicial authority that is independent of both the Parliament and the Government and that is why I stand up for it, and I will always be against you to bring judgment and therefore I have mentioned a very beautiful person from your family.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72003	Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72004	Well, Mr. Prime Minister, this, sir, you take it conditionally. Mr. Prime Minister, I'm telling you, this, sir, is now conditional and you're covering up the truth, and you're covering it up today, and you're insulting it, so that's your final range. And that the government has done nothing, Marin Jurjevic said, but the European Commission on the first page of the report and you are obliged as prime minister to work to expose corruption in Croatia and not to cover it up. I won't mention your family again because I'm a decent man unlike you. And learn how to behave at the Croatian Assembly in a decent manner. I am the representative chosen by the people, and you answer. You answer to this House because we choose you. Learn the alphabet of democracy. Mr. Prime Minister from day one... The extent of that democracy that your party colleagues exclude you from me. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr. Prime Minister, you are expected to be at the level of the institution and of the functions you conduct, and try to overcome your home education somehow, to protect your function.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72005	Dear Representative Zgrebec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72006	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm referring the question to the Prime Minister. A short time ago, you presented very optimistic data on the economic movement in the Republic of Croatia, but according to knowledge from professional circles, the State Statistics Institute has calculated the growth of gross social product for the first term of 2006, but the data for you and the Government has been defeated. In fact, the growth of the social gross product is modest 3.5%, industrial production is 3%, inflation continues to move at around 4%, the trend of the trade deficit is even more negative than it was in 2005. Tom, such a trend when it was recording over $9 billion, such a trend is also followed by an external debt. With high inflation, wages are stagnating, and pensions are actually falling. I'm asking you if these data from the State Statistics Institute are the reason for their non-publishment because even so, the State Statistics Office would become the owner of bad news for our very optimistic Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72007	The Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72008	I really don't know where you get this data, because I think we can only draw data from those institutions that are relevant to macroeconomic indicators, statistics, etc. We can make up whatever we want, we can judge ahead, we can judge, but I call on the rule of law, I call for the end of the investigation, and here I call for statistics, because we can be political rivals, but we have to respect what's true. The latest, and today will be published, an hour later a conference on the Contact Council on Competitiveness of Croatia was called to transfer information from headquarters of the World Economic Forum in Geneva, in which the Global Competitiveness Report for 2006-2007, the Republic of Croatia took a 13-seat leap and took 51st place, will be announced within one hour. Best of all, between the countries of Southeast Europe and last year, Bulgaria, but also China and Russia, as well as the World Economic Forum data from Geneva, passed. So when you're talking about some data that aren't accurate allegedly, I'm going to tell you only one that's most important to us, and that's that compared to last year we've reduced unemployment by 20,000 people, that's 20,000 new jobs that have been reduced compared to last year. If we weren't satisfied with the growth rate of the GDP, so of course we weren't, I'd be happy if it could be 7%, 8%, but we're working on it, and I'm sure in the coming years this growth of the gross domestic product will be bigger than today.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72009	Representative Dragica Zgrebec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72010	Speaking of who is relevant to provide certain data, it is certainly the most relevant State Statistics Service, the only institution that can provide relevant data for the Republic of Croatia. As for the number of unemployed, it should also be measured by the number of employees who are falling. However, the question arises why and three months after the end of the period the State Statistics Office shall not publish the data that has been calculated. We certainly know that it is calculated and is 3.5%. It is less than it was achieved last year and far less than it was in 2002 and 2003. Your efficient economic policy has led to the decline of social product growth in these three years losing at least 7 billion kuna of social gross product.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72011	Dear Representative Željka Antunović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72012	I'm asking the Prime Minister the question. PIC workers from Obuzen for 40 years created a large company. They turned the swamp and the sea into 4 thousand acres of fertile land. In the period from 1992 to 94, some others, known long ago, have transformed PIC "Neretva" into a way that property, meaning land, water, hydromerial and energy facilities, has been attracted by the state, and workers remain unemployed and poor. The land with permanent plantations of fruits, vineyards and olive trees, with the blessing of the then government, was divided in 96 with no criteria, so that the land other than the necessary defenders had access to various well-occupied municipal chiefs and others whose existence was not compromised, and workers had once again lost not only property, but without work and then without pay. PIC Neretva ended up in bankruptcy. In January 2005, last year, workers who had been denied the right to severance were sent to the government and to you personally Mr. President a request for the state's denial of bankruptcy claims for the benefit of workers' severances. An identical request was sent to the government and the bankruptcy manager. You have not responded positively to this fair request from the worker to this day. Answer today, I ask you, Mr. President, why did you not allow the former employees of the PIC of Neretva until today to pay off recognised severances and will you change your views after this asked question?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72013	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72014	Mrs. Antunović, I'm not familiar with the details of this case, so please give me all the information you have. But I'll tell you, if that's the case and if there's a letter I don't know about, then we'll question it, and we'll definitely, as in any other case, settle for the benefit of the workers. But if what happened in '92 happened, then '95. Now that you've quoted, then my logical question: why do you mention 2005, did we sleep through 2000 to 2004? Why didn't you fix it? But I'm ready, if that's what you say we look at it together and make it right.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72015	Representative Željka Antunović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72016	As usual, Mr. President, I am not satisfied with your response. Namely, after a year and a half of consecutive repeated requests to you personally, you are not yet referred, but you are therefore very well directed to confirm today and, without any restrictions, accuse, for example, Commissioner Mljet of illegally selling the land and ignoring the judicial verdict. You're very well-versed, you've been calling out an innocent man for ten days, and unfortunately you're not being referred to the official repeat... sent to you personally and to the Croatian Government. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] That's why Mr. President you seem inconclusive, and I'm still going to give you all this information one more time, and I expect from you, not much to hope for, except when it comes to demagogy, a positive solution for these workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72017	Dear Representative Dragutin Pukleš, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72018	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to refer the question to the Prime Minister, Mr. Eve Sanader. Dear Mr. President of the Republic of Croatia, please tell us when the task force established on 27 March 2006 will be effective, and this will be the Group for the Reimbursement of Family Pensions and Highest Pensions Users and the Working Group for the Elimination of Disability in the Pension System, which has been created by the introduction of a new way of establishing a pension base since 1.1.1999, and more commonly known as "The Problems of New Retired People".
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72019	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72020	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I've already said in the previous question once that we're going to solve the problem of new pensioners. We got caught up in it when nobody expected it or hoped it, many pensioners said, and it won't be any of it, I'm talking about paying back the debt to the pensioners. We have shown that we think of our pensioners, that these are the honorable people who deserve their retirement status working for their families, working in their homeland. Therefore, we will solve this problem, but in accordance with the government's material capabilities. I announced at a rally that we would solve this issue in 2007. We in the government have a working group that prepares for this joint material of ours and make sure that during 2007, we find a legal solution in which, but that means a new pension reform. We need to be aware that it's not just a simple procedure, but that it's a new pension reform, like it was from '99. What happened then is that these new pensioners are in a worse position than the old pensioners. Therefore, it is a comprehensive procedure, and we cannot move the feathers, one meeting to solve the problem of new pensioners. It is, I repeat, a new pension reform, which is a major procedure for all of Croatia, and that is why I called for a little sooner and respected representative if anyone wants to contribute, therefore leaving politics aside, for the real need to help these new pensioners, but in line with the state's capabilities. So in 2007, we want to, we have plenty of time to do this new reform, which, without it, won't go and solve the problem of new pensioners. I can't promise easy solutions. I think it would be irresponsible, I think it would be demagogue as Mrs Antunovic said earlier, so we do not promise easy solutions. We promise what we can accomplish. Therefore, when we faced a debt of retirement, with which no government before us could and ran away from it, we knew it would be difficult but we solved it and today I say that the pensioners will get their debt both in December and two more wars next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72021	Dear Representative Drago Pukleš, please. Dear Representative Damir Cain, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72022	Your Honor, Mr. Letica, first of all, I want to fence myself from an inappropriate structure that we heard during the morning. But to come to the question, I want to ask him either Prime Minister or Minister of Economy, Mr. Vukelic. I think we can all agree that at this point more problems than Croatian shipbuilding, I don't know, there is no one else, perhaps Croatian ironworks. You need to save each other clearly, how much it costs to cost. And thank God the Pula Oilman isn't in trouble right now. Apparently, at the end of the week, the Competition Protection Council approved state aid of as much as 4.2 billion kuna for Brodosplit billion and 700,3. May cca billion and 700, BrodoTrogir 624, Queen 220 million kuna. That's a lot of money, there's no other solution. And there won't be any last aid, no matter what they say, after six months, it won't come again. However, I am concerned about Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, Vlado, why, I think of the Government rather than the President of the Parliament, why the Government is asking that the only successful Croatian shipyard be privatised by Pula Uljanik, or what kind of restructuring plan it is by HVB Global Shipping, which offers even a lock, a key in the lock for the Queen, or BrodoTrogir. I understand the problem. So far, the state has given almost $3 billion of state guarantees to shipbuilding. The government's cost of credit assistance since '92. By 2006, it was nearly nine billion kuna. Finally, Croatia's trade capital shipbuilding records a loss of over $150m. Their income is only $750 million a year, so to get to a positive zero, they should increase production by 45%. Finally, in 4 years, even a billion kuna lost, I'm talking about the one in Split. But I'm particularly interested in whether to put the key in the lock after six or seven months of the Queen and... Or the others. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I.e., why do you want to privatise "Uljanik", and on the other hand, the whole consulting "HVB global shipping" prefers a tough Split at the expense of Pula and Rijeka.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72023	Economy Minister Branko Vukelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72024	Thank you, Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Parliamentary Representative, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I'm going to say, there's no preference on either side of either one, according to one shipyard over the other. And I'm going to remind you of the attitude I've often pointed out, that's the attitude and my ministry... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72025	Turn yourself on, turn yourself on.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72026	...that all shipyards, therefore, are equally important to us. The project and the restructuring program that started practically with the proposal from the shipyards themselves, which was built in the context of Croatian shipbuilding as a roof house and within the framework of, clearly, the ministries and such working material were forwarded and the consultants of the ones you spoke of were working on. So, driven by the assumption, try to keep all shipyards in Croatia, but in a way that we can restructure them so that they can be positive, to do business positively, so as not to create losses. Therefore, it is equal to everyone's relationship. We thank God we have a situation that "Olinik" is the only shipyard that has passed its rehabilitation in the 1990s, which operates without loss and as such has entered the program and privatisation of our shipyards as the first shipyard possible for this privatisation. But the working group at the head is also the Vice-President, Mr Polancec, who should also prepare the draft laws to amend the Privatisation Act. Resolve the problems of maritime goods, which is in the case of the Oilies, so the previous job that needs to be done is to make arrangements and trade unions go into the privatisation model and that shipyard as other stages and others at, I would say, the satisfaction of all parties, and not to the harm of anyone. This information that went public, that's exactly what I'm saying, is incorrect. So, that information about the eventual closure of the Queen and the Brodotrogira does not stand, nor does anyone at any meeting and working group preparing the programme discuss the option. Therefore, the consultant who worked the materials worked different options, processed the proposals, but no story of closing the shipyard of any one has ever been mentioned. You mentioned here the shipyard in Split as one of the largest and truly biggest shipyards in Croatia, about the losses they create. I just have to say because it's something that you mentioned, today a medium has made it public about how the minister talks about business without loss, and the loss... One billion kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Only the audit reports that clearly speak, therefore, further for that shipbuilding site a billion and 600 thousand kuna past the government gave in 2002 to resuscitate the situation. If that shipyard with this former administration had managed to create billions and 600 million losses again in late 2004. That in 2005, that loss was a new 200 million. It's now a billion 800. That the financial report for the first half of this year is no loss. They're facts and they're results. And what you want to do and what must be done is to ensure guarantees and this is what you mention, too, the Agency has approved, for all shipyards, that during the construction of the restructuring programme, there are no crisis situations, labour suspensions, inability to operate. Because if we want to save the shipyards, they have to have enough resources to function normally until the restructuring programme is finally adopted. Therefore, these amounts you mentioned, which also came through the Agency's approval, are therefore the need for new jobs, new ships of all shipyards and liquid assets. And for the liquidity of their insurance, that's not the amount that will go towards the government, one that will propose the Ministry of Economy. We only want to give the amount of funds that will allow normal business until the final restructuring programme is adopted. The attitude towards all shipyards is equal and we particularly appreciate what you mentioned as the only shipyard which has, therefore, completed the restructuring project and which is actually the most ready for the next step, and above all, there is a step of privatisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72027	Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72028	Yes, and satisfied and dissatisfied. Finally, for this one, the Rijeka or Split region would mean the closure of "Kraljevica" and "Brodotrogiar" immigration, these manufacturing motors from Rijeka to Split, from Pula to Split, in bankruptcy of "Vicora Lenca" even though this company can be saved, I simply don't want to think about it. It just can't happen. Croatian shipbuilding must not stop. As it must not happen to privatise the Oil because this company today, gentlemen, is not in trouble, and tomorrow it could be in huge trouble due to privatisation. And finally, at least let some state-owned company keep some kind of influence and control package.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72029	Dear Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72030	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I refer my question to the Prime Minister. The SDP club has been seeking answers from the government for a long time, which is why the economy's growing liquidity is increasing. And we point out that, we believe that one of the biggest causes is the non-payment of the users of the state budget. And we point out that in health care there are occasional non-payments for over 400 days. In Croatian railways and 300 days. We also point out that non-payments by builders are a few months. We also pointed out that incentives for new employees do not pay off for a year. And now we have the latest ones. It is not paid bills in shipbuilding and even the deadlines for paying regular salaries of workers are even moved. The main reason for new liquidity, new problems, especially the problems that will arise for which a month is also the undeveloped restructuring plans of the shipyard. I ask a very clear Mr. Prime Minister, given that the third year of the Government is due to the fact that it has not developed a shipbuilding restructuring programme, and who is responsible for deepening the liquidity problem as well?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72031	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72032	Mr. Representative, first of all, it's not exactly what you said. You have already made several claims on behalf of the SDP Club that you have not proved or argued with anything. You have never once brought any concrete examples and I ask you if you have them to deliver them to me because it is simply not true what you have stated. It's just not exactly what you said. It's unfortunately a public deception. That's what's right with the truth. Therefore, I assure you that everything is going according to plan and the restructuring of shipbuilding will be over because, as you will know, we also included European experts in the restructuring of shipbuilding because we do not want to restructure shipbuilding against European practice, we are going towards the European Union and we really should have finished a few months ago but I can say that we did not want to rush to it. Therefore, we wanted to do a restructuring of shipbuilding that will not be worth it and only be valid for a year, only for two years, but that will apply for the next ten years and in which we will really restructure shipbuilding, make it competitive on the world market without vertical state subsidies. You know as well as I do that this is what we must do, that this is what all European countries have done from Poland which has had a very painful restructuring of shipbuilding to other countries. So that's what we're working on. It will be almost next week, and we will introduce you and the Croatian public to the plan to restructure the shipbuilding and the one about the liquidity is simply not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72033	Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72034	All the information I have provided can be found in the reports of the Chamber of Commerce on economic movements, you can check if you check the books of the Croatian Railways, Croatian highways, Croatian roads and do not list all others. You can just look in the paper at the fact that failure to pay shipbuilding workers is also real and true. But your right not to want to see the data where and how the Croatian economy works is really your right. But we must also point out that your response is unacceptable to the responsibility of the persons and persons and the ministry for not developing the restructuring programme, so I would ask you to provide me with really written answers so that we can have a message to the shipbuilding workers because the next year is an election year, restructuring of the shipbuilding in the following year surely the Croatian Government will not start under your leadership because it is not acceptable to cut in the shipbuilding to go to 2007. This is very clearly political, and that means that workers will have pay problems and that is why I am very interested in your written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72035	Dear representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72036	Well, here are some who write questions, some doctors. Since they wrote me a question, I'm going to have to read it. It is clear that you gave the Prime Minister a warrant for the administration of the Rabbit, since it is known that the police filed criminal charges against him several months ago, but that application was heated for months in the drawer. I wonder if, at least now, when a very unpleasant report on the inefficient fight against corruption came from Brussels, you have given the order that in the context of the examination and suspicion of your possible abuse of the situation, because of the time-published transcripts from the closed session of the Government that you chaired, it is obvious that, despite the warnings of Minister Dropulić, you have asked that Stone Ingrad be forgiven the debt of 36 million kuna that belongs not to you but to the taxpayers. I also want to know why when it is clear to everyone that Vlado Zec, until just over half a year ago, was the mayor of your Mayor Bagarić, Mr Bagarić, at least for the time being, has been completely amnested to participate in the unremembered theft in that county that led to her bankruptcy and is being witnessed and found by state audits. Are you afraid, Mr. Prime Minister, that perhaps Mr. Bagaric could speak?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72037	Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72038	Madam MPs, for the sake of authority of the Prime Minister, I should not answer you and protect the institution of the Prime Minister should not answer you to these shameless insinuations that you said above all that I gave the order to arrest anyone. As you know, it could have been at the time of your former communist government, in democratic Croatia it is not possible. That's not possible. And I ask the High House to protect the institution of the Prime Minister against the insinuation of a representative who said the Prime Minister gave the order to arrest Vlado Rabbit. That's what I'm asking the High House. That's one thing. Secondly, we did not forgive the Stone of Ingrad. In 2002, you forgave your government under the leadership of the Prime Minister 35 million kuna, number one. Number two, we haven't forgiven anything, but we've recognised 20 other costs that have never been recognised and so reduced by debt in agreement with the State's Attorney's Office. We didn't do that job, that job was done by the State's Attorney's Office. So, Prime Minister Ivo Sanader's government has not forgiven the debt of Stone Ingrad, Prime Minister Ivica Racan's government has forgiven 35 million and we have for all quarryes, not for the Stone Ingrad, but for twenty others in Croatia, for all included expenses that were not included in the agreement of the State's Attorney's Office until then. And that's full of truth and I pray you stick to that truth, not that for political reasons and for nearing elections as Mr. Linic said earlier we are not interested in it. We're working on the welfare of Croatian citizens and we're not thinking about elections like you. And you can think as much as you want to go through again.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72039	Representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72040	Well, I have to admit I'm sorry to have a prime minister who's not telling the truth. Namely, Mr. Sanader, I am in possession of a record from a closed cabinet session in which he writes very neatly about how you have just insisted on making a deal with Stone Ingrad and you have forgiven 36 million kuna taxpayers' money. So it's a fact and it's no lie and it's not my insinuation. Being hard on you is really not my problem. And in the end... Well, it's a record published in the Croatian public that makes it... [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] I think in the sixteen years of the democratic state that the secret services searched here in the Secretary's Parliament and in the Government, who gave such a single report to the Croatian public. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] So much for how much that record testified about something that wasn't a moral tax. And when it comes to caring for workers, Mr. Sanader thanks to the government's moves of the Rabbit, many workers are today perhaps ahead of being left without their own houses.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72041	Thank you. We'll continue at 12:30. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing to hold a session and ask the government a question in "the current morning". Dear representative Carmela Caparin, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72043	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. I would like to refer my question to Madam Minister Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic, so to the foreign and European integration ministers. Last week, Croatia was elected to the board of governors of the agency, the International Atomic Energy Agency. I ask you to tell us something about this agency and at all about the work between the Croatian Republic and that agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72044	Minister Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72045	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament. Dear Madam MPs, the International Atomic Energy Agency is a central international body, an intergovernmental body to monitor the peaceful use of nuclear energy. Otherwise, the agency and its chief director, El Baraday, were awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 2005. The Agency is independent, but has a special one, in special contracts with the United Nations by submitting a report to the Security Council and the General Assembly. Otherwise, there are 143 members, and Croatia was first elected last week to the Board of Governors, which makes up 35 members and is the central governing body of the agency for a two-year period, for a two-year term. The Agency shall primarily deal with 3 areas of action. The first is insurance, an increase in the safety of nuclear material and plant. The second is the use of radiation for medical, scientific purposes in agriculture, destabilising, environmental protection and the like. The third is supervision and verification that nuclear plants and nuclear energy would not be misused for the production of nuclear weapons or control and verification of the implementation of the Non-proliferation Treaty. Croatia has been a member of that agency since 1993 and has been extremely working very well with the agency and I must say that we have been extremely skilled so far and that we have made extremely good use of any technical assistance from the agency that is used in the construction of a nuclear science laboratory for medical purposes, in the exploration of groundwater, in the protection of cultural heritage and the like. In addition, however, Croatia is also also a provider of expertise, and this cooperation with the Agency is very, very active. The Agency is also increasingly profiled in the field of international policy, since it is in control certainly when it comes to the development of nuclear programmes for peace-making purposes, so it is particularly insisted, for example Iran is called for to respect Security Council Resolution 1696 and also closely monitor nuclear programmes and some other countries. With membership in this Agency Croatia will certainly contribute to strengthening its role in the international plan. By strengthening the role of the multilateral plan and by becoming a member of the Peace Building Commission this year, I believe it is certain and will also make a major contribution to our lobbying for Croatia's membership in the Security Council in 2008, 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72046	Thank you very much. Thank you. The Croatian public has really not known the work of this Agency so far. Cooperation is also important in solving nuclear waste, and what I think is also very important is that we will be able to get some help in solving Croatian projects based on technology programmes or, in particular, on medical programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72047	Honorable representative of Jure Bitunac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72048	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. I speak to Minister, Mr Bozidar Kalmeti, Minister of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development. The state road Drniš-Muć-Sinj D-56 in the area of Sutine in the length of the 3km circus has not been arranged yet. From the Croatian roads, I can say that for many years, promises have come with reconstruction or the arrangement of that part of the road, but to this day nothing has been done, nothing has been done on that part. My question, Mr. Minister, is when will Croatia's roads finally take care of the state roads D-56 on that part so that the traffic connection between the settlements that rely on the road itself is appropriate?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72049	Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72050	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Representative, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here is the fact that this road is on the Muć-Sinj-Bijela road and is categorized as a state road, there are such roads in Croatia about 100 kilometers, so there are not many, but there are. And the arrangement of all these roads is covered by one special programme of road arrangements, state roads if they are not paved, and there are 100 kilometers I said, as part of the programme of construction and maintenance of public roads fifth, eighth. When it comes to this stock between Muč and Sinj at Sutivan, which is about three kilometers long, I can tell you that, at this point, it is a project documentation. As soon as the project documentation is completed, it will also move towards the realisation of the road and expect that the beginning of the realisation and completion will be the following year, so 2007.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72051	Honorable representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72052	Thank you for your response. I'm personally pleased, but I hope people living in those areas, in that part of the Dalmatian Zagora. And what is important for us, for all units of local self-government in the Dalmatian Zagor area, is not only good and quality association with county centres and highways, but also good interconnection because it has its own economic and social aspect. Thank you very much, and I congratulate you that the inhabitants of this area will finally get one quality ticket. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72053	Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72054	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, have you given the order, since you like to do so, that the competent authorities are finally now that Brussels presses them, when the European Commission expert team literally states in its report, that Croatia has done nothing to combat political corruption, examine cases of HDZ purchases of councilors in Sisak, Podravska Slatina, of course in Split, and above all in Karlovac where Minister Vukelić has made an introduction to Croatian corruption theory and practice, when he concluded the first written trade contract in the purchase of council members, if you did not, why you did not give orders there. That is, to be very specific, what is being done specifically in terms of curbing political corruption, so on the point of hitting the head, and not just cutting off here and there, which tentacles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72055	Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72056	Madam MPs, first and foremost, we all in Croatia, all political parties must do so in their own party that such phenomena do not occur. You've listed some of the cases that I'm hearing here from the ranks, here's a representative from Sisak, that it's simply not exactly what you're saying. Therefore, it would be nice for us here in the Croatian Parliament to leave the political struggle when it is time for the election campaign. Let's not bother the Croatian public with constant bickering, bickering, accusing each other, let's fight these cases together. Well, you'll know for sure, you were a minister in the last government that in one party, I won't tell which one of your coalitions a city councilman in the city of Zagreb, publicly said he had to pay to be a councilman. It's sad, if that's the case, it's a sad situation. I'm asking you what did you do when you heard about the case? But I'm withdrawing that question at the same time because I want us to fight all such phenomena together because it has no political omens, it has nothing to do with SDP, it has nothing to do with HDZ, it has nothing to do with HNS, HSS, HSP, or it doesn't miss any other party, with IDS. It has to do with political culture. Let's make everyone in Croatia on their own plan and not blame each other. Well someone here said this morning, Croatia is tired of these accusations and nothing is happening. We solve things and this government has the determination to deal with all the difficult problems of Croatian society and solve them for the benefit of Croatian citizens. I invite you to stay out of politics and help us with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72057	Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72058	Your Honor, Mr. President, you are in power. You're the most responsible on these issues that are not just about culture, but issues are about curbing the most dangerous type of crime. And we can't fight corruption, the so-called. street unless hit by political corruption. And you haven't said a single word about it, you're asking me a question, and you're the Prime Minister. In fact, that's what you said. Unfortunately, as we can see, the bodies of persecution are expressive in certain cases. For example, it is commendable that only a few weeks ago it was necessary for the Rijeka police to report to a doctor for taking bribes. In Osijek, there has been some detention for a doctor who has received bribes for slightly less than 2 thousand kunas, but why, when it comes to political corruption, the processing is conducted, if at all they are not, they last for a long and long time. In fact, with this, you send an unmistakable message to the citizens. Citizens, people, don't deal with corruption. The state doesn't like competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72059	Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72060	Thank you, Mr. President. My question was to the Prime Minister, Mr. Ivy Sanader. Corruption is obviously a top issue in public these days, in newspapers, on television, here in the Parliament, everyone's just talking about corruption with a big, little "K". The police are arresting, the state's attorney is chasing those who have been captured and the Flagrants. It is commendable that corruption is no longer a taboo topic, that it is discussed in Croatia because it is something that has been pressing us for decades and a few decades before. These merits primarily include our media that should be commended for public open reporting on everyone, without fences, but also the international community that is pressing us. About that, it's also clear, we all know that very well. Yet I am convinced that corruption will not come to the head or the police or the state's attorney's office. By definition, they deal with individual cases, affairs, when someone gets caught in the act. The key is that evil should be prevented, so it won't be up to everyone to blame, and it won't be the whole public for weeks to ask what it means that one week the word "Piva" will not be sold, another week being sold, which was in Verona, as you went to Verona, on an official plane, paying your own hotel bills and so on. This whole thing is really unnecessary. My question concerns the functioning of the tax administration, because I am convinced that it is this organ, the instrument that can most effectively step on corruption. Everywhere in the world, money can be made on black. In regulated countries, the problem is to spend it on black. If you buy a car that's out of your reach in the morning, the tax collector comes in this afternoon asking you, sir, where did you get the money for it? There the criminals, the great criminals, are more afraid of the tax collector than the police. My question is, what are you going to do to Mr. Prime Minister in a normative and organisational sense that the tax administration as one of its basic tasks is to determine that some value of the property has grown significantly above paying taxes in the past, some kind of period, and not that the tax administration is mainly concerned with the records of what the honest citizens paid, because they know they have to pay taxes?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72061	Thank you. Answer, Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72062	Well, Mr. Representative, first of all, it is necessary to say that the Ministry of Finance's tax administration has increased tax revenues by about 12-15% in the past 3 years of this government every year. That's a fact. Now, what does a 12-15% tax revenue increase mean? That means we've caught those who don't pay the taxes you're talking about. To fight the gray economy which is the evil of the modern world and also in Croatia. Who, according to Croatian trade union estimates, employs about 400,000 workers in Croatia. They're union estimates. So we did this, that we made the tax administration more efficient, which year after year increases tax revenues. That's one thing. Secondly, there is a law on the right to confiscate property acquired by the criminal acts we have brought. Therefore, in combination with the tax administration, customs and all other relevant institutions in Croatia, this law should be respected, and be assured that this government will insist even more strongly on the full and transparent process and tax returns and everything else that goes with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72063	Representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72064	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Unfortunately, I must conclude that I have not heard of any example of the great tax fraud that has been sanctioned. This increase in income is obviously collected at a tiny storm. Otherwise, as it would be possible for someone in that black system to be a regular referencer, today is co-financed by a company with 22m euros, and all the time in free Croatia was a civil servant or official. How is it possible that someone who was in that black system was a doctor today is one of the people with the largest expensive properties in Croatia and abroad. How is it possible that people who are on welfare, and we know everybody like that, are driving Porsches? I'm afraid that in the great examples of this kind of fraud has not even tried to get in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72065	Dear Representative Jagoda Maja Martincevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72066	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers, colleagues and colleagues. My question is for the minister of culture, master of God Bishop. Just at this time when we presented to the world the sensation of the apoxiom and I think it is one of the biggest and most significant findings in Croatia, in the media the initiative of the County of Primorje-Gorski Kotar County raises the question of its permanent accommodation. Mayor Zlatko Komadin calls for decisions from the time of the term of office of former Culture Minister Mr Vujic, so I ask you nicely to explain to the public what has actually been decided then, what are these decisions and who will decide on the final accommodation of that statue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72067	Minister Bozo Bishop, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72068	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam MPs, apoxiomic or as experts called it a Croatian apoxiomic because it was found in a Croatian aquarium near Losinj near the island of Orjula, indeed one of those world monuments of culture can be found in each and should be found in every anthology of the world sculpture because it is very important and significant, it is more than 2,000 years old. We have already tried several times through the media and television and newspapers to explain our position when it comes to this monument. I also have a lot of understanding for the citizens of Losinj and the mayor who was at my place for the interview, to fight to place such a monument of course on Losinj because it is also found and such a tendency is actually somewhere in the world and there is a possibility that more monuments are taken to the centers than they are located if there is such a possibility, of course, in those places where they were found, or near those places because this is about a finding that was actually found in the sea. And that problem that comes along all the time, I say it's constantly going through the press, and the fact is that I could have done it in my first term that I thought it was right to make such a decision and as a minister to determine where that monument would be. However, I believe that the profession should be decided. The decision will be decided by the museum council and the cultural goods council, but the conditions for such a monument of culture to be preserved and set will have to be met, certain conditions for its accommodation must be met. And that's what we said in public. We wrote a letter to the Mayor of the Primorje-Gorski County and explained to him that in the first row that all the findings, archaeological findings of the property of the Republic of Croatia, were found on land, in the sea or in the water, i.e. in Rijeka or in the lake, and in this way we wanted to let him know that the state would decide, but better say, of course, professional bodies. I can only say that I still seem to understand all these aspirations of people to settle there, I don't understand any further after that letter, I don't understand his pressures that are made through the press, I think it's kind of a political relationship and towards the monument because it doesn't care about the reminder but simply don't know in public causing great concern and great concern about something that even so the profession will decide.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72069	Representative Jagoda Maja Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72070	Thank you very much. It may be a little clearer now, but I would just point out that there are examples in the world where monuments of such values, and the conditions could not be ensured, that there are also replicas that are located at the site, and the originals are kept really in optimal conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72071	Dear Representative Zdravko Sočković, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72072	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to ask my question to Mr. Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, Mr. Branko Vukelic. Dear Mr. Minister, we are witnessing a slight but secure recovery of small and medium-sized enterprises that are becoming more competitive every day. But in order for this trend to be maintained and accelerated, we would have to have better funding conditions approximately similar to our competition. My question to you is: What does the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship do for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs to facilitate their access to favourable sources of funding?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72073	Minister Branko Vukelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72074	Thank you, dear Parliamentarian. At this finding that many and entrepreneurs share in part, which is that there are still some problems in accessing financial resources, although this is the Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Labour and Entrepreneurship and has indeed made a great journey through the Croatian Government programme in these three years for the development of entrepreneurship as a whole. I'll just mention here a few facts that are evident, that when we look at that factor, the TA factor, and that's the number of new entrepreneurs in Croatia, from 2003 when he was 3.6, we came to almost 7 of that index. So twice the number of entrepreneurs in Croatia is emerging today. If we look at the zones of entrepreneurship that are supposed to develop entrepreneurship, then we are from 50 zones that were built and co-financed in 2003 today to 290 zones. When we look at the funds invested by the Croatian Government for the construction of these zones, then today we stand out as much as the previous government in four years and I thank both the counties and the cities and municipalities that really follow these programmes and projects and give full support and participate themselves to create assumptions for the development of entrepreneurship. What is important is the clear lending of entrepreneurship, and I would like to mention that more than two years of a loan project is being implemented which, by subsidising interest, the county of which is the government, so that the final interest for the entrepreneur would be maximum between 2 and 4%, that we received excellent results. There have been skepticism since some at first, but I have to mention here and some concrete data and indicators, which is that the demands of entrepreneurs were almost six billion kunas in these two and a half years, credit claims. That out of that, if the banks had approved about 3 and a half billion kuna loans, only craftsmanship had taken about a billion kuna credits. So, a major response and apparently it was a need for these more favourable credit funds. What is particularly important when we talk about the availability of financial resources, so it is important and a guarantee, often the entrepreneur does not have that guarantee, we remember the story of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy and HAMAK and the guarantees they provided, so in 2004, only 10 guarantees. We came to 80 guarantees in 2005 and for the first eight months of this year 119 guarantees were issued by the Croatian Agency for Small Economy. So these are all the strong shifts that in all sectors, as well as financing towards entrepreneurship, have yielded the results that we have, both in the economy and in entrepreneurship. Now what I said at the beginning, what you're aiming at, certain remarks exist primarily in small loans, and that with entrepreneurs and the conversation with them turned out to be a problem. Up to EUR 25,000 credits needed for small entrepreneurs, for those who go into business, who has some family business, which could be realised, often in the bank long, hard, slow or sometimes never succeed, because this is a meaningless amount for that bank, often banks tend to go to consumer loans, cars, etc. That is why it is in preparation, and next year the project will be in realisation. Microcredit, a new form of lending and monitoring of small and medium-sized enterprises, which means that through and through local guarantee funds in each county one is defined so I would say a financial budget that will cover such credits up to EUR 25,000 for small entrepreneurs, where he will be able to get it quickly, if he has no guarantee he will guarantee therefore a guarantee guarantee fund at the county level and where he will actually be able to say in the week, two maximum get such small credits, but some times very important that a man employs himself or his family. Therefore, we have developed a whole range of these incentives and forms of funding, over 20 programmes that, in the context of fostering small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, and what this government has put quite seriously into the priorities of economic policy, which is the development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, but also very concrete measures all these three years followed entrepreneurs and each year we build up this system of measures as entrepreneurs themselves expect and show what needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72075	Representative Zdravko Sočković.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72076	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. I'm happy with the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72077	Dear Representative Vladimir Stengl.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72078	Thank you. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister with members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I refer the question to the minister, Mrs Matulović-Dropulic. In the area of waste management, concessions for the collection, recycling and use of waste have been awarded. Please, how many concessions have been awarded, what areas and for what jobs?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72079	Minister Marina Matulović-Dropulic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72080	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Gentlemen and Madam Representatives, the Waste Act has specifically prescribed who can and what concessions to call for. The Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction shall award concessions, means concessions, packaging waste recovery and 15 concessions shall be awarded. He then calls for a tender for the collection of packaging waste especially paper and cardboard multilayer packaging if it is two or more counties or if it is in the territory of all Croatia. The Ministry has opened such a tender and awarded 10 legal entities the concessions to carry out that activity. The waste tire collection activity has also been found to call the ministry's tender. We have called a tender and awarded concessions to 21 entities for the job. As for tire recovery, it means recycling... And like that, the ministry also announces the competition. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We've opened a tender and awarded four legal entities for the job. As far as counties are concerned, the counties are looking into a concession for a concession for packaging waste in their area and I must say that unfortunately all the counties have not finished the job. Since 20 counties and the City of Zagreb, concessions have not yet been awarded in the city of Zagreb, in the area of the Karlova County, Osijek-Baranja County, Primorje-goranske, Split-Dalmatia and Zagreb County. This is what the procedures are under way and we hope that concessions for the collection of packaging waste will be awarded very quickly in these counties as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72081	Agent Vladimir Stengl, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72082	This is an activity that has been totally neglected for years. If she was said to be on the sidelines, I think that's too much. In such a systematic way of approach, this is fundamentally changed, it will give, in the end line has already given certain results. And I even think they're going to change their minds and attitudes toward the people who do these jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72083	Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72084	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to refer my inquiry to the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister for Defence, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. With the employment of Croatian defenders, the issue of housing care for the victims of the Homeland War is of priority. Unfortunately, because of the aggression on Croatia and the economic potential of the country, not all the victims are taken care of after ten years. Madam Vice President, how is their care going, and what about the care of the 100% disabled, Croatian wartime 1st category disableds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72085	Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Jadranka Kosor, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72086	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Representative. Here, you may need to start by saying a fact that may not be known enough to the Croatian public, it certainly is to you MPs and MPs. According to the law and this Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families and all previous laws of the government's obligations to care is tied to Croatian wartime wartime people and families of the dead, imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders. At this point I think I can say that we've really run a lot of things. In that sense, we have, in this year 2006, handed over the keys to 336 apartments to Croatian wartime disabled people, or families of the dead, imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders. Also, 251 apartments are in construction, of course I'm talking about government projects, not only of my ministry, but also of the Ministry of Construction, so government programme, care, housing of disabled people, or family. So, 251 apartments are in construction and are preparing to build 495 apartments. I'll also mention the locations because I think it's interesting for the Croatian public. The apartments are built in Klanjc, Metković, Netretic, Slavonski Brod, Vukovar, Benkovar, Rijeka, Solin, Valpovo and Virovitica, and the apartments are being prepared to build in Drniš, Knin, Trogir, Vukovar, then Kaštel Novi, Makarska, Imotski, Dugopolj, Podstrena, Dubrovnik, Cetingrad, Slunje and Pločam. At the same time of course there is also a programme for the granting of housing loans, as it is known, housing goes through the construction of houses, i.e. apartments, homes for the 100% disabled and the allocation of loans. Since you have asked for the care of the 1st group's 100% disabled, we of course care for the construction of houses and slightly less tailored apartments. I'm happy to say that this program is about to end. There, two homes have just been completed for 100% people with disabilities in Split. We expect soon to hand over the keys, i.e. the gift cards, because they are houses, i.e. apartments that the state, the Republic of Croatia, or the Government donates to the 100% disabled of the 1st group. It would probably be interesting to look at and here are the data from the start of this government's mandate to this day. A thousand 658 apartments and a thousand 298 loans were handed over. Here is another information for you, from 98th to this year, so since the foundation of the Croatian Defence Ministry was provided by the award of 4000 798 disabled persons, or family members, and by the assignment of a residential loan of 6 thousand 307 victims, hence Croatian wartime disabled and family. As far as this period is concerned, from the beginning of 2004, to the present day, the apartments that I mentioned a thousand 658 and the loans that I also mentioned, I have to say that the total value of these apartments is more than 503 million. And since 98 C.E., nearly a billion kunas, or housing, have been taken care of today. What is also a problem with which the government, i.e. these two ministries, is the inability of certain units of local, or area, or cities and counties to assign space, or land that is bound by law, but we are also trying to solve these problems. Another problem we faced was to repair those apartments that, for example, began to be built back in the early 98 ’ s. They're not finished, and then they were finished by our government. I'll tell you, for example, this summer I handed over the keys to 92 apartments in Zagreb in a building that began to be built in 98. It's not over all those years, and we've made a huge effort, of course, and a lot of money, to remove the shortcomings. What can I tell you? We had to change to those 92 flats complete windows, doors, so the complete carpentry, repair parquets, pipes that were badly connected, etc., etc. I don't know why it's funny for some MPs. I assure you that this is tragic because it takes a lot of effort to fix what is badly built and, of course, those responsible for this bad, catastrophic construction for the victims of the Homeland War, for the disabled and members of their families would have to answer. I hope that happens. Here, Mr. Representative, I hope you're satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72087	Thank you. Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72088	I thank you for this exhaustive response, and I am pleased that this government removes, effectively eliminates the consequences of aggression, and we believe that this work will be done to the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72089	Dear Representative Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72090	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Prime Minister the question. Mr. Sanader, you have marked the greatest national holiday this year in a special way, by going to a city that is undoubtedly a symbol of Croatian war suffering, a symbol of Croatian statehood, in Verona. The details of your stay there are not yet fully enlightened. First, the government spokesman vigorously denied that you went there in the first place, and then after a few days just as vigorously confirmed it. The public rightly wonders why this misunderstanding. Why secrecy? What's the comedy about? Shakespeare called one of his comedies "The Two Nobles of Verona". This one of yours could be called "The Three Merchants of Verona." What are the main elements of this comedy of confusion? You don't know if you've traveled officially or privately? If you went private, why the government plane? If you went official, why did you pay your own bills as you claim to be? And did you? The public wants you to attach those accounts, to see and who invited you, if at all someone invited you, and why did you go and what were you actually doing there and who paid for that stay of yours in beautiful Verona? And you can't do that. So I ask you, did you travel privately or officially to Veron for Statehood Day? Who paid for the stay there and when do you think, if you think at all, you can present the accounts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72091	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72092	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, for such a beautiful literaryly engaged question that is not only in itself to bear the answer but also in itself carries a very distinctive ignorance of things. First, you don't know things to be proud of or ashamed of. Let the Croatian TV viewers evaluate. The central national holiday of Statehood is not celebrated as you suggest in Vukovar on June 25th but was celebrated and marked on June 23rd here in this Church of St. Mark on the Upper City where you were not. Also, this central Croatian state holiday that you so proudly mention has been celebrated in a way that the state leadership of both the Republic and the President of the Parliament and the Prime Minister and the delegation of the Ministry of Defence, Home Affairs and Defence has gone to lay crowns on the grave of Croatian defenders, the first Croatian president, Dr. Franji Tudjman. I didn't see you there either. Secondly, this same state holiday on June 25th, if you remember correctly, applies on June 25th 1991 when this Croatian Parliament High House declared the independence and independence of Croatia, when you, Mr. Stazic or your fellow SDP MPs, unfortunately, left the hall for Croatia instead of raising your hand in voting. And you didn't want that much effort to raise your hand for Croatian independence. And today you tell me where I was on the 25th instead of being in Vukovar I was in Verona. I'll tell you about it now. In Vukovar, it wasn't the central celebration of Statehood Day. In Vukovar, there was a lineup and swearing of officers and officers who had completed their education and who lined up on that day each year and submitted their applications to the High Commander of the Republic. It is one of the events throughout Croatia marking Statehood Day but not the central celebration of State Day. The central celebration was here in Zagreb on Friday at Mirogoj and at the Church of St. Mark where you were gone and I did not see any of the representatives of the SDP. And even in Vukovar, you weren't where you asked me to be. Secondly, there is a state committee in Croatia for your information, Mr. MP, which decides on where and when and in what way and in which scenario and who will participate in the celebration of national holidays, and this state committee decided on Friday 23rd that we should all be three of the presidents and on Sunday at the installation in Vukovar, since this is not the central celebration of State Day to be President of Parliament and President of the Republic. That's it. And now about Verona. I am going to Veron for the third or fourth time to Dubrovnik Summer Games, which are the Croatian synonym of Verona perhaps for the tenth time, to the festival "Histria" three, four times in Pula, to the Split Summer, I was not but perhaps once but I will try to fix it too. And every time I and your party president were Prime Minister and President of the Parliament and the president of the state, they go by official means of transport, or by plane or by car, if it's about Đakovki bonds, or by other means. I went to the organizer's office, too. Well, you don't think I'm going to go as Prime Minister what, on a bike like you sold demagogy in January 2003, you drove to the lower city, then you're like a bike up there. We're not selling that demagogue. So, Mr. Stazic, with this question of yours, you ask everyone. How we're going to the Dubrovnik Summer Games, how we're going to go to the Split Summer, how we're going to the Histria Festival, how we're going to or to Bairoit where I was also as Prime Minister last year or in Salzburg this year also at the premiere of one of the opera. I will go because whenever I get an invitation, I will also use it to visit the opera, but also for the conversations not the ones you insinuate because the sale of Pliva is not agreed either in Zagreb or in Verona, but God will not do it in Ibler Square in Madison. The sale of Pliva will happen transparently in a way that the HANFA we have established and you are not and who follows all offers because the offers are public even though ACTVIS for whom you are rooting, if ACTVIS makes a better offer then they will get ACTAVIS these 18%, if that bar better offer will get bar. But who will make a better offer will judge the Croatian public transparently and HANFA, not you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72093	Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72094	Mr. Prime Minister, it's an honor... 23. And to the marriages of the tomb of President Tudjman the 25th, and to all that ye have pronounced. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I didn't ask you about Pliva or Actavis. I asked you if you went on an official visit why you said you were paying for accommodations with private money. If you went private, why did you take the government plane? And I specifically asked you when you'd present the accounts. I'm asking you for bills, not Pliva and Actavis, so when you have a clear cheek and a calm conscience, then you'll show the bills.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72095	Honored representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72096	Dear Mr. President... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72097	Order!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72098	I have a brief question for Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Polancec, who will be without any, any passion and deal with these real problems. This summer, in our public, a great deal of interest prompted the privatisation of the "Maestral" hotel company. The question, the privatisations of this company, is current today. I think we all agree that this is one of the most desirable companies in Croatia. We're talking 100 of the most desirable. This is not only about 5 hotels of great value but also about 44 thousand square meters of building land, which is particularly attractive for potential customers. What we're interested in is that it was working, that the estimated value of this company was brought in last year, and until this summer, the stock price almost doubled. However, there is some luck, which is that the Privatisation Fund's Management Board ended the contract for the sale of the hotel without any of the tenders being accepted. So we ask ourselves whether a new tender will be launched soon and whether a new Privatisation Act should be adopted, which should first and foremost satisfy the principles of redistribution, restructuring, social sensitivity and developmental component and only then go into privatisation as both the Prime Minister and the President of the Fund have announced. Here's a question for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72099	Deputy Prime Minister, Damir Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72100	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. Let me paint a little bit better in a few words and show what really happened during the privatisation attempt and how we came to the estimated value of the company "Maestral" d.d. That is to the price of the shares at which we launched the competition. First of all, I want to say that at, that the Privatisation Act simply regulates us and defines that the first competition is always run at the nominal value of a company. In this regard, I would also like to say that, before the tendering, we tasked the sales sector in the Privatisation Fund with standard methods that we introduced into the regular business and functioning of the Privatisation Fund, whether the nominal value of the company is actually the best starting value for the launch of the privatisation competition. The sales sector has made an assessment of the value by 5 methods. Two of them are extremely static methods. One of them is therefore also the method of which very often some are called, which is the method of assessing the value of real estate. When real estate was assessed and assessed by the authorised assessor from the City of Dubrovnik and taken from them, the total liabilities of the company were taken away, which was above the nominal value. The second method we applied was a method based on the total, so we calculated from the balance sheet according to the accounting value of the company from the total activity we took away the total liabilities of the company and we got the value of the company that is about 50% above the nominal. However, there are other methods that are much more frequently used in assessing the value of a company. That's what they're called. dynamic methods so I will tell you that we have applied the value assessment method of business-based shares in a way that we have increased the difference between business income and expenditure by depreciation and multiplied by a multiplier factor of 8 which is extremely suitable for the tourism industry in Croatia and we have obtained the value of a company that is 13% lower than the nominal value of the company. I would also like to say that we have also applied a discounted cash flow method that has shown a negative price or a negative value of the company's shares. On the basis of this, however, we have decided according to the Privatisation Act to launch a competition of nominal value. The offers that have arrived give us the right not to make a mistake because the offers are in principle not more significant than what we have asked for, therefore, than the nominal value of the company. But I also want to say the offers were not fully in line with the mandatory conditions of the competition and given the fact that the public was very interested and the whole, the whole privatisation process was being politicised we felt that it was more appropriate at this point to stop this process, wait, agree with employees, management and all other so-called. "stakes to holders" or stakeholders such as the city and the county, and then after agreeing to the views, restart the process. Yeah. It will happen after we pass the new Privatisation Act. The new Privatisation Act is almost over. With the new Privatisation Act, we will arrange an area that is extremely important for the Croatian economy, and above all for employees in companies that we need to privatise, which is an area of organised working stock. At this point, we are in the process of agreeing the conditions so for organised labour stockholderships with union centres, our social partners with whom we otherwise practice and force dialogue. I believe that in the next 2 to 3 weeks we can therefore have a new Privatisation Act which will give workers the chance to buy shares of companies in which they work, and we will ask you to in the ordinary procedure and support such a socially responsible law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72101	Representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72102	Thank you for your response. Exactly the intensity was to really keep the promise to start with, first go with the Privatisation Act, and only then call the competition because precisely I think it is the point and therefore the public is sensitized and is all politicized to sell when it is most favourable, when the stock prices are the largest and not to do so under "mus". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72103	Dear Representative Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72104	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, I have a question for the Minister of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development of Mr. Bozidar Kalmet. Transport connection between the town of Bjelovar, Bjelovarsko-Bilogorje County and Virovitica, Virovitičko-Podravska County and the whole part of Croatia with the city of Zagreb is a key issue for the overall and particularly economic development of that part of Croatia. When it comes to road connection, the most important project is the completion of the construction of the fast road Zagreb-Bjelovar-Virovica. The construction of the Vrbovac-Gradac stock is currently under way for 15 kilometers, and the construction of the section from Gradec to the town of Bjelovar is planned afterwards. Dear Minister, please inform us how the works on Vrbovec-Gradac stock are going and how the preparations are going and when the construction of the stock will begin towards the town of Bjelovar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72105	Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72106	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, I agree absolutely that one fast and quality transport connection between Bjelovar and Zagreb and Virovitica is crucial for the economic development of that part of Croatia. In this sense, great works are being done to build a fast road that will connect Zagreb with Bjelovar and the whole region, and this job is divided into two shares. The first stock is Vrbovec-Gradac, which is 15 kilometers long, which you have now spoken and whose investment is worth 350 million kuna. These works have moved far and mid-Next year, it is expected that the 15km-long share, I repeat, will be worth 350m kuna and completed. This second section from Gradec to Bjelovar, which is about 27 kilometers long, has been prepared and has so far been built a whole series of pre-work so that these constructions can be started and realised. So far, I don't know, in 2004, we were talking phase one, project documentation, so far an idea solution has been developed, an environmental impact study has been done. From the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning, Construction We received solutions with protection measures so that here it is, all together before issuing a local permit and there is also an invitation to tender for the construction of the project documentation of the construction of the eastern bypass of the town of Bjelovar, which is about 7 kilometers long. So, in full swing are the preparations for the construction, for the start of the construction of this second section from Gradec to Bjelovar and as soon as all these advances are clear which will end with the opening of the public tender and the selection of the performers, then we will also start to build this second section from Gradec to Bjelovar
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72107	Representative Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72108	I thank you, Mr. Minister. I'm happy with the answer. I hope that this response will satisfy both the citizens and the county I represent but also the Virovitica-Podravska County because this road is extremely important for the economic development of our region, it is extremely important for attracting foreign investment. We don't have to talk and tell Lika what Dalmatin meant. I hope that this road for the development of our neighborhood will have the same meaning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72109	Dear Representative Josip Drmic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72110	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, gentlemen of the government. I would have one question for the prime minister regarding the tax system of the Republic of Croatia which is already known and everyone has accepted it, centralised and very unfair for all units of local self-government except for the state treasury and the budget of the City of Zagreb. The fact is that, of the total taxes collected, 90% are brought into the state budget, about 5% are brought into the budget of the City of Zagreb and the remaining 5% are shared by all other counties, cities and municipalities in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. As a result, we can conclude that major problems, especially in these small municipalities where budgets are so small they are not enough to cover employees' salaries and directors' salaries for municipal buildings. I think the question can be asked why are these municipalities even set up and are they placed on the ground that they only exist for themselves? My view of this tax system is that three important injustices have been committed to these units of local self-government and that is, first of all, the tax profit which is a fact, is paid into the budget of the City of Zagreb or the budget of the city where a company that behaves or works in the territory of the Republic of Croatia is registered. So large systems such as INA, Croatian Telecommunications and all others registered in the City of Zagreb mean a full profit tax are paid into the City of Zagreb budget, although they earn their profits in other areas of the Republic of Croatia. I can also give an example of the Croatian forests. Croatia's forests are mostly and most of the work is done in Slavonia, in Lica, meaning in undeveloped parts of Croatia. The section of these forests is expensive for sale in Italy, abroad, and the only benefit of this profit is the City of Zagreb. I don't think it can be that way in the future and that it's necessary for that injustice to be corrected. The other thing is VAT. It's 22%. I don't know, Prime Minister, if you remember any more of your security cards. We passed one VAT reduction law to 20%, but very quickly we put it in a state of rest until further notice. That's already been two and a half years. In most developed European countries, the VAT is more fair than we do. He's also gathering in the entire country and I think it'd be okay to...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72111	Question? Ask a question?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72112	I think you can tolerate at least to finish, to ask the question. So I'm curious whether VAT will be shared, like in most European countries, 10% to be shared with local administration units where it's paid, and the rest to go to the state and the third injustice is real estate tax. So it's all moral rules and laws that clean the income of the unit of local administration because all of these properties are located in their area and most of the real estate business is done. However, this is not the case with us, and the tax continues to fill the state's register. I'm interested in finally...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72113	Thank you. Thank you very much. Answer the question, Prime Minister Dr Ivo Sanader, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72114	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Representative, we will do what we have announced now, it is the first step, but before we do it again once again what I announced in Karlovac, I will say something for the Croatian public. All these small municipalities that you have quoted, which are located in the area of special state care, are freed, therefore, not go into the state budget, but remain with them. First of all, they were released, so payments and taxes on income and income tax and the state returned taxes to people in these municipalities. So that's where we've already made a big step, and if you're quoting and comparing us to other countries, then that's what you should say. That's what other countries don't have. No country in Europe has that. It has only Croatia and it is somewhere around a billion and 200 million kuna a year. Therefore, if we want to compare ourselves with the countries of Europe, then we should also say what we have done, which is our specific instrument, of course, because of the war. So we've done it and we'll stay on it. Secondly, we also believe that this is an idea that we placed from the HDZ from the government a few years ago, that income tax should be paid according to the place of residence of the taxpayer, not according to the headquarters of the company. And that's why we're preparing at the Ministry of Finance a law that would pay all income taxes to local self-government units, and tax profits to the state budget. It's one big step first of all in the system, in concept, in the model. It will be largely safe and financially, but this will not be the ultimate objective of fiscal decentralisation that we want to take. So we want to go to further fiscal decentralisation, the first two steps we took, first when it comes to areas of special state concern, what I have just stated and the second one I am announcing for next year, so income tax to local self-government units. Where the employees of the company realize and where they are registered at the residence where they work, and tax profits in the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72115	Representative Ivan Drmić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72116	I'm happy with the answer, because you honestly said what you're doing, but I'm not happy with what you're doing because obviously there's a big fraud and we all know what tax return is, it's a return to income tax, and you're just going to take yourself, that's the state's income tax and the state's income tax as you say a billion and a few hundred million kuna in the future are going to bring back local self-government units, which you certainly won't be able to handle, and after this reform, the situation is going to be much worse than it is today.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72117	Dear representative Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72118	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Croatian Government, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to refer my question to the vice-presidents of the government and the minister of the family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, and to the care of old and powerless persons. The Croatian population is growing older, while at the same time working longer and unable to adequately and quality care for older and powerless members of their family. My question is, what measures and projects do the government, state and state and public bodies offer to improve the processing of the lives of old and powerless citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72119	Vice-President and Minister Jadranka Kosor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72120	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Representative. One of the main, or one of the main insurgencies in this government's programme is the concern of elderly people, i.e. pensioners especially in the programmes that we started in 2004 after the adoption of the budget in this part of the brand-new Ministry of Intergenerational Solidarity within the scope of the family ministry, defenders and intergenerational solidarity. We then started with projects that could actually be classified into two groups. One is the establishment, i.e. the opening of living rooms for older people, especially in areas where a particularly high percentage of people over 65 years of life and another program of help in the house. These two programs so far in here 20 counties, just the other day by opening a living room in Buzet, we have actually entered with programs in 20 counties, so with a total of 39 programs of that up to now 12 open living rooms for older people and programs of special living rooms, forgive the help in the house. So one is the living room and the help in the house, and the other is just helping the house. These are programs that give excellent results, we will continue them in both 2007 and 2008 because they certainly bring a whole new quality of life to people who are very often, with older age, sick and very often abandoned and actually abandoned, and I dare say forgotten. Especially in some islands, we have a great example with a living room and help in a home, for example in Sibenik with 4 islands belonging to Sibenik, where for the purposes of this programme we have also obtained a small ship that means, I don't think I have to explain myself, life in particular in winter months when at the door of those people who live entirely alone, who are sick, who need someone else's help really means yes, life. So, of course, we continue with these programs. I already said I've opened my living room in Buzet in the last few days. For this program we also bought a car, it is very common in other cases, for example in Lica, in Lovinac, I think you can imagine what it means in the winter months when big snow falls in villages, or villages, and when people who live alone come to the house, knock on the door, order fire, clean house, bring medicine, get food, bring cooked, wash, return ironically, so we do all this through help programs in the house. All that is necessary is for older people who are told and sick and feel themselves worthy here and in Varazdin County, now I will not list all the counties where we have daily stays, but as I see some of the representatives with whom we have worked together, so in cooperation with the same cities, municipalities, or counties. What's particularly valuable in these programs is that we do a parallel volunteering program, so we involve young people who want to make a contribution right through volunteering, through helping these people to make their contribution. I don't think the value of this project should be specifically explained. So so far, we've covered more than 7,000 old people through the projects of living rooms and help in the house. What is also worth pointing out, that we hired about 460 people, especially I always point out that in the largest case, in most cases women and women at the age of very difficult to hire, means over 45 years so-called. ...homewife. And here I must point out that we are working well through these programmes with the Retired Party, with the Retired Union, with the Retired Matica, and that for the third year of this year we have organized the International Day of Elderly People and Sports Meetings of Retired People, or an elderly person in Karlovac, it will be this Saturday, so I invite you all to come because there will be about a thousand older people at sports meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72121	Thank you. Indeed, I asked you a question because we at the Institute of Public Health in Zadar found that the care of old and powerless family members was a major public, health and social problem in our county and we proposed to the city of Zadar and County a project to establish a gerontological team and the first gerontological centre in Zadar to implement all these measures and programmes that you have shown here what everyone else is doing. We have received the principle of agreement from local self-government to help us realise these programs, and now I see that we can expect from the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity all-out help and material and professional to solve this problem really well in Zadar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72122	Dear Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72123	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, Mr. Ministers. My question concerns human resources in countering terrorism and is addressed to the interior minister, Mr. Ivica Kirin. In fact, we've been confronted every day and we're facing a danger and a threat to terrorism. One of the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia in terms of membership in the anti-terrorism coalition and the implementation of the provisions of various international documents is the organisation of meetings and the launch of projects of the national education programme in the field of security, as well as the creation of legal preconditions for introducing a university level of education in the field of combating terrorism. Mr. Minister, what is the Ministry of the Interior doing in this area and where have we come from with human resources?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72124	Minister Ivica Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72125	President-in-Office of the Parliament, honourable MPs, MPs. Dear Representative, of course the subject of terrorism these days is also very current, and here first, on behalf of the Ministry of the Interior, I would like one finding regarding this issue, and it concerns the safety of our ports and our airfields. The Republic of Croatia during the entire Homeland War, and now after the end of the Homeland War, carried out quality supervision of all our ports and controlled the transport of goods and services precisely for reasons until terrorism in Europe and in the world was given so much importance. So we've also had x-rays and all of what's now just been introduced by certain countries in the West. And that is what I would like to say for one reason so that our citizens hear that yet the Croatian institutions because we have passed the Homeland War, which we know about the consequences of terrorism and terrorist acts, we were fortunate in that accident that we have prepared enough and with human resources and equipment of course through the institutions that should be dealt with, and these are intelligence communities and the Ministry of Interior, or the police of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, what was encouraged by the topic, I can say here we had before 7 and 8 September exactly, we had human resources in the repression of terrorism at the Police Academy one assembly which for the first time in Croatia brought together all the institutions meanings at which they participated except here I will count: the Office of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia National Security Council, the Croatian Parliament Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Council on Civil Development of Security Services, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, means where all ministries participated, the academic community, professors from dozens of universities, and representatives of the largest economic entities in Croatia where they were just discussing how to develop a national strategy against terrorism. In fact, our role in the future European community is very important because we are as a country, a transition country in such an area where we must take special care of it. We cannot allow Croatia to be a starting point or transit for those who have intentions, especially as regards terrorist acts and accordingly, we have launched a series of gatherings, a series of measures and our experts are today going around the world and from all the police around the world buying the best experiences and bringing them to the country. We are preparing to launch a project to design a national education programme in the field of combating terrorism, then launch a project to look at the need for new educational content in the fight against terrorism in cooperation with universities and universities across the country, through courses and undergraduate and graduate levels of education. I would also like to say that the Ministry of the Interior organises several meetings, not only meetings relating to the professional part of the job, but also those with regional-political character. We are just working together with all the countries in the region to combat as effectively as possible the consequences of terrorism, but what I can say as Minister of the Interior is that the Croatian police and intelligence services are still lucky that whenever our Croatian citizens perceive any thing that could be a potential danger informing police and mass times we had interventions based on where they were, they were not false allegations but simply not some bag that was left behind, there was nothing in it disputed, but what is very important is that our citizens reacted. And for this reason, I can safely say and welcome the very initiative of Croatian citizens, and continue to invite them to cooperate with the institutions to prove, however, that we are a safe country and that we are one of the best tourist destinations in the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72126	Representative Josip Djakić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72127	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. I am pleased with your answer completely, and I believe that you will continue to spend everything to contain this greatest monster of today, which is terrorism.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72128	Dear Representative Zeljko Kurtov, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72129	The Honorable President, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I'll ask the Minister of Police. Mr. Minister, I have information on at least six cases where the chiefs of the police department have been replaced because of their good work. I've been interested in the last three years, so not all the time you've been a minister, it doesn't matter now just until you, but before that, how many department heads in the police departments have been replaced and why they've been replaced. I'd like you to investigate it and personally talk to these people, make sure this is true what I'm saying. What am I talking about? For at least six cases, I personally know that people who had extraordinary results and excellent, did excellent work, were replaced, and publicly various criminals with local powers boasted that they would be replaced, which is what happened afterwards. That's why I'm asking you to investigate this case, to look at the local administration because I'm not saying it comes from your ministry, but that these are local powers affecting the work of police administrations. I have information for at least six people who have been praised, rewarded, and since then chicanated and replaced. So I ask you this question in the interest of all citizens because while our police officers are publicly with criminals eating and drinking and singing citizens are afraid to report to the police some of their misdeeds. I think this is in the interest of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, in the interest of this government and this House. So I'm really asking this question from the only positive initiatives to do something about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72130	Minister Ivica Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72131	Your Honor, it's a good thing you asked this question. Otherwise, in the Croatian public, we try to be something always the worst, etc. The Croatian police are always on display for some kind of marginal case and are being transferred to police like the escape of these, this Korčulan drug dealer, when the entire Croatian police were again trying to charge themselves. I repeat once again here in front of you and in front of the entire Croatian Assembly that in the last 3 years we have been talking about, somewhere now nearly 650 police officers have ended up in disciplinary courts, and because of various acts, starting with corruption, abuse of position and authority, because of overruling powers, and not counting so much further. That is not what the Croatian public is talking about. It is only proof not that Croatian police are corrupt but because Croatian police were created from war and at that time war came a part of the people who did not pass all the security checks and did not meet the standards they should. Of course, it's the result of the war and it'll take a little longer. And these new ones that are coming, new cops, new overqualifieds, they're people who are doing their job hard and we're not going to deal with it anymore. But this is exactly our determination and what the government has signed, it's a fight against corruption, strategy, and has the task of simply replacing people who don't do their jobs. Do not become engrossed in the fact that certain executives are responsible for detecting certain crimes. It's not them. It's their employees. But if they didn't make sure that their employees were rewarded, they didn't make sure that their employees had personal problems, and what's most important, which is why we have a uniformity criterion for everyone, if they didn't take care to get rid of the negativity in a particular police station, they would be replaced no matter what anyone thinks. Because what we want to show as a principle, the Croatian police cannot be burdened with political flossules and cannot deal with whether there will be elections, there will be no elections, who will win in which local community. She has to do her job. And I'm asking you to come to me with the cases you have. And one more thing to correct you. I'm not the minister of police. I'm the Minister of Internal Affairs where there are 26 thousand people, and the Director of the Police who runs the police right now has this assignment of such anomalies, and what you're saying is if we see that someone with someone, anyone, can, the job of a police officer is to drink with everyone and find out the information, but if it's about them, then it's our job to sanction us and I can confirm to you that our Internal Affairs is doing a very good job of their own. What I'm saying is, what I'm saying is, the leaders of certain police administrations also have to look after their behavior. And it certainly is no place for them to move in such circles, especially those who cause opposition. But it's a matter of ethics and morality, and that's why I call on local self-government to cooperate to help us with it. And as for all other cases, I can only tell you that by entering young people, new criminals as competitors and the best ones, we will create a positive climate, we already have it, and you will see it by these activities that the police are carrying out. And you can see that we just can't sort it out all of a sudden. And none of us expect it to solve a problem that's been dragging itself through the police for 15 years to be solved in two months. But believe me, there is more than a good will to do so until we enter the European Union, means that police are unique in all of their territory, that there are the same criteria, the same rules, and that people who will not be burdened by any influence on the side. Because I think it's only for the benefit of the Croatian people and for us all sitting here in the political parliament, who you are sitting and we are in executive power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72132	Representative Zeljko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72133	Mr. Minister, if I thought you didn't want to solve this, I wouldn't have asked you a question like this. It would be a slightly different formulated question. However, it is my wish, I hope, like all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, that something should begin to work publicly on this matter. So if we have more officials in police administrations, department heads or even more ranked, if such people... Satisfaction that in public that they were wrongly removed, in this respect I wanted to tell you, to do something about it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That Croatian public and citizens know that police are doing something, changing, not that citizens and police officers are afraid to react because of these individual powers. Not only are the citizens afraid to sign up, but the cops are afraid to work on it, too. That's what I want to break if we want the rule of law. And in my best interest, I asked that question, and I'm asking you that in six months, it doesn't matter, you give me information whether you've interviewed people who have had excellent results, and they've been changed. I'll help you with that. I've got at least six people who have ended up with the best results.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72134	Dear Representative Pejo Trčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72135	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister with ministers, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I'm asking my question to the Prime Minister. Mr. President of the Croatian Government, the Croatian government recently made a decision to build more than 4,000 Serb apartments that voluntarily left the Republic of Croatia during the Homeland War, not now entering tenant rights. But the decision has caused heated reactions in the Croatian public, primarily in associations from the Homeland War and injured families in the Homeland War. On the other hand, for over 10 years now, hundreds of Croatian families who died in the Homeland War have been asking the ministry and the government to find the opportunity to get solutions for rebuilding their destroyed houses. To this day, however, these solutions have not been positive. The question is, what is one of these two priorities for the Government of the Republic of Croatia? Has anyone put pressure on the government to make such a decision? If so, who asked the Government of the Republic of Croatia to make such a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72136	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72137	Mr. Representative, the Croatian Government has fulfilled all its obligations not only from the legal but from the moral feelings of ours towards Croatian defenders and will meet those that are not yet completed. I'm going to remind you of just one of the most important things we've done last year, which is that we've donated to everyone in the areas of special state care apartments and houses in which they've lived in the last few years, which were owned by state. So, not sold, not rented, but donated. It was such a positive feeling for Croatian defenders in areas of special state concern that we received hundreds and hundreds of letters of thanks. I just want to tell these people that it was our duty to do, nothing more and nothing less. Secondly, I will remind you when it comes to Croatian defenders who participated in the Homeland War from Bosnia and Herzegovina that this government, Vice President Kosor, signed with Bosnia and Herzegovina's resolute minister and the assistance of Croatian fighters who participated, defenders in the Homeland War. That's another thing. Thirdly, Croatian citizens who have previously participated in the creation of certain housing capacities because of their salaries they have allocated a contribution to the housing fund have in some way the right that we, with this decision of the Government, have fulfilled. This means that those apartments that we will build and public private partnership for the next five, six years because we can't all at once and those who have requested mean about 4 thousand people, they will get to use as protected tenants in the same status, in the same treatment as Croatian citizens of Croatian nationality protected tenants. So we're not making any difference. We don't want to, and we're introducing the principle of non-discrimination. There have been pressures from the International Community but not from this government decision, but from allowing the right to buy apartments. To that was our answer we cannot then discriminate against these others, so Croats who are protected by the tenants. They can't buy apartments either. So this is about solving a problem that will be solved in the next four, five, six years as much as possible through a public private partnership but cannot be bought out and remains state property after the death of that man. And defense associations, not true, we have information that supported this from HVIDRA further when we explained what it was about because there were various interpretations in the media. In the end, it turned out that the government did a good deed without being satisfied with some on one side and some on the other side and we think it's right and it's good.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72138	Representative Pejo Trječević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72139	Thank you very much. Oh, Mr. President, I think you understood me well and perhaps you didn't want to answer the question directly what you were right to do. The thing is, I'll explain it briefly to you on one example. One family of four was killed in Banovina during the 1991 Homeland War, one only member survived who had to temporarily apply to Zagreb because he worked at the Ministry of Justice. Today he does not have the right to rebuild that family house but that is why his neighbour is a Serb who is probably something during the Homeland War there worked there has a renovated house. In fact, it's about the affected dignity of these families. So, they expect from the Croatian government at least a minimum of what the Croatian government gives to those who will not say they have destroyed Croatia's state. So, I'm holding Mr. President, I'm not actually holding it, but I'm sure you're not the President of the Hungarian Government, but you're the President of the Croatian Government, so you'll believe and behave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72140	Honorable representative of Shima Luka's last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72141	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask Mr. President of the Croatian Government. What has been happening lately in the territory of the Republic of Croatia through spatial planning and management of this space, especially in Dalmatia, coast. Why in Dalmatia, why in the coast? Because this is the most valuable resource I would dare show myself to the Republic of Croatia with which today the Republic of Croatia is going and a little... It slips into the same if not a similar story we had about privatisation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm personally afraid that what's happening today with the coast actually looks like privatisation. Why? There's a lot of crime in that story, there's a lot of corruption. I would ask you to look at the letters, the letters that went to the ministries, to the state's attorney of the people of Rogoznica who wrote who they bribed, how much they bribed, what they were promised, to read what was planned with individual waves where certain houses are now being torn down. Madam Minister says there's no selective demolition. There is. Mr. President, I've been downstairs. Croatian Army Brigadier 80% of the disabled who has a house downstairs for 25 years, no, the house is 25 years old and he has something smaller, it collapses or the house will crash because he couldn't, he was at wartime and wounded in the hospital in 93 and 95, he couldn't actually legalize and now he doesn't. At the same time, while cancer patients are being kicked out of the house violently with their belongings at the same time, some others are actually legalizing their space and spreading their scope. Your whole problem is Rogoznica because of someone's interest it's spreading the building coverage, and then those people who could even legalize their own don't legalize it. But what's particularly worrying is that different law houses, their bags, harass Croatian islands, buy everything, protected belts, buy construction plots, construction plots, illegally built houses. Why? There may be someone there to say either in the government or in the county, and in particular what is bad is that some investors buy hundreds of thousands of squares at a bazaar price and then, after that, units of local self-government together with the county determines that it is a tourist-commercial zone. Someone is neither guilty nor obliged to invest half a million marks for, say, 100,000 squares, and I don't know 10 million marks, or a pardon. My question to you is, what does the government do and does the government want to do first to protect the coastal belt but not in this way? Let's say, an idea. To make a moratorium, it doesn't take long, a few months. Plane documentation, economic development, etc., compliance with the county documents because in such a way it is the only way to set criteria and rules is to protect the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and to all be the same before the law. And the last part, will you call someone to account? I don't know, your advisor. They assure me it's his fault that this is happening on Hvar and Bratch. Or maybe I'm the minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72142	Okay. Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72143	Mr. Representative, you've put in place a problem which I am aware of, and all of us in Croatia, but you've come to the wrong conclusion. Because I will not call Minister Marina Matulović-Dropulic to account but I will propose to her for the medal, for the medal. Just as I will do it for not advisers, but for the President of the State Council for the Spatial Planning of Croatia, Mr Jerko Roshin. Why? Because those two under the government program are going into something that no one's ever tried, tried, and that's where I give you credit, and that's how you deal with it, but you didn't have the strength to go all the way. We have the strength to go all the way. And as the minister said, where it can be legalized, it will be legalized. I'm sorry if this is about the Croatian defender. And if the municipality, if, as you mentioned, is this case, and if the Municipality of Rogoznica, for example, for who knows what reasons, and I don't want to judge in advance, went for the purpose of one land or extended its plan, the spatial plan to one part of the illegal construction, and it's not on the other, we need to investigate to see why it was done? I don't care who the mayor is, who the mayor is, what political options. We want to protect Croatian citizens, we want to legalise everything that can be, and what cannot be brought down has to be brought down. I apologized to me even in this House of the High, an anecdote from my stay abroad, and I lived some over 13 years abroad. In one, in a municipality near Insbruck, once, one afternoon there was a sensation. I got a call from some friends, too. I got there. Some of us started building, digging up the foundations on the ice, and building a house. And the people gathered, the police gathered. The court got together and they started laughing because they didn't know what to do because in Austrian laws there are such cases, so there are no sanctions for such cases. This is what we want and we strive to make it normal in Croatia that houses cannot be built without documents, without permission and so on. So I'm asking for your support because this is a common struggle and I assure you that there is no selective approach. It has only a selective approach if the municipality has been under some kind of pressure or perhaps from some kind of benefit, has spread to one area, and it is not to another. Let's explore it together. Let's look into it in the case of Rogoznica. But I assure you of one thing that we didn't catch each other, you say, "Save the Croatian coast and the coast," which is exactly what we do. That's exactly what this government does. If it hadn't been for us, if we hadn't declared 70 meters that it couldn't be built from the sea, what would have happened by now? In the last three years, there would be tens and tens of thousands of houses that would be, hanging above the sea, and he would come in from the doorstep to the sea. That's what we see on Vis, that's what we see in Rogoznica, that's what we see all over the Dalmatian coast, in Primorje, in Istria, in Kvarner and so on. So we're dealing with it. We want to arrange and preserve Croatian space as one of our most important resources and as one of the most beautiful parts of Croatia. Well done, everybody, but we're all proud of ours, our Adriatic coast and our islands. So this government does exactly the most, and if we've done anything in these three years, then I'm proud of what we've done to protect this space.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72144	Mr. Sime Luchin's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72145	We're the only ones who disagree. And that looks about like this. So you can't solve lawless things in an illegal way. The lack of rules, the lack of rules, so the prescribed criteria is actually a problem. I'll read you a letter I got. Two lines, two lines. So he says, "In this northwestern part of the island of Brac in June of the month without any initial spatial planning documentation, local permits and so on began building a large tourist complex. The coastal maritime belt from the sea to the interior has been devastated. The old pine forest has been disembarked, before the destruction is the monument of the "De Filis" villa culture, and the garden of the perivo is no longer around it. The project documentation shall be carried out by the adviser to the President of the Republic. Is that perhaps the reason the ministry has done nothing so far? Is it possible that it is because the investment weighs several hundred million euros or because of something else that is actually about corruption?" So the citizen asks me to ask you because he finally tells me, "Please ask the prime minister." No, no. [[/Adviser of the President of the Republic?]] Your advisor, I'm sorry... No, no, no. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Counselor. Actually... planning. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Excuse me, I'm reading fast. So... The intruders don't understand. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72146	Ladies and gentlemen, "the current morning" is over. Continuing at 15:30. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. Let's verify the mandates of two MPs. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, Mr Damir Sesvecan, to file a report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72148	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, we first have a report on the start of deputy deputy MP Mirjana Didovic. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 29th session held on 26 September 2006 a proposal to replace Vice Vukov's representative in the Croatian Parliament, which was submitted by the Social Democratic Party of Croatia by the Social Democratic Act of 20 September 2006. As Mr Vica Vukov was suspended on 10 May 2006, on the basis of Article 12(1) of the Rules of Procedure. The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament, the Social Democratic Party of Croatia, has ordered that the parliamentary mandate begin to act as Mrs Mirjana Didovic, deputy candidate in the first election unit as candidate for the Social Democratic Party of Croatia instead of Mr Vice Vukov. The commission found that the foundation of the Social Democratic Party of Croatia's notification of a person who, instead of a representative of Vice-President Vice-President Vice-President Vice-President Mirjana Didovic, would fulfil his duties under the law lays down the conditions for the start of the parliamentary mandate of Deputy Representative Mirjana Didovic. According to the Mandate-Immunity Commission, after the debate was held, it unanimously proposes to the Croatian Assembly to decide on the start of the conduct of the deputy deputy representative in the Croatian Parliament. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. On 27 September 2006, the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament began to act as Deputy Representative Mirjana Didovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72149	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? There isn't. I note that a decision has been unanimously taken in accordance with the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the start of the parliamentary mandate of Deputy Representative Mirjana Didovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72150	The next report on the termination of Dr. Josip Sudec's representative's term of office and the start of his deputy, Stephen Kos. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 29th session held on 26 September 2006 a proposal to replace the late representative of Dr Josip Sudec in the Croatian Parliament, which was submitted by the Croatian Party of Retired Persons by the act of 22 September 2006. As Mr. Josip Sudec was elected representative as candidate on the list of the Croatian party of pensioners in the third constituency Croatian party of pensioners is in accordance with the provisions of Article 12(1). The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament has decreed that Mr. Stjepan Kozina, as deputy representative in that election unit, starts acting as a representative instead of a representative of Dr. Josip Sudec. The commission found that the death of Dr. Joseph Judge’s representative was in accordance with Article 10. The Law on the Elections of MPs in the Croatian Parliament ceased its parliamentary mandate and that, on the basis of the notice of the Croatian Party of pensioners, the person who, instead of the deceased representative, would be acting as a representative, had met the conditions for the start of the parliamentary term, the deputy representative of Stjepan Kozina. According to the Mandate-Immunity Commission, after the debate was held, it unanimously proposes to the Croatian Assembly to decide on the termination of the parliamentary mandate and the start of the conduct of the deputy's parliamentary duties... On 10 September 2006, Dr. Josip Sudec’s representative’s term of office was suspended and the parliamentary duty in accordance with Article 9, paragraph 2. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of 27 September 2006 began to act as deputy representative of Stjepan Kozin. [[The speaker is not understood because of the presidential bell.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72151	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that a decision has been unanimously taken in accordance with the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the launch of the parliamentary mandate of a deputy representative of the same deceased Judge, Stjepan Kozina. We'll move on to making an oath of counsel. In accordance with Article 7. The Rules of Procedures of Representatives Mirjana Didovic and Stjepan Kozina will be sworn in. The oath is given in a way that the president reads the text of the oath, then the MP, after being called up and saying, "I swear." I will now read the text of the oath: I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will observe the Constitution and the law and uphold the legal order and that I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia. I'd like a representative of Mirjana Didovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72152	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72153	Thank you. I'd like a representative of Stephen Kozin's. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72154	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72155	Thank you. Congratulations to MPs Mirjana Vidovic and Agent Stjepan Kozina, and I wish them success in performing an honorable and responsible representative's duty. [[Applause.]] Now we're going to 2. Interpletion on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the exercise of control over the implementation of laws and regulations and the legality of the work and conduct of the bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government. In accordance with Article 195 of the Treaty on the The Rules of Procedures of the SDP Representatives Club submitted the interpretation. The government of the Republic of Croatia submitted a report on the interpretation. The debate was conducted by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System and the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. You received the report at the session. Proposer representative, Vice-President of the House, Honored Representative Mato Arlović, please choose on behalf of the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72157	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. The SDP representative club submitted the Interpellation on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to monitor the implementation of laws and regulations, as well as the legality of the work and conduct of the bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government. The reason for this interpretation was the case of Požeko-Slavon County but, as we say, it does not only apply to that, but also to other units of local and regional self-government. Namely, what's this about? When it comes to Požega-Slavon County, then it should be said that a whole series of irregularities that can be grouped into the following forms were identified on the basis of the 2004 state audit findings. Lack of records of obligations and claims, irregular documentation, unsustainable use of funds of decentralised functions, lack of control and verification of the use of credits transferred to the county road administration, procedures relating to the guarantees issued, conclusion of the guarantee contract or the provision of claims, procurement procedures, unlawful lending and other. It should be noted that in that segment, the opposition of the Club of Representatives in the SDP County Assembly was attempted to take a whole series of measures as well as by the state audit to remove these illegalities, and in July 2005 the Treasury of the State Treasury was marketed with an urgent monitoring of the Požega-Slavon County budget for 2004 and 2005. It was then requested in September 2005 by letter to the State Audit Office, the Požega District Office, and by letter to the Ministry of Finance, control or supervision of the operation of the County Road Administration. In September 2005, it was further requested and required to oversee the country's paid payments to the county road administrations. In October 2005, a letter to the Central State Administration Office to disband the Požega-Slavon County Assembly, among other things, stated the issue of a consensus on the merger of guarantees and guarantees in schools in Kaptol and Pleklernica contrary to the Budget Act. Following the disbanding of the County Assembly, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia found that the county could not function in the usual and normal procedure in accordance with the law, just as the 2004 audit finding indicated by the state audit which then warned: "... that such availability of funds in the future may result in the inability to meet the full and even needs of the public authorities of the local and regional (regional) self-government units", in particular the Požega-Slavon County. In all, it follows that the Budget Act in the section which it has prescribed in which case the unit of local and regional (regional) self-government may give guarantees to legal persons and in which scope. Then, in the section which determines the conditions of borrowing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government, and in the section which prescribes the conditions of borrowing of legal persons who are directly or indirectly owned by units of local and regional (regional) self-government. This sub-sector should take into account the obligation of units of local and regional (regional) self-government to report to the Ministry of Finance on granting consent or guarantees. In addition, in the part where the provisions of the law establishing the extent of the borrowing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government are not respected, where guarantees are also included in the amount of more than 20% of total income in the year and unit of regional self-government. In addition, a serious law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government has been violated, in particular in Article 96, which found that the supervision of the application of this law and regulations was adopted under this law by the Ministry of Finance and by the authorities responsible for the supervision of public revenues. The fact is that the State Audit Report the Ministry of Finance had, the fact is that it was warned by opposition councillors and the fact is that nothing was done or did not act then. Furthermore, the highly injured Law on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government Article 78, which states that the protection of constitutionality and legality as well as the protection of citizens' rights exercise control over the legality of labour and acts and bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government in a manner and in a procedure laid down by a law establishing the system of state administration. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in public statements by officials and also by political officials often try to interpret this interpretation often and all the things that happen in connection with the situation around Požeko-Slavon County, as an attempt to create moral and political pressure, including panic that should cause pressure on the government or cause political unrest. However, it should be concluded that the situation is completely different. The fact is that Požeko-Slavon County has been blocked after the elections. The fact that for 5 months employees of Požega-Slavon County have been unable to receive and receive no salary. The fact is that Požeko-Slavon County cannot settle its guarantees and the fact is that the provision of Article 204 cannot be applied here. The implementing law, which could not be applied for a simple reason, because the exercise is not even carried out, but is about guarantees that come to the charge when the believer asks for it, issued by Požega County. In such a situation, it is clear that two things need to be resolved. There is a responsibility of previous authorities that have managed Požega-Slavon County for years, the will of the electoral authority, because of illegal possible actions and procedures to be established by the competent state authorities. At the same time, there is also the responsibility of the central authority of the state administration and the central government of the Republic of Croatia, as it simply did not take measures and actions in time in accordance with the legal powers and responsibilities to remove illegalities and at the same time enable the functioning of the Požeko-Slavon County in that segment. Fourth. The fact is that the damages caused are measures in millions. So, from the point of view of the achievements and especially from the aspect of the failures. Both from the point of view of the obligation of the Požega-Slavon County itself and the companies owned by the county and, in particular, the County Road Administration. If the situation associated with the company Kamen Ingrad which was operating on the site and which went bankrupt then it appears that the total amount of total damage in the Požega-Slavon County area, therefore not the one relating to Poželjka County, is about a billion kuna. Such a situation has led to this expansion to the company, and that large employees are not only left without a job but the former and current owner who is in custody of the Stone Ingrad has brought these employees into such a position that they have actually pawned their own assets to raise loans for his needs so that they may be left without houses and not just without work and without pay. We at the SDP Representatives Club have been startled by the fact that it has been expressed in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We need to say that any interpretation can end with a request to initiate trust with the Government, whether or not to the particular resolution ministry, or not to propose and conclude with the proposal to resolve certain issues in a manner and in accordance with the Constitution and the law that will satisfy the interests and needs of the citizens above all for the space to which it relates. In this regard we have suggested as is known to five conclusions. Looking at the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in its opinion, first of all, on page 6 in section three, I also quote "In a specific case, responsibility for illegal behaviour in Požega-Slavon County has primarily county bodies" etc. So, the government itself has found that there is illegality, but the government is also proposing to the Croatian Parliament, I quote, for all of these reasons, that it refuses to interpret and propose conclusions. In fact, no one could have expected such a form of arbitrary illegal, unconstitutional and contrary legal system of conduct by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. What exactly is this about? Let me remind you, the first point of the conclusions we propose is: "It is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to, together with the headship of the Požega-Slavon County and on the basis of the project of the rehabilitation of the Požega-Slavon County adopted by the Assembly to establish the measures and activities necessary for the achievement of the Constitution and the law of the established functions of the units of local and regional self-government." The government itself should have done so without our proposal. "2. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is tasked with providing funds for the rehabilitation of Požega-Slavon County in the budget of the Republic of Croatia by the beginning of the last quarter of this year, either from the mandatory reserve or from the rerouting of funds or amendments to the budget." So, a very wide space on any possibility. Let us not forget that the Government of the Republic of Croatia not only had an obligation to control and monitor but, in accordance with the Law on the System of State Administration, if the state authorities do harm to their actions or harm to individual entities, natural and legal persons, then the Republic of Croatia is responsible for this damage. 3. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to initiate, on the basis of the findings of the State Audit and Control, the procedure for determining all forms of liability from criminal to criminal law for individuals and bodies acting in an illegal manner." It's not clear to us personally or to all of us at the club, and I trust you that it's possible for the government to refuse this conclusion. It's just not clear. If it wants to protect the Constitution, the law and the legal order of the Republic of Croatia, and the Government must then initiate procedures for determining criminal and criminal liability according to the findings of the State Audit and of the other state bodies that established it. Now, if the government suggests that such a conclusion is rejected, what exactly does the government advocate? Irregularity, non-constitutional and illegal state in Croatia? Willingly or in any other way politically address certain issues? At the same time, it tries to impute the SDP as the policy through interpretation opens the issue. That's not true. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this opinion seems to be saying something else in itself. Point 4 of the conclusion: "The basis of experience in Požega-Slavon County is for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to identify, on the basis of the findings of the State Audit, the units of local and regional self-government identified by those units for which the State's audit has established illegal behaviours or has given negative assessments of the effectiveness and economy of their work." Now, first, let's try to tell the government to finally take it and read your opinion and find the State Audits. Secondly, what is a startling government and this conclusion suggests, as well as all others, that it refuses and at the same time forms a working group that the representatives of the government and the representatives of our counties who are actually examining these situations have entered. So one speaks, the other works, the third writes. This is not and cannot be expected from the Government of the Republic of Croatia as a serious entity which is primarily in charge of ensuring in the executive government the implementation of the law of the Republic of Croatia by force of the Constitution and, of course, ensuring the legality of work and business. Of course, in conclusion 5, it is said that on the basis of the state of the Government of the Republic of Croatia will discuss the situation in a particular unit of local and regional self-government, to determine the measures that these... The units of local and regional regional self-government or the authorities of the state administration are obliged to take action to remove identified irregularities in the State Audit Reports, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the competent ministries will raise a question of responsibility in those cases when it is established that individuals or bodies have committed illegal acts, determining responsibility, implying all forms of responsibility from political to criminal law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The government is proposing that these conclusions be rejected. The sixth, it seems that we may be able to put into a political struggle and deliver opinions of different evaluations of the situation and views regarding such behaviour or the interpretation of the SDP, but it should be said that these lunches went to the mayor of Požega-Slavonski, that these meals went to the whole party and I will remind you that according to the news of 13.9 this year, the state auditor, among other things, is transferring the "Evening List", quote, said that I was warning the business of Požega-Slavon County even in the 2004 report, there was even worse than Ronko, said Chief State Auditor Šima Krasic to the main state attorney after the press conference. Indeed, the report is so disastrous that it concludes that the county will not be able to do its job in the future. It's a finished quote. Dear colleagues and colleagues, there may still be a question of a single quote, a single figure, with a very responsible conversation. We're not talking about losses, we're talking about damages that have occurred and we're talking about failures and failures, at the same time we're saying which ones have reached and which ones have failed to comply with the obligations in the interpretation. We are not talking about a recovery proposal offered by Požega-Slavon County, but there is one thing that is difficult to discuss afterwards. I would like to remind you that the Club of Representatives referred the interpretation on 19 June 2006, that the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia came during June as it did in the procedure and according to the business deadlines that I quoted earlier but, in the meantime, at the request of the county and at the request of the state authorities, an additional audit was carried out in Požega-Slavon County and Požega-Slavon County and the County Road Administration of Požega-Slavon County and allow us to quote some of the things from the State Review opinion when it comes to Požega-Slavon County. On the 64th side of that opinion, it is said, among other things: Business books and financial reports for 2005 show commitments of 18 million 590 thousand 646 kuna, with audits of commitments of 27 million, and more than 9 million 301 thousand, etc. The business books on 31 May therefore state the obligations of 16 million 825 thousand 798 kuna and the audit established commitments of 57 million. Therefore, this is obvious that in fact the county and mayor of the time and its bodies did not report in accordance with the law or with the true data. Furthermore, the commercial books did not record loans to private-owned companies in the value of the securities issued by which loans were given and were not charged by the end of 2005 in the amount of 8 million 753 000 I am rounding up the figure, i.e. by 31 May 2006, in the amount of 7 million 727 thousand again rounding the figure. Furthermore, no decision of the County Assembly has been taken for a guarantee issued to the County Road Administration in 2005 and the county guarantee issued has not been made in a timely manner, the Ministry of Finance reported. In addition, at the end of 2005, the total annual commitment of the county on the basis of the debt done amounts to 25 million 377 thousand kuna and income reduced to aid in... They amount to 25, so the revenues are lower than the total commitments of the county. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It should therefore be concluded that the State audit itself again quotes from the above that the borrowing was not carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Budget Act. In addition, the State Audit provides: On the basis of a contract concluded in January 2006, the County Assembly has taken over the obligation to pay off the long-term loan granted to the primary school of 8 million kuna, and for that borrowing no decision has been taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Business banks were not asked to recover unused deposits in the implementation of the small economy development programme for 2002, the company 2 programme amounting to one million kuna. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy has not been granted a corresponding profit of 77% of the loans granted for the re-orientation programme for the development of agriculture and amounts to 1 million kuna for the period 2003 to 31 May 2006. The County concluded loans contracts with two private-owned companies for which the bonds were issued in total amounting to 14 million etc. during 2004, without a decision by the county headship. In the course of 2006, a loan commitment was made on the basis of activated guarantees given to the county road administration of 2 million kuna 327 thousand. The County has not concluded an agreement on the insurance of claims in the guarantees issued, etc. I'm interrupting the State Audit report. Get it, read it. It turns out that the state auditor, Mrs. Šima Krasic, was absolutely right, is a far scarier state in Požega-Slavon County than the current mayor, Mr. Ronko, says, according to the State Audit report and what we have put in the impellation. I repeat, it is the finding of the State Audit for the County Assembly after the information has been submitted, so the interpretation is about the current state and the current finding. When the findings related to the county road administration are added, it is no wonder that research and investigative actions have taken place, have initiated procedures, as well as certain persons in an attempt to determine the responsibility and establishment of the rule of law ended up in custody to resolve these issues. Ladies and gentlemen, the SDP Representatives' Club requires that we take a whole series of important issues in the debate on this interpretation. First, to establish the rule of law of the constitutional and legal order of the Republic of Croatia and to establish responsibility for all perpetrators of possible criminal, criminal and other forms of acts for which liability is sought. Secondly, to try to resuscitate this county in such a way as to pay part of the debt, to ensure that the county is deblocked at the same time, to ensure that employees of the county pay, that they can normally work and function and, of course, to ensure the normal functioning of the county, as this opens up a space for normal functioning and exercise of the right to local and regional self-government that belongs to citizens under our Constitution. Of course, in that segment, we are starting to definitely stop with questions that actually one legal, economic and financial and self-government, local self-government system of the regional type turns into political and political accounts. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I was struck by today's statement in the current class when it was said that there were actually no special problems to resuscitate Požega-Slavon County. When it was found that it would be done in very...... It seems that those who are nervous show their nervousness because of the arguments brought here and the inability to react to the arguments. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, slowly, for God's sake, you'll all have the opportunity to speak and make your arguments. But the fact remains that it is said today in the Croatian Parliament. We're asking why it wasn't done immediately. Why did it take so many months to exhaust this county? Why did it take so many months for these people working in that county to get paid? Why constructions were to be created which were read and could be read from statements by certain responsible officials from the authorities about the possible even disbanding of the County Assembly and the introduction of commissioners, although it is clear that there are no legal grounds for this. A further question arises, why reject the conclusions proposed by the SDP Representatives Club? Unless it wants to conceal the right state of justice and also legal and real responsibilities for measures taken in such a situation. But then it can have deeper consequences and in such a segment it is quite clear that we definitely need to remove the needs of heavy political accounting on these issues. I think it is about fighting for the rule of law and establishing a rule of law in every segment in the Republic of Croatia, and also to raise the final question of responsibility for the tasks being carried out. Me and the SDP Representatives Club supports any decentralisation of local and regional self-government, lowering powers to local self-government units, but we ask that parallel with these powers follow and funds that will allow the exercise of powers... But we are also looking so that on the other hand it can always be adequately determined and started to determine responsibility for those who miss them, their duties or their rights or violate the Constitution and the law. [[You don't understand.]] And in such a situation we cannot be and are not looking for a compromise on such issues, we think simply that no one has the right to stop the process of determining responsibility for the violation of the Constitution and the law and to disobey the Constitution and the law. We underline again, our interpretation is not as many think it was done on the basis that the mayor, the new mayor Mr. Zdravko Ronko has only determined and found himself down, but on the findings of the State Audit, the bodies of the state authorities established by this Parliament and who objectively established, we have quoted illegalities, controversial individual figures and facts related to the recovery programme may be, but for this very reason, the Požega-Slavon County and let me in particular emphasize, revised its programme, the rehabilitation program after it has received new findings of the State audits for Požega-Slavon County and the county administration for the roads and this assembly has unanimously, independently of party membership, accepted actually a rehabilitation programme. The differences occurred when they were to be made known about the conclusions that were established on the basis of these Sanantia Programmes. Now you see the question is now, of course it started to be divided along the political line when the issue needed to determine responsibility. In the SDP, we believe that the Parliament must provide support on the one hand to state bodies that question and establish possible responsibilities for these issues and must also ask the Government, in accordance with its Constitution, to ensure the implementation of the law and, of course, to ensure that responsibility for the violations of the Constitution and the law is put into effect, in particular in the case of criminal and criminal forms of liability. Thank you very much. For the introduction so much, we hope that this material will be enough to inspire you in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72158	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Anto Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72159	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Mato Arlović, in interpretation of the interpretation of the interpretation and the material he presented to parliamentarians, on several occasions, quoted something that does not stand, so I am correcting the wrong allegation. One of the main reasons he listed here in terms of some mistake that the county had, is insufficient records of obligations and claims, messy documentation, etc. I think I can completely deny that there is a record, that the head of the Požega-Slavon County budget is obviously, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. But if I don't open the story any further, and I don't have the opportunity, I'm going to say my own details in my own individual address.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72160	On behalf of the government, a proposaler representative will explain the report by Finance Minister Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72161	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, so here's one topic that unfortunately we don't read any of the things that suits who. It may not be good, because I am here as a representative of the government and the finance ministers can't bring down the daily political accounts, but I need to talk about the laws. And the other thing, if we want to look at this subject realistically, then we need to look at it first when legal provisions are passed that someone can give certain rights, guarantees, etc. without asking for the government's consent. And another thing, in which time period the greatest obligations arose. And the third thing, here today, the lady in charge of the Treasury, when she said, the auditor, excuse me, when she said where she found the poor state in the county. If she said that in 2004, then it refers to the State Audit report for 2003, but then it wasn't the government's period of government of Ivo Sanader but the coalition government, and I don't think it even matter what government was at any point in power, but it's important whether at some point because of these or those pressures, certain regulations are passed that give unlimited opportunities to local powers to create certain obligations, then someone is guilty afterwards. I think we need to talk about this. So in the find of the State Audit, this last one that we received and from the presentation of the esteemed Vice President of the House, Mr Arlovic, it is therefore indisputable that he believes it too, on page 50 says that the audit established obligations of 57 million kuna. However, both SDP leaders and Mr. Ronko at the latest conclusions of the County Assembly that he literally called the government a criminal mile and that official document he signed and that he supports the lowest criminal bottoms, says that the audit established the obligation of 270 million. If it says here that's 57 million, the difference between 57 and 270 million is 220 million, and that's basically where all the problems begin. If we had realistically looked at what these 57 million are, we would have come to page 56 of the Office for State Audit where it is literally found: The State Office for Review of Opinions is that in agreement with the County Road Administration after the notice and cancellation of the business bank's contract had to take measures to pay off the due debt within that deadline to avoid forced payment and blockades. And now, regardless of the interpretation of Article 204, there are colleagues who are now or were once the leaders of local self-government and that this situation has happened to them, I guarantee you that none of them sitting here today at the head of me who was the same head of local self-government would allow me if they could use the provisions of Article 204. The law that someone is blocking his local self-government unit and bringing him into a stalemate position. It is, therefore, no matter how we interpret, has the right or no right, but how we hunt for a small thing to save the matter so that we can function, so we should have done it without entering what counterpart Arlovic says it couldn't. Another thing, gentlemen, without the intention of politicizing. From the union website, you will see the answer given by the directors of the business banks. If they were willing to talk to the Gyro account deblock today and it was not at all disputed that the mayor had made a request not to block the giro account, they would have reprogrammed the loan. And I claim the responsiblely hard county can function normally. What happened, gentlemen, in four months of blocking the jury account. Slavonska Banka charged 6 and a half million kuna on the basis of the implementation, and total commitments made by Slavonska Banka over the period of 4 months are no more than 2 million kuna. And the director is willing to discuss the reprogramme, that for this year the full principal is left in a forced charge, to make a loan reprogramme and that 3 million loans, therefore, since at this time it is a credit obligation of 17, to make a reprogramme at 20 million, that 3 million loans are returned to the county and thus practically obtain conditions with the other banks that the county can most normally begin to function. And that's true and no matter how politically difficult it was to admit some things, but I guarantee there are plenty of them. Starting with counterpart Linic, who is the oldest mayor. Everyone would've done it that way, wouldn't have let anyone block us. And the political battle would fight to determine that our political opponents have really made some mistakes, and ultimately, if that is true, based on the findings of the State Audit Office that will be here for the debate in this House of Commons and if certain things have happened, so we, therefore, parliamentary representatives are obliged to propose to the State's Attorney's Office to investigate the case. However, there were 270 talk of 350 million. My colleagues and colleagues, both HDZ and HNS, and HSS, SDP, have no claim of 350 million. You can't even count thousands of ways. There's no such thing. I am responsible for telling you that Požega-Slavon County has not delivered the programme, so it could not have been achieved, unblocked without any problem and since there is no charge of the annuities by the end of the year, it can function completely from regular incomes. The second thing, we can't talk if these 57 million and the guarantee for the elementary school at the Pleternica that hasn't been spent at all. It hasn't been spent yet. 12 million 700,000 kunas for the school inpleternica haven't been spent yet. It wasn't spent at all. Then how can we say this is a commitment this year that the government is supposed to settle with about 15 or 20 million. But it's a normal thing as it helps all counties in investment, in primary school and high school, that the Ministry of Science next year in its evaluation, in fact plans in the budget, foresees a part of helping the annuity for elementary school inpleternica and based on schools in the Great. But if Ronko or anyone else thinks they shouldn't have a primary school there, then let them say it in public. Then the primary school will be financed completely by the Ministry of Science. So, three guarantees for three schools didn't come in and they weren't even activated. And we can't consider that a commitment, gentlemen. But that we can talk about helping the county to pay off that guarantee tomorrow, that's the same normal thing as helping all the other counties. Now, as far as the legal provisions are concerned. You know that by 1999 the local self-government unit could not be in charge and could not issue a guarantee without the consent of the Croatian government and the Ministry of Finance. The Law on the implementation of the budget in 2000 and 2001 has removed the provision that guarantees should be required for consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but the provision remains only that up to 20% of total annual revenues cannot be more annuity, the consent of the units must be sought, in fact, by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Finance. What happened in 2002? Most of the commitments that we are so political and partyly arguing about took place in 2004 and 2003. In 2004, a guarantee was issued in 2002 to the County Road Administration of 24 million kuna. 2002. If we think today it's an irregularity for that 24 million, then it was an irregularity in 2002. If it wasn't an irregularity in 2002, then it's not an irregularity today either. And we need to approach this problem that way, at least that's the opinion of our government representatives. But it's also obvious that because of certain problems, the county will have to pay back 24 million as well. Despite a guarantee issued by the 24 million kuna government of the Republic of Croatia, the coalition government of the Republic of Croatia in 2003 gave consent to the Požega-Slavon County on 11 million kuna. So, during the coalition government, a 35 million commitment was created and another guarantee was issued at the end of the year for the primary school "Youth" in the 4 million Jaksics and some more kuna. And now look at that, ladies and gentlemen, out of the total by the audit report of the found liabilities of 57 million, 41 and a half million were created during the coalition government. And we're saying today that this government didn't control it, that it didn't take action, and when those obligations were created during another government, then it was legal. That's what's not good. Because if it wasn't then, if it's not okay today, it's not okay. There's also talk of a recovery program. Gentlemen, in that rehab program, I wouldn't want to offend anyone, and I apologize in advance, and I've collected pears and apples. However, who are the main creators of the sanity program? A financier who at the time of Bagaric, Mayor of Bagaric was the chief financier in the county, and now he was also at the time of Mayor Ronk, and another main sanity mag is the director of the County Road Administration who did the same thing during Bagaric, and now I think he is in the investigation process. Now, gentlemen, I honestly say, I'm surprised to the colleagues of the SDP that you accept the rehabilitation program of the people who allegedly did all this together. And it's not a problem that the county can unblock itself, it's not a problem that the county can function normally. You just can't talk about 350, you can't talk about 270 million, you can't say that the government has to give an intervention of 60 million. I guarantee that at this point after talking to the business banks in the way I said with Slavonska Banka, on these funds provided for in the state budget for the Požega-Slavon County programmes for a regular programme, the county can unblock itself, the county can pay salaries to employees and the county can function completely normally. I told you about three elementary schools, you should sit down and see. If it's a county burden in the coming years that can't work... will be part of the funds in the State budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I would also like to say that because one remark went directly to my account. So what was the real intention of this giro-account blockade? Every month on the jury-account of Požega-Slavon County comes somewhere between two million and 800 and 3 and a half million kuna depending on what costs,... the costs of decentralised funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What was the intention? Let's block the account. There will be decentralised funds. We're gonna clean up all the loans that way, so we're gonna hit the state without paying for primary and secondary school, and we're gonna have the county cleaned up. After I made a statement, it is my duty as Minister of Finance that I will not allow primary schools, secondary schools, social care centres and hospitals to operate in Požega-Slavon County but I have invited all budget users to start their own expenses from primary, secondary schools, social care centres and health institutions directly forward to the resolution ministries and that these expenditures will be directly paid to the creditors. It's been done and it's been going on for four months. But what reaction was Mayor Romko? It wasn't a reaction: well, minister, that's good. It's a good thing the money isn't going where it's blocked, it's working for the schools. I'll file criminal charges against the minister. Why? Because he made school work? Because he did not put 60 employees in Požega-Slavon County into a situation like he did not get paid. But what happens at the 7th month? In the 7th month very interesting comes a beautiful writer from Požega-Slavon County where they specify us the costs of basic and secondary education that should be paid. So a month ago, we're going to file criminal charges against the finance minister, and after a month, we're being sent a memo saying we should pay for it, too. It clearly points to certain things of politics that have embarked on real life. The government is not interested in politics. The government is interested in the normal functioning of Požega-Slavon County and since it has already started to shine, I would like to say something else. 27 million kunas were written off by the government at the hospital in Pakrac. The mayor never mentioned it in a single word. It's not just a hospital in Pakrac. This is the problem of county hospitals, accommodations, quotas, the health ministry as it was done in other hospitals. We have both colleagues and colleagues on the state's audits. We all said we trusted that house, that we trusted the state's chief auditor. She concluded that no steps were taken to deblock the giro-account. We ourselves can conclude that we would not be allowed to be blocked by a jury-account based on the Law, Executive Law 204 and I can propose regardless of these conclusions proposed by the distinguished representative and vice president of Doma Arlović on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club to them realistically, professionally and life-saving solution. Have Mr. Ronko do what his constitutional and legal obligations are, have him talk to the business banks. There's gonna be a giro-account. The government will normally help and I think all stories and politics here do not need because citizens of Požega-Slavon County want to live, want to get forms and certificates in Požega-Slavon County. That's why we started units of local self-government, and for the first time practically yesterday after the conversation, given that in the media, it came out with a respected colleague named Jurcic, we agreed here on practically 90 things purely from the professional side without looking at this. We think the problem can be solved. If we are going to push further politics, we are pushing politics into the expense of the citizens of Požega-Slavon County, and I don't think we're even paid for it and we're not even chosen for it. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72162	Thank you. A few, several corrections of incorrect allegations. Honorable deputy president Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72163	Mr. President, dear colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. The first fact is not true that the report of the State Audit for 2003 is as quoted in 2004 as I quoted it. In 2005 and 2006, it was delivered for 2004. Secondly, it is not true that Mr. Mayor Ronko Zdravko has signed conclusions saying among other things: "In the light of part of the political summit and the criminal bottom, the conclusions adopted by the Assembly of the County and signed by the President of the Assembly of the County... And thirdly, and thirdly on the record, I will quote the report of the State Audit, which says, "Not even the list of assets and necessarily covered and so on," so it is practically clear that the records did not exist. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72164	What did you want to say, colleague Kramaric? You don't hear well, do you? Yeah, yeah. You don't hear well, yes. Honourable representative Zvonimir Mršić, the second correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72165	Minister Shuker said who changed the law that local powers could create obligations without control. So if this was meant not to require the government's consent to grant guarantees when borrowing legal persons owned by units of local self-government, then it is certainly not a requirement without control because under the Budget Law, these guarantees are entered into the 20% quota and according to the Budget and Curriculum Act of the Ministry of Finance, quarterly reports must be provided to the Ministry of Finance on how many units of local self-government are in charge of credit and how many guarantees have been issued? So it's certainly not without control. It's just, it's just... It's just, no, no, no, Mr. Schucker. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Is it about whether the law is respected or not? No law has been amended so that more than 20% can be owed. The one who did this was against the law. It was 2002 and... /............ [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Law [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The law, Minister, has not been amended by the Minister so that more than 20% can be owed. [[Intruder: Do not comment.]] Who owed more than 20% was breaking the law, and your Ministry of Finance is quarterlyally getting a report on how many units of local self-government are in charge? Which includes all credit obligations and every day guarantees to all businesses and institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72166	Dear Representative Slavko Linic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72167	I'm correcting two incorrect allegations from Minister Shuker. First on the day of Mr. Mayor Ronk's arrival as mayor, the county has been blocked for several days. So the mayor found a blocked county and that's what we can read and in the review report, that's what we know. So it wasn't Mayor Ronko who allowed it, it was the roadblock, and that's what's important to point out. There's another fact left. In an attempt to unblock the founding situation, Mr. Mayor Ronko asked the minister for a request approving him to handle these transactions. On September 1st, the minister made it clear that he had no right to be in charge. Therefore, in an attempt to find a solution, Mr. Mayor addressed the minister. As a written document, instructions from 01.09. have no right to financial transactions.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72168	Thank you. The committees? The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system? The Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government? The chairman of the board, Honored Representative Zvonimir Mršić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72169	Dear President, honourable ministers, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The Committee for Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament at the 50th session held on 27 September 2006 considered,.../The speaker has been excluded./...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72170	I looked too far then, so I didn't see that... Is it? Come on, I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72171	I'm the witness that picked up the plate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72172	You're a witness?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72173	I'm a witness that she picked up.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72174	A strong witness is there, too. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72175	I have two corrections to an incorrect quote. One has already mentioned counterpart Linic arguing that the blocking of the account took place before Mr Ronk's duty, and in addition, it is quite incorrect and incorrect to invite the minister to the provision of Article 204(2). A law which does not apply here at all because it was not a judicial procedure. The account block came just the moment the guarantees went off. So, without any official or court proceedings. That's what matters. Therefore, it is not appropriate to discuss this serious matter in the Croatian Assembly this way with some kind of legal joke and yet incorrect and incorrect. It is incorrect, and it is very incorrect that in this way Minister Shuker transfers the blame to those who have faced such a criminal situation, and of course with serious consequences.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72176	It's not inaccuracy. It's something else. It's true. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72177	The Committee for Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament at the 50th session held on 27 September 2006 discussed the Interpellation on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the exercise of control over the implementation of laws and regulations and the legality of the work and conduct of the body of units of local and regional (regional) self-government, which has been delivered by the Club of Representatives by the Act since 19 June 2006. The Committee shall be within the meaning of Article 140. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed that interpretation as an interested working body. The Committee held a written report by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the act in question and the conclusions of the Požega-Slavon County Assembly held on 11 September 2006. In its opening statement, the representative explained the reasons for the submission of the interpretation in question, noting that the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not act in the case of the Požega-Slavon County in accordance with the legal obligations of the supervision of the legality of the work and acts of the unit of local and regional (regional) self-government. It was also stressed in the opening statement that it is necessary to create conditions for the normal functioning of this county in a way that the Government of the Republic of Croatia provides funds for the recovery of the county in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. It was found that the Požega-Slavon County was unable to resolve the situation in which it was brought about by the illegal conduct of responsible persons and by not implementing legal rules on supervision by state authorities. A representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia met members of the Committee that the Government will propose concrete measures for... Požega-Slavon County and its normal business. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Following the opening explanation of the applicant's representative, the presentation of the Government's representative, the members of the Committee held a cross-referencing position on the interpretation in question. On the one hand, the position on how the interpretation should be supported, given that the Government failed to exercise control through the state administration body in accordance with the positive regulations, because the measures which were based on the supervision could have prevented the formation of the current situation in that county, while on the other hand the position expressed in the Government's view under which the responsibility for the illegal conduct in Požega-Slavon County was rightly prevented by the authorities of the county, which did not establish internal control and control mechanisms and the division of the rights and responsibilities for the conduct in the county. It was found that the 2004 State Audit Office Report for Požega-Slavon County also identified a number of irregularities in financial business. For example, lack of records, disorderly documentation, unsustainable use of funds of decentralised functions, lack of control and verification of the intended use of credit funds transferred to the county road administration, irregularity in procedures related to guarantees issued, irregularities in the conclusion of a guarantee contract, i.e. insurance of claims, irregularities in procurement procedures, and anti-zoonite lending, etc. It is pointed out that in that report, the State Audit Office concluded that the availability of funds in such a way could result in the inability to fully meet the public needs given in the competence of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government. The debate expressed an opinion that is not acceptable to the position of the Republic of Croatia, proposing to the Croatian Parliament to reject the conclusions proposed in the interpretation proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to establish, together with the Headship of the Požega-Slavon County, the measures and activities for the implementation of the Constitution and the law of established functions of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government at the meeting held on 09 June 2006. To task the Government of the Republic of Croatia to provide funds for the rehabilitation of the Požega-Slavon County in the budget of the Republic of Croatia by the beginning of the last quarter of this year, either from the mandatory reserve or by rerouting funds or amendments to the budget. In order to require the Government of the Republic of Croatia to carry out, on the basis of the findings of state audits and supervision carried out by the competent ministries, the procedure for determining all forms of liability from criminal to criminal law for individuals and bodies acting in an illegal manner. That, on the basis of experience in Požega-Slavon County, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged, on the basis of the findings of state audits in relation to the units of local and regional (regional) self-government, to identify those units for which the state audit has established illegal behaviours, or to give negative assessments in the effectiveness, economics of their work and, on the basis of the state-of-the-art situation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to discuss the situation in a particular unit of local and regional (regional) self-government (regional) government, in order to remove identified irregularities in the State Audit reports that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the competent ministries have raised questions of responsibility in those cases when it is established that individuals or bodies have committed illegal acts in which all types of liability implies all types of liability from political to criminal justice. In this regard, it has been concluded that the conclusions proposed in the interpretation have a general character, i.e. to ensure that they are implemented in addition to resolving the situation in Požega-Slavon County, they respect positive rules in all units of local and regional (regional) self-government. The debate also expressed an opinion that made it unclear how guarantees could be issued outside the law of the established limit and what happened in the case of Požeko-Slavon County and how it is possible that the county road administration has claims that are the same, which exceed the multiannual revenues. On the other hand, the debate expressed an opinion that the situation in Požega-Slavon County was unrealized, and it was found that in the rehabilitation programme adopted at the meeting of Požeko-Slavon County, health losses are summed up, for example, as a matter of the health system and not the mayor. After the debate was held, the Committee decided, by a majority of votes, 5 for and 3 against, to propose the following conclusion to the Croatian Parliament: Interpletion on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is rejected in order to monitor the implementation of laws and regulations, as well as the legality of the work and conduct of units of local and regional self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72178	This is something very interesting in this report. Peace, please! Order! In the report of the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government on page 2, the whole of page 2 is quoted as saying: In the debate, an opinion that is not acceptable to the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which suggests that the Croatian Parliament rejects the conclusions proposed by the Interpelation which is therefore proposed, so the entire integral text of all these conclusions in the Interpelation is quoted. Practically the entire Interpellation was brought here with its conclusions. It is not in the spirit of the Rules of Procedure Report on the work of the board but it is simply... Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Frano Matušić. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72179	Thank you, Mr. President. Although you have already responded, because I believe that the injured article 42, which speaks of the working bodies of the Assembly, paragraph 5, clearly states: The Parliament's working body, after the debate has been held, is taking a position, i.e. establishing the proposals of the acts and therefore the Parliament's report, so on the positions taken rather than the fact that here, in a truly perfiduous manner, the abuse of the president of the working body, in order to report only what the SDPs have said on that working body, which is not accepted by the same working body. It is your job to report on the busy positions of that working body. This is clearly stated in Article 42(5). The working body of the Assembly shall, after the debate has been carried out, take a position, i.e. establishing proposals for acts and reported by the Parliament. This abuse is indeed a difficult abuse of the office of president of the working body.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72180	True, it is true that Article 42(1), (2), (3), (4), (5) of the Working Body of the Assembly takes a position after the debate has been held, i.e. it sets out the proposals for acts and reports it. And here it is, obviously undeniable is that, the reproduced integral parts, are integral to the whole of all conclusions with their argument proposed by the Interpellation. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, please consider this situation regarding this report of this Committee. ... Well, it does. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yeah, but it's not entirely impeled. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No conclusions from the Interpellation shall be given in full. ... Vice-President Mato Arlovic, a respected representative of the Rules of Procedure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72181	Mr. President, colleague Matušić has injured Article 51. Rules of Procedure, quoting Article 42(5), instead of Article 51(1) which explicitly states, I quote: "The working body of the Assembly is required to make its observations, opinions, views and proposals known to the Assembly" and to continue to stop the quote, there is no need to read further. This report, therefore, was made in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure and the second question is what the conclusions are different than the content of the debate that was there.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72182	I know my colleague Arlovic. It states in Article 51 whether, on the basis of its observations, opinions and views, the working body may inform the Assembly, it may report on the position of the minority when the opinion remains divided, etc. but it is extremely unusual to interpret Article 42 and any provision of the Rules of Procedure which speaks of the work of the working bodies to the whole of the integral part of the conclusion...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72183	It may be unusual, but it's not against the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72184	But I ask that the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure discuss it. I'm opening a debate. We're going to a club debate. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72185	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, Here's the material. It's possible to look at it with several aspects. The first is how counties in Croatia function in general, the second as a sobering with these economic opportunities of all Slavonian counties, the third as a spectre of a political-business mile, the fourth as a politicisation of the relationship between the Government of Požega-Slavon County probably also the opposition of the Government or vice versatile and fifth, which when the local self-government system is found before bankruptcy. But now let's take it this way. Požeško-Slavon County with its 113 million kuna budget of which 37.5 million kuna is on loans, simply cannot exist. So without decentralised functions or funds that amount to 42 million kuna plus these 37.5 million kuna loans, it's cca 80 million kuna, which will say that their autonomous sources or revenues are only 33 million kuna. And that's kind of what he's saying about the glow and the misery of the local mainly county self-government. Everyone thinks that Countys are God-knowing-what, and basically we see that almost nothing, is impoverished, pauperized means without any power that no government wants to give power to because it wants to rule the environments where it can't or can't get power. And that's the first one. Secondly, it is said that this county is property of 165 million kuna, but what is it? They are mostly hospitals, they are the General Hospital of Pozega, in Lipik, then in Pakrac, home of health, pharmacy, etc. which is the capital of 100 million kuna. But now how about, like, 30 million kunas, let's let the decentralised funds go for other purposes, for example. You care about health care. It's the same thing to be clean in Pula, both in Zadar and Knin and in Sibenik, which is actually found, their general hospital before the break, which did not have to pay or somehow paid for it in the 7th or 8th month of this year. So gentlemen, what needs to be done is to reform the county system, because this simply leads to the tragics. Secondly, let's compare the County of Istria and Požega-Slavonski, but I say it primarily because of Slavonia. The total number of employees in Požeko-Slavon County is, I have here 19 thousand 631. In Istria County, with 210 thousand inhabitants, almost 100,000. Unemployment there is 20.9%, in Istria 6%, 30% less than in Zagreb, 50% less than in Rijeka. Their exports amounted to $89 million, according to these materials from the impelation, in Istria I said with 210 thousand inhabitants of $950 million. The disaster is also in Primorje-goranska, which has only $400m exports to 310 000 inhabitants. Fifty million dollars less than Pula. The import of the Požega-Slavon County is 61 million dollars, Istria about a billion 150, so the total trade in goods is one 150 million versus 2 billion and 200 million dollars. We have twice as many residents, but almost 15 times more economic activity than that county, not counting tourism and all of this. All I'm talking about is trade in goods. Why am I saying that? Because I simply can't be surprised that the budget is now looking out for this Požega-Slavon County 110 million kuna and Istria's only 210 million kuna, and I said that economic activity in Istria is certainly 20, 25 times larger than in Požega-Slavon County. So, in one word, this system of gentlemen doesn't work. It's just like these new pensioners who retired after 1.1.'99. A year. The more you do, the less you have. It is one absurd that seems possible only in Croatia. As the pension system should be reformed, so it is necessary to simply reform the county system. The third problem was said by the political-business lobby, here we read constantly in the newspaper, Mr. Bagarić Zac himself, although the rabbit himself was a clear policy issue and as such should be experienced, because without politics he would not do anything. But it's not that much more of a problem today, we know what's going on here, the problem is today, the Stone Ingrad that doesn't seem to have any salvation, except for what they're running into, but we're just going to see what's going to be the position of, say, Hypo Banks, but also those who have guaranteed Zecu their property, I mean here first of all on workers. These people, these workers probably did it under duress, under threat, they were led astray and the rule of law has to help them in some way because I doubt the banks will do it, and the government also needs them to keep these people from losing their grandfathers, their houses and so on. Other than the government, there's no one, I don't know who could. The government must also help Mr. Minister to these sixty workers in the county's bodies to get their salaries, and it must help them immediately. These few million kunas, it is somewhere for these five or six months three to three and a half million kuna, it simply must not be a problem for the Croatian government. The problem is now a good will. The county's commitments to one, I have here also a phonogram from this morning's current morning, according to Mr. Minister, are about 57 million kuna, others mention those famous 270 million kunas, without long health care, although the debt of health care has all the counties, except for those who have clinical hospital centres located in the largest centers of the Republic of Croatia, Zagreb, Osijek, Rijeka, Split, which is how we made these counties privileged compared to all others. Then there are 140 million kunas, said the county's commitments to ZUC, 25 million kunas blocking the county's jury account, 30 million kunas blocking, the ZUC blockade, I don't know, etc. 21 million kunas issued, 3 million kunas removed from the county's giro accounts and there's certainly about 103 million unintendedly spent funds, so all this is hard to say which is it, yes. According to others, outstanding obligations are even bigger or by others or thirds, and it is now good that Mr. Minister suggests the county to deal with the religious situation, but who will speak again to the blocked county especially after the collapse of the Stone of Ingrad. And that's where we get the big problem. The rabbit is in a prison of investigation, let's release these union websites now, although it's probably a logic that the banks will have to reprogram their claims because in the opposite question of what they're going to do in the first place. On the other hand, we read again in the press going now criminal charges against Mr Bagaric, allegedly and against Ronk, and that is no less, if this information from the Nationals is correct, 32 criminal charges filed against him by the interim government commissioner, Mr Troha. What this Mr. Troha did as a temporary government commissioner, whether he believed it or not, and against him should also be filed criminal charges because it was obviously in some function of the pre-election racket of whoever sent that man there. Thirty-two criminal charges filed against someone, so it's just madness, it just doesn't work, it's not politics, gentlemen. I have no idea what this is about, but I've seen it in Istria, so I think it's very common for us, that our pattern is similar. I can also understand that it is the county's obligation to help large systems. It doesn't matter if they're private, whether they're state-owned, because if you go bankrupt by a company like 800 people, it goes away in some way and that county with 19 thousand employees, about the city not to talk. It just can't be out of all the laws, beyond logic, and then questions are raised whether it's the unknowing rules amnesty by banks that used their hand and hat to lend loans to the ZEC, or whether they should in some way feel the burden of breakdown if it comes to that, and the county. The other are the allegations in the criminal report against Mr Bagaric, who was delivered to us. Apparently 55.3 million kuna guarantees were issued in 2003, for which there is no contract. It was just a moment ago that Mr. Bagaric denied it. There is again mentioned an unscheduled loan of 11 million kuna for road construction, there is a loan of 16.1 million kuna, more specifically the bonds of some of the water industry which led to the blockade of the county because the banks activated the bonds, they partially settled from the county account, etc. If all this is true then it is in some way, I will not be resented by Mr Bagarić, he played Fikret Abdić, and the epilogue is also similar. Agro-Comertz is missing, and the county is also in serious failure or financial collapse. I'm not a judge now to make any judgments, but I'll say it. What I'm talking about, these measurements, the loans, it's a pair of sleeves. How to deal with it is the second, and what I started is the second pair of sleeves. County or county with 110, 120, 130 million kunas simply cannot exist. It's better that they're gone than that we simply have a county in one of those financial conditions. Okay, maybe this is too harshly said to be gone, but the state must enter a new form of financing for the county, but not by redistributing income and profit between state and local self-government but also by part of VAT. This is about decentralisation, VAT not income. With income we're going to dig holes, but there's a tax policy that needs to be a VAT, one of which at least one tenth should belong to local self-government, or counties together, by some key of half-half. It's about three and a half billion kuna, and that would be one real sign of decentralisation, and all this other thing that's going to be doing is political lardulartism, some political cosmetics, let me not say this is demagogy because every kuna comes in handy, but it's simply no solution. The second thing the state needs to take is these general hospitals because these gentlemen, Mr. Minister, the county cannot follow and many will simply county because of the fate of its general hospitals the next day be in the fate of Slavonian-Požega County and we will all come to you again to try something on this matter. Unfortunately, the problem is not understood by the government either, the problem of the functioning of general hospitals does not want to be understood by the health minister either. And last but not least, when the county's about to break. Do we need to politicize here, do we need help? Whether you need to fight election battles or simply save what is saved so that the damage will ultimately not be far greater. Whether everything should be left to the judiciary or should go parallel to the recovery of the county, but I say, as well as the business entities and the "Ingrad Stone" because it is not only 30 million kunas that I don't know, let's say he owes the state almost 8 hundred workers. The business needs to be saved that could bring back 30 million kunas the next day, even though someone mentions obligations unsettled at over 800 million kuna. It is my logic that the government simply finds one financial loan not only but simply to find 10 million kunas for the county, for wages, for the deblockation of accounts and to fight the banks with the county. The judiciary, of course, let it do its job even though I am aware that it also operates on remote control. And third, let's save ourselves which at this point save that. The state needs to take the Stone Ingrad along with the banks because tomorrow will be a total damage, and I think one ZEC, I don't know the others don't matter here at all. But it's about reforming local self-government, mostly county reform. This is not how gentlemen go on. I know governments don't want to strengthen the county because they don't want decentralisation, they want to rule from one center, mainly through financial control. And those areas where they didn't get the electoral favor, but I think we just need to get away from that logic of Zagrebocentrism. And even those who may have been the most rigid in it, e.g. HSP, today when Djapic is mayor, speaks slightly differently. Although we understand each other, HSP when it's decentralisation is not a problem. It's the governments that run the problem. Once again let the government give the county several million kunas, that's not the problem. If we need to go into rebalancing, let's help the county in some way, but also the economy of the region. Because from this data that I started with, it seems that the situation is not alarming but worse than the paper simply shows.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72186	Thank you. Don't run before the ore! Corrections to incorrect allegations, respected representative Anto Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72187	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, the distinguished fellow MPs. Mr. Parliamentarian Cain, although I may say that I agree with most of his discussion on the issue of the functioning of the county, said one incorrect allegation. First of all, the height of the original incomes of the County of Požega-Slavonska. He said 33 million, not unfortunately 17 and a half million kuna. As is the budget, you used the data Mr. Ronko made in 113 million kuna, but probably according to his wishes. Well, I'm also using the opportunity to say which one, probably the one he's staying with, and he's saying that seven and a half to eight thousand jobs have been shut down for my time. Here, that's what's the point of everything. So it's not this original data that you said it was the original data that it really is. Not according to Ronk's data, but the data we really have.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72188	Second correction, Honored Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72189	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Cain incorrectly said that the debt per Mr. Secretary is 57 million kuna, and the rest is 270. It's not a debt per Mr. Minister 57, it's according to the State Audit report. According to the State Audit report, 57 million of which are 45 and 11 and some of the missing or, well. In any case, the total debt according to the State Audit report is 57 million kuna. Not by Mr. Minister or by someone else. And that's the only and pure truth in debt. And there's no 270 or 350, and I don't know what amounts were mentioned here. And the second inaccuracy is, you said the government commissioner filed thirty-two criminal charges. According to my information, the government's commissioner has filed only one criminal complaint. So if he's filed one criminal charges, then he certainly had a reason and we can see that he's had quite a deal against Mr. Ronk because we see what's going on every day about Mr. Ronk's role and his relationship with the government of Zeca and the others in this entire affair.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72190	Third Amendment of Honored Representative Maria Byte. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72191	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will correct Mr. Cain's incorrect allegations and also refer to my colleague that Mr. Ferdinand Troha has given 30 criminal charges against Mr. Ronk as the Croatian government's commissioner for the city of Požega. It's not true, it's just one. Because, when he came as Commissioner of the Croatian Government, he found him 18 binco bonds that came on payment for the city of Požeg, and he also gave 8 million and 600 thousand kunas in the city of Požega's budget for the loan of funds to Kamen Ingrad for unfinished works, and then it was known in advance who would perform the works, and at which price it was also stated, for the museum of the city of Požega was called a tender without documentation, the chosen Stone Ingrad as an unfavourable bidder for a million and a half price differences received works, got a binco note that was immediately on 2 and a half million kuna, the works were never even started because the illegal tender was opened, the tender was cancelled, and until today these works were not carried out, and the currency was immediately charged by the Kamen Ingrad in value of 2 and a half million kuna. So much for criminal charges related to the city.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72192	HSP club respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72193	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister! The intention of the Croatian Party Club is not to get involved in these discussions so far and to face it because this previous confrontation, the debate so far resembles the conflict of two rams on the hill, each has its own story and version, and while we are dealing with the latter part of the county does not work and 60 county workers means for a long time they have not received the salary. Therefore, the situation is clear and undeniable. It is visible here that the State Audit report is read in its own way. On the one hand, and if you watch the media then you get a variety of data that debt is either 57 million or 270, or 350, even today I hear that somewhere it's been said and that debt is somewhere around a billion kuna. Therefore, this part of which we first object to the SDP, normally legitimately and legally, is that they have the right to propose an interpretation, but in this case their interpretation applies only to the government. Okay, according to our Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, that's how it goes, but on the other hand, nothing is said about the county itself. Let us also be realistic, on the basis of the opinion of the Constitutional Law Department in Zagreb, so the congregations, including Požega-Slavon County and the basic part of today's mayor Ronko's election campaign, have been disbanded, have just referred to the situation in which the county is, what are the obligations, what are the debts. And four months, so he got power on that program in that county. It has been four months and more since the elections were held, following the establishment of the county assembly. And now what's been done here? Nothing, but he didn't do anything in that part he promised the mayor in his election program why he ran. In fact, it goes into a situation that day by day the situation is getting harder at the county level, so it doesn't work. It works for the mayor and the secretary. The government doesn't work, people don't get paid, not to say what this applies to all other citizens of that county, to all other entities because it's not an intention, the intensity of this county in this way as this Mayor Ronko does. And now there are two legal situations as well as in what way and that is our objection to the government. The government of the Republic of Croatia is exactly what has been said in the interpretation for four months watching and doing nothing. Please disband this county assembly. If Mayor Ronko and this power that won the election don't want to work and solve anything and wants to bring the county into an increasingly difficult situation every day, you have the first option. Give him a period of fifteen days and disband that county, let him be called Commissioner, let another election be held. Or another variant, as our mayor Simic said, let the bankruptcy be declared so that Podravsko-virovitski will buy for the kuna. But this is the worst message for citizens in the Požega-Slavon County area. The worst message is that nothing works. Nothing works at this time. Neither works nor workers get paid, nor can what is from the point of view be done and what the county should do as such. Therefore, I think it would be wiser to have the HSP's proposal to stop today's debate, to give a deadline of fifteen days to see if these ways are spoken today and from the government's point of view that says, and I've heard an esteemed colleague, Ljubu Jurcic, who says the situation can be resolved, means that this debate is interrupted and that this 15-day deadline is to be seen, to unblock these accounts in 15 days, and then to continue the election campaign. It is not the point of talking today from the aspect of the position and situation in the county of Požega-Slavonski, the bickering of political but the point of being taken all that that the county begins to function. Will it be on this variant to make that first step within 15 days and make what you and the Ministers have discussed. I think that's a good way and a good suggestion. Or if it will not be done then let the government disband and disband itself, the Commissioner is appointed and new elections are held, and in that time a Commissioner, if he does not want the current leadership, will do the part that needs to be done and not that this is for political bickering. So the point is, if we want to argue normally, if we want to discuss with the interests and views of the functioning of the county and all the citizens who live there, and that's what we all said in the campaign, so let's prove it in action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72194	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative, Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72195	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In his presentation, the esteemed colleague claimed that Mayor Ronko had done nothing since he was mayor. First of all, I'm going to say this House is not a courtroom. This House examines the legality of operations throughout the country, regardless of what authority is in power in the county, municipality, city or state? It's irrelevant what power is. Secondly, instead of saying, to admit the basic facts that, thanks to Ronko, it was found that there was illegal business of the previous county government, that...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72196	A colleague you're correcting? You've had a presentation of the club's representatives. Mr. Kovacevic. [[Listen to me, Mr. President.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72197	Be a little more careful when I speak, so you'll know what I'm making right.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72198	Very thoughtful, but I haven't yet come to suspect...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72199	Can I tell you again? Can I tell you again?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72200	You can, not to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72201	Well, colleague, counterpart Kovacevic said the mayor didn't do anything. I say it is because he offered Parliament proof that the previous county government was illegally operating. That she had burdened herself, that she had burdened the county budget not 20% as far as the law was allowed but had several times burdened the annual budget. If this is not relevant information to discuss these matters in the Assembly, then the Parliament does not perform its function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72202	Well, he did, but that's not what his colleague Kovacevic said at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72203	He said he wasn't a colleague of the Parliament. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72204	On behalf of the promoter, the Honorable Vice-President Mato Arlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72205	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, the fact is that here he is certainly trying to replace the thesis and is trying to actually be the one who points to problems and illegalities to invoke and attack instead of the one who challenged them and who created them. And what was particularly startled by me by the last debate on behalf of HSP Club, respected counterpart Pera Kovacevic, not only is the claim that Ronko had done nothing that he had promised, but the motion to disband the assembly. Set a deadline as long as it is possible to discuss and do something and then appoint a Commissioner. So do you really think that the appointment of Commissioners is all about solving these problems? Well, the problems stay. Not legality. They need to be corrected. And in addition, the question arises, if it can be resolved by the Commissioner in cooperation with the Government, why does the Government not want to co-operate with the legal constitutional and legal institutions that it has established if that is such a claim? It's based on the law. And I must say that this claim does not stand in view of the minister's statement and in this morning's response to the parliamentary question and in his address on behalf of the government... expressed the willingness of course in the context of their vision of the problem to help this county. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's the first one. Secondly, you know how to invoke the political membership of Ronko, the ruling political coalition now in the county that points to problems, and you ignore the fact that the chief winemaker of all these problems, along with the mayor's responsibility, the HSP member, was a member of the HSP and as a member of the HSP, entered the county and was parish hall, Mr. Vlado Zec then raises the question of who are you defending for this speaker? I agree that this pay phone and this House must not be a courtroom. But not with a saying or an indirect. Dear colleagues, I must remind here that it happened that members of the HSP because of the party's position if we discuss the political state of affairs and political vision of the problem left HSP there in Požega, and the president and member of your Council became even independent candidates because of, among other things, the HSP's stance on the government of Zeco and its behaviour. So don’t try to transfer responsibility to those who try to point to the problem. The problem is too serious, too heavy, and it needs to be resolved. That's the other thing I wanted to say. Third, of course there were guarantees and debtors issued and within individual units of local self-government not only of the town of Požega but also of other units of local self-government in Požega-Slavon County, other legal entities and the company "Kamen Ingrad". But it should be made clear when guarantees are issued as an instrument for the insurance of contracted transactions, an instrument for the payment of contracted transactions when it was approved by the City and Headship Assembly by those who, as determined by the State Audit or approved by the County Assembly, were neither informed of the Headship nor even reported in the State Audit Report itself. Of course, the question is specifically raised because you tell your colleague Kovacevic that you have heard here about a debt of even a billion. No, you didn't hear right. In the opening statement, I said that the total damage if the merger is missed by the County of ZUC and the business of the company "Kamen Ingrad" over which the bankruptcy is opened, and in the bankruptcy, more than 790 million kuna has been reported with all others, then the damage is broken in that county by nearly a billion kuna and the question arises in which way this damage will try to resolve the possibility of a normal life and normal business in that county and normal growth and development that should be monitored and that county in the Republic of Croatia for development. And in this respect, I fully agree with all those who warn that the problem is much more difficult than it seems at first sight. Why? Because the company "The Stone Ingrad" for the value of its assets does not have the same value of the property that the county road administration is looking for in its bankruptcy, because it is also a claim, only this claim is greater than the total capital of "The Stone of Ingrad". So what's this about? I don't want to spread on behalf of our club, on behalf of the promoter... As in the first one, this debate began on the need to change the system of regulation of local and regional self-government. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Until thesis is replaced. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But we must warn that if we are to discuss this then we can open a political debate on the overall situation in this... And one more thing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today, we also had the oath of our colleagues, new colleagues or old, old new colleagues, where we have guaranteed our honor that we will respect the Constitution and the laws, the ruling laws in the Republic of Croatia. In such a situation, all of us, when we took the oath, took the same. On the basis of which legal basis you would find it possible to disband the assembly and the legal and legitimate body of the citizens of Požega-Slavon County, bring it into a situation that it cannot function to introduce a commissioner whose dictatorship, the Government, and at the same time seek the vote to be called. I want to remind you of article 84. The Law on Local and Regional Self-Government which says "... that the proposal of the Central Authority of the State Administration, the competent authorities for local and regional (regional) self-government of the Government of the Republic of Croatia will disband the representative body if it adopts a decision or other act that threatens the sovereignty, territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia." If the representative body of the newly established unit of local or regional (regional) self-government does not adopt statutes within 60 days of the date of establishment. Where it often adopts general acts contrary to the Constitution, the law and the other regulation or because of frequent serious violations of laws and other regulations. If he does not elect a municipal chief, mayor or mayor within 30 days of the date of the establishment of a representative body or of a lack of trust expressed to the mayor, mayor or mayor, or from the resignation of the municipal chief, mayor or mayor. Fifth. If, for any reason, it remains permanently without the minimum number of members required to work and make decisions. Six. If he can't make decisions from his district for more than three months. Seven. If it does not adopt a budget within a specified period of time, or if it does not make a decision on temporary financing. 8. If it does not adopt a spatial plan within a specified period of time. As you can see, a respected colleague is nowhere to be found, there is no legal basis for disbanding the congregation because the assembly and its mayor warns of illegalities and warns about the failures of law enforcement done by this or by state were local bodies, especially in the past time in which it has been done here. Therefore, I must ask you not to do well when the representative body of the Croatian Parliament, the highest legislative body and the representative body of the Croatian people and all citizens of Croatia, opens a debate on denying the similar rights of our citizens in units of local and regional self-government, starting with a solution to try to resolve a specific issue through the direct route or perhaps help to its former member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72206	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72207	Well, Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm correcting an incorrect assumption. Apparently, Mr. Arlovic didn't listen well. I didn't defend anyone in the name of the Croatian Party Club, nor who I was protecting. The main part and the position of the Croatian Party is the right to resolve the functioning of the county, the county assembly of all bodies. You yourself have stated in reasons for disbanding that they cannot implement decisions within 3 months of their work. So we have, we've given two legal situations. Will the county start with the government in the way Minister Shuker said to execute and unblock the county's accounts and function or will we continue to allow this agony? That's why you've misunderstood me quite wrongly and normally we're in favour of the prosecution bodies continuing their part of the job, but first it's important to enable the county to work rather than politically speculate with various situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72208	Honorable representative Maria Byte, correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72209	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am correcting the incorrect allegations of counterpart Arlovic, who said his name was Mr. Ronk for irregularities in Požega-Slavon County. This is not true, it is not called Mr. Ronko for inherited irregularities in Požega-Slavon County, but for the non-functioning and politicisation of the state of Požega-Slavon County and so that it is clear that whoever sinned according to the findings of the state audit should answer to the institutions of the Croatian state. And I support this statement from the "Evening List" 22.09. Mr. Ivica Ihas, the president of the union of state and local officials and of Croatia, said, "...he who took over the government did not engage enough to take care of it and take the necessary steps towards the bank to unblock the account. I also told Mayor Zdravko Ronk that I had him directly responsible for this situation." That's what we're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72210	Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72211	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I think there's a few things I need to explain here. You said the government wasn't ready to talk. My first exposure to the current class, I think it was in May when we talked about the functioning of primary and secondary education, then we said that we weren't in charge of certain controls, that we were waiting for the findings of the state audit for the simple reason we couldn't accept it, and it's illogical that the county that has the budget of 17 million could do 270 million minus in 2-3 years. But I also understand political struggles. However, I would like to see how colleagues from the SDP who have submitted this impelation that they are in power and that the conclusion in which it literally stands is, "... today by means of a piece of the political summit and the criminal bottom." It's a memo sent by the president of the assembly to one government. Is this a memo that calls for dialogue, is this a memo that the government gentlemen say I would like to sit down with you and agree on what to do. No, dear friends. It's not a letter of dialogue. It's a memo, I'll go on my own way, so as far as it goes. That's what it says in the conclusion, and let's not push into the chest into democracy. No one likes to be told it's part of a criminal mile. We're all bloody under the skin. They were SDP's, whether HDZ's, whether HSS's or HNS's. It's not the conclusion of a representative body that wants to make a deal, which wants to get out of trouble. Friends, you can't get away from this. This is a memo from a few days ago, it's not a memo from 5-6 months ago. A letter as it was already known that certain talks were being held, that certain contacts between the SDP and the HDZ were being made, that the problem should be resolved. What's that, who's from the political top? Is that, is it me, is it the Prime Minister or the party, is it one of the vice presidents, is it one of the resolute ministers, who is the criminal bottom with which we communicate in Požega? I'm asking you to give me an answer to that. And today, as a representative of the government, I made an offer for a solution. Did someone from the SDP even try to talk about it at some point? I'm not saying it's an ideal. After all, we're here because, there's more of us to come up with some smart solution, but I have to warn this because he's a respected representative of Linic, he warned me that this conclusion was not signed by Ronko but by someone else. It doesn't matter who signed it, it matters what's inside and Slavko Linic would certainly react to this as I do now. Knowing him, I'm sure he'd react like this. You can't let that happen. One party but the SDP can't afford to have this behind this. As you're HDZ, you'll never let that happen. To have his mayor make a signature like this and say that the government is without any evidence in the face of the criminal bottom. He doesn't want a deal, he is aware that he missed the topic, that he manipulated his own colleagues in the party, that he was providing incorrect information because the finding of a state audit for me as a member of the government, a document I must confess. And you're calling him today. But don't be angry with the SDP gentlemen, you were also talking about 270 and 350 million. But don't be angry with the SDP gentlemen, you were also talking about 270 and 350 million. You also said it was an obligation, but it says 57 million. But look, Ronko gets this report, pass it on to the county council, make some kind of a table, I deny it, I just said that the two men who made all these problems in the past, the creators of these tables, came out to the Croatian public, here's the state's audit found 270 million commitments. So where is it? Here I am, gentlemen, please find me that 270 million. Maybe I'm financially illiterate even though I've worked in finance my whole life. That 270 million is gone, and unfortunately, even the president of your party has been deceived, and he has been told 350 million, and these 350 million have no gentlemen in any official document. You don't have it. We can talk as much as we want, whoever finds it in any official document I'm willing to publicly apologize to anyone. But I cannot accept that a representative of the County Assembly is looking for an agreement and says that the political summit is in line with the criminal... in Požega County. It's just a lie. And what's the next conclusion? If the State's audit has established total liabilities, they fail, 57 million, they demand 67 million, and within a few days, give it ultimately and finally. And I'm just telling you that he was this ultimate towards business banks, that he set himself up like this and used the provisions of Article 204. The law of execution, regardless of what the execution was before he became mayor, but the execution was made from the moment he was the electoral winner so that these things were connected. You wouldn't have the county in a blockade today, you wouldn't have problems like this. So on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I suggested how the problem can be solved, I suggested that the commitments that will come in the next few years be resolved, and I don't think there's any need to convince each other here today that two and two are six, two and two are four, although sometimes there can be three or five, but eventually we always come to four, and therefore, because I repeat, the media has already said that me and my colleague Jurcic have found each other and that we have agreed on a professional level of some things. I think that this is a solution for Požega-Slavon County, I think it is a solution that the citizens of Požega-Slavon County function normally, but what we cannot accept is that someone is constantly imputing us and what is even more regrettable yesterday, someone has imputed that I, in the name of the Government in the negotiations, asked to give up the debate on "Brodosplite" and something in the name of Požega-Slavon County and that we agreed to give 20 million, it's simply untrue. It's just a lie. No one has ever mentioned "Brodosplit" in this context, and no one has mentioned in the context that the government will give 20 million because there is no need given them. There's no need to give them. Because then all the mayors and all the mayors would have the right to ask for the same money. So I repeat, we can't agree that we won't cooperate if anyone who needs the government's help calls the government to cooperate with the criminal bottom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72212	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, a respected representative and Vice President Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72213	First, I have to correct the incorrect assumption. Nor does this conclusion, he calls the government in connection with the criminal bottom, but says the bodies of the political summit, by the way, be told. But what's key, I want to fix it for a phonogram. That's not the conclusion that sent the club of representatives into the parliamentary procedure. It is the conclusion of the County Assembly, and that conclusion is not the material proposed in the debate. This is the conclusion of the county assembly, which was not referred to by the MPs' club in the parliamentary procedure. ... I want the phonogram to be true. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You said that conclusion was speaking, you didn't say who gave it. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72214	HDZ representative club, respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72215	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Indeed, there is a bile debate about the real situation in Požega County, which we see for sure and clearly is not great. If one of the largest firms is in bankruptcy, if the budget of Požega County is blocked, of course these are the facts we need to discuss here and where we should try to find any way out. In that sense, I believe this interpretation will help to discuss everything that is important and to try here as Minister Shuker does, there is enough of us, so that everyone can make a proposal and see how it comes out of this situation and how it is possible. I have to admit, I can't help thinking that this whole case has been quite politicized since the beginning of its appearance in public and that this political dimension is actually the fundamental dimension of this whole problem. I think it would be best to bring the problem down to that professional economic, legal level because it is obvious that Požega County's solution exists. We really don't have anything here to add to the minister's exposure, the figures are numbers. Indeed, in the exhibitions, the public appearances of incumbent Mayor Ronko speculated with the debt of the county of 200, 250, 300 million kuna. His attitude was, at least so presented in public, people I inherited it, I'm not guilty, I pray that the government resuscitates that I can continue to do it. It's simply not a good approach, it's simply not a correct approach. Maybe Ivica Racan could have done the same in 2000 when he took over the coalition government and said I have a problem with that and that, and I don't want to work until these people have solved it for me before. Maybe Prime Minister Sanader could have said in 2003, I have a budget deficit of 6.3%, so I'm going to work it out. It's just not the way. Why do I think it's an object and this whole case is politicized? I have no idea, and I have no belief that Mayor Ronko has taken all those measures that he could take under the law. So imagine all of you sitting here, there are colleagues who are also mayors, there are colleagues who are also mayors, that we may be blocked by a jury account, which we will do in that situation. First, we'll look for all the legal means in which to postpone that blockade, to solve the situation one normal way. Is that Article 204? The executive law, I agree, was not a classical exercise, it was actually a transfer of funds by virtue of the debt, but Article 204 we are now engaged in a professional debate, Article 204 is not a classical executive medicine but is an institute that protects the state budget, the budgets of the local self-government units. These are privileged credentials that cannot be removed from the jury account by all means but must leave a certain amount of money to perform their legal functions on the jury's account. Such an objection was to be made, of course, one thing. Another thing, which is why he doesn't sit down with business bank representatives and work on debt reprogramming. So County with its revenues definitely in the future, because they're permanent, they're unequivocal, the county can settle that debt. Why don't you do it? All this is obviously not done and it puts one big stain and one big shadow and doubts that this is still a major politicization of this whole case. Indeed, it has been speculated with that 200,300 million kuna debt, but now, according to the State Audit, it is undoubtedly found to be a debt of 57 million kuna... That county, that's, that's another legal person, no county roads. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] However, that debt does not come to pass from one time. That debt, of course, when it's reprogrammed, it's 15, 20 years old and it's possible to repay that debt. Today there is no county in the Republic of Croatia, the city or municipality that has no credit, no. Why didn't he do it? That's what we're interested in here. Now, the fundamental question of this interpretation is that the government did not take control, that it did not exercise control. Indeed, the question is raised because, indeed, in 2002, a guarantee was given precisely for this amount that is now blocked. After that, the same government agreed in 2003, a new 11 million kuna loan was granted. The request seemed to me to be at 15 million kuna, but it was reduced to 11 to fit in to those 20% that were allowed. So these are all questions that are being opened here. In my opinion, the only way out and what will be of interest to all those people who have no salary and who are justified, with justification today, are waiting for this session of ours and thinking about what we are going to do today at the session of the Parliament, what conclusions and decisions we have made. The only right way out is for me what Minister Schucker has already said. Talks and negotiations with the business bank, Slavonska Banka, reprogramme the terms of the loan, unblock the jury account. Now, of course, the government will, because the government is now in a orderly manner undermining obligations related to decentralised assets, whether directly to users or to the central account, of course the regulation is possible and directly to users. After that, at least those who are currently burning will have problems, which is that people are without pay and that the county does not have the basic means of functioning, will be resolved. And after that, we can get into that second phase, which is a more serious recovery of Požega County. That's what it takes. And in the end, there's still one that seems to me to be a positive side to what we're discussing here. I think that after Požega County, although it is not the right path, but after Požega County, I will trust most municipal mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors will still awaken awareness that when it enters certain business arrangements that it is necessary to deal with the attention of a good master, a good host, as our audit says. The Croatian Democratic Community club will not support this interpretation. In any case, we believe that there was no fundamental issue of control by neither the government nor this government before, so we support what it says in the government's opinion: every county, municipality and city must establish its own internal control, its internal control, because it works before business is concluded. He'll warn the headship, don't make a deal because it's harmful, it's not good. And this, when it comes to the government or when it comes to the Ministry of Finance, it comes after the loan contract is concluded, after the guarantee is given and then more is very difficult to do anything. The Croatian Democratic Community Club does not support this interpretation, but we are sending a message from here to Mayor Ronko to exercise those legal powers for which the voters of Požega County and elected him, which is to take all necessary measures in the first place to sit at the same table with the representatives of the business bank, to arrange a loan reprogramme, to unblock the county's jury account and that normal county functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72216	Correction of an incorrect quote, Vice President, Honored Representative Mato Arlovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72217	Dear counterpart Bosnjakovic said he is another legal person of ZUC and as a county has nothing to do with it. I must remind myself that the County Road Administration is not a company of commerce, but a facility established by the county and for which the founder is in full responsibility for all its losses. And in this respect, it is not enough to talk about 57 million identified by the State's revision of the loss of the county but must be talked about all the losses incurred and inaccessible by the County Road Administration. ... They're not all paid. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, no, they're not paid. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72218	On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Milanka Opačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72219	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. A little over half a year ago, unfortunately, with her actions and her lack of help, the HDZ government in some way gave up almost 100,000 of its citizens living in Požega-Slavon County, and it seems to us only for one single reason, and that is because the HDZ is no longer in power but won the SDP. Unfortunately, in that county, all employees and their families have not received their earned salaries for 5 months and have not been able to ensure their children a normal departure to school this autumn unlike other children in Croatia. And how did the bankruptcy of a county happen? By the previous HDZ mayor, but also the HDZ government thus bought power from a coalition partner. Former Mayor Bagaric owed the county without cover, without the government's consent and the county's assembly, loaned state money to private firms, paid no charges and evidence of the works carried out, and this is all something the State Audit found. For a full five, six months, the blockade of the Požega-Slavon County and the Government of the Republic of Croatia has persistently refused to provide assistance, and it would be at least appropriate to address the consequences of years of illegal practices. This interpretation was a form of pressure to find some solutions, not for Mayor Ronk, but for the citizens of Požeko-Slavon County. Talks were also held, but unfortunately without results, as there was not enough will by the government to find a solution to the crisis situation in this county. For the past two weeks, we have been listening to the promises of both the Presidents of the Parliament and the Prime Minister that by the start of the Parliament and the debate on this impelation some solution will be found. As always, only empty promises remain so far. And the tactics of spreading deliberate untrues is the only thing that has actually been systematically addressed by the Government of Požega-Slavon County all these months. Instead of helping the citizens of Požega County, the government was told about how Mayor Ronko had led to the blockade of the county by visiting banks and asking them to block all accounts. At the same time, it is silenced that the government's commissioner from HDZ asked for 65m kuna, as the county had already been blocked and could not function normally. The county, therefore, was blocked before the elections and before the SDP came to power in the county. Otherwise, it is a county that begins by standard and development itself, and so much is more difficult in the county. He unfortunately spread the Minister of Finance himself, who here on several occasions in the Assembly, to our questions, on how the SDP exaggerates the county's debts, that they are not so great. Unfortunately, debts that are extremely large for the county have been confirmed by the State Audit. The state audit confirmed that we were right and the debts were much higher than the SDP said. And this morning, Minister Schuker again said things that don't stand because he said Mayor Ronko could have solved the situation in the county and unblocked the county only if he wanted to. And the truth is that the mayor asked the government for help in obtaining consent for the post, but Minister Schuker rejected it. After today’s debate, it is clear why. Out of pure insult. Minister Shuker said here earlier that he and the people in the government were called a criminal bottom and therefore, therefore the insult did not solve the Požega-Slavon County problem. The fact is that you may be opposition parties, and I can allow a certain amount of political undertone in some topics. However, the executive authority is obliged to address problems and this is not about solving the problem of Zdravko Ronka, this is about the government being obliged to help the citizens of Požega-Slavon County. Citizens of Požega-Slavon County did not write any memos, they waited neatly and patiently for the government to help and improve their standard of living, to help them live better in their county and to correct those mistakes that she had not corrected before she had to respond to irregularities in Požega-Slavon County. That the situation has been poor for a long time in the county and that the county has been in debt against the law has also been confirmed by a state auditor who claimed that the situation in the county is worse than Ronko says and that she warned in her 1994 report. None of the state authorities responded, and there is the government's responsibility because it did not stop the illegal borrowing of the county in time. She did not break up with only one reason, and that was because HDZ was in power at the time and that they would have to admit that HDZ Mayor had been doing illegal business. The fact that there were criminal activities in the county also confirms the recent arrest and detention of the Zec government, the owner of the Ingrad Stone, as well as a recent HSP mayor. Thanks to him and the meet with the former mayor at the checkout, the county's bonds arrived. All that money's been charged twice for the same job. What is worrying and what shows the government's character is that when it comes to Vlado Zac's assistance was possible, but when it comes to the citizens of Požega County, the aid is being denied. We have been talking about this for a long time, and today we have asked Prime Minister Sanader on several occasions, which is why he wrote off 36 million kuna in a closed session of the government's Zec, despite opposition from individual ministers. Why is the taxpayers' money rewarded Vlado Zec and cannot be helped by the residents of Požega County? With those 36 million kunas that went to rehabilitate the former, therefore, HDZ mayor's move, the county could be unblocked and become operational for the benefit of the citizens. Požek County according to its current state is in charge of the next 10 years and cannot be derived from it alone. Unfortunately, the government's assistance is missing at this point. And it is not so much a question of whether to reprogramme the debts one way or another, the problem is that this county is in no way able, without the help of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to get out of these problems and it cannot function, there will still be a county that will only go backwards and the question is where poverty in poverty can be stopped in that county. What's the government's message? One who respects the law cannot get help, and one who is a member of the HDZ can get everything. It can also disrespect the law, so it will not be sanctioned and will still receive help or a seat in the Assembly and parliamentary immunity. One who tries to expose illegal acts is called a politician, and the quest to solve the problem is qualified as a circus. Thus, the entire situation in Požega County was characterised by Prime Minister Sanader. I'm not sure that the citizens of Požega County are circulating because thanks to the former HDZ mayor today they can't get credit lines, incentives in agriculture, social transfers and anything that can make life difficult for them anyway in that county. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72220	We have a series of corrections of incorrect allegations. First respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72221	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's just a few false allegations. The first incorrect allegation, the HDZ government gave up hundreds of thousands of citizens of the county. That's incorrect. Another incorrect allegation, the government bought council members from other parties in Požega County. It's not true, it's not true. The third incorrect allegation was not enough of the government's will to solve the problem. It's not true, it's not true. The fourth incorrect allegation, the county was blocked before the SDP came to power. It was not blocked, it was blocked the day it was known, but it was known who had come to power and the elections had already been held. Fifth, that she wrote off the debts, that the debts were written off 36 million. It's not debt write-offs, it's cost-recognition like any other quarry. Don't, and all you've been listing it is simply an incorrect, untrue deception to the public. Your mayor Ronko didn't use his powers to get the county out of a problem that she objectively came into.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72222	At 17.42, it was time for a single debate of 10 minutes in this topic of the agenda. The second correction to the incorrect allegations, the respected representative of Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72223	Thank you, Mr. President. The distinguished representative said the government gave up 100,000 of its citizens, which is incorrect. According to the list, 85 thousand of them had given up Mayor Požeko-Slavonski, Mr Ronko, who deceived those same citizens by offering them a solution in the elections, and also not taking the measures he needed and had to take as mayor to keep this county from being blocked.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72224	Third correction, Honored Representative Ante Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72225	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, in a number of incorrect allegations, the esteemed MP Opačić, I will correct a few, although Mr Matušić has already corrected some. She said the county was blocked before the election. I'll just remind you, the election was 9.4. And the county was blocked on 10 May. Just so you know. The second correction to the incorrect assumption is that Mr. Ronko didn't go near the banks. Mr. Ronko went to the banks, you can confirm by the witnesses, here's what I suggest you ask Croata's bank. Third, that Mr. Ronko had the director of the county administration file for bankruptcy, and the question is whether he could have been adopted by a trade court or not. He didn't adopt it because there's no basis to adopt it, and all in the sense of the blockade. And lastly, Mr. Ronko doesn't want to help his citizens, not that the government doesn't want to help its citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72226	Fourth Amendment of the Honored Representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72227	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am correcting the incorrect allegations of my colleague Opačić as a representative of Požega-Slavon County that the government has given up 100,000 citizens of Požeko-Slavon County. Namely, this is incorrect because all the programs that have been run in Požega-Slavon County from the water industry, roads, sports halls, schools, buildings of the university, programs in culture and even for the city library that is in the jurisdiction of the city, programs for agricultural economies and economies are going. What might now be a problem is that the County of Požega-Slavonska will not be able to deliver in time to the ministries of the united budget programmes for next year but I sincerely hope that in the Croatian government there will be an understanding of this delay due to the difficulties of Požeko-Slavon County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72228	The Fifth Amendment is the Honorable Representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72229	... It is neither true that the government of Prime Minister Sanader has forgiven part of the debt nor that the ministers have opposed it. [[You can't hear the speaker, you can't hear it.]] It is true that the previous government has forgiven part of the debt to Mr. Vlad Zac and Sanader's government has reprogrammed the debt with a social intention to keep their jobs, not to let people go so that the company doesn't fail if it can be saved. And that decision was no different than unanimous. So there was no conflict of opinion in the government about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72230	And the last sixth correction by the respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72231	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it's not true that the county is, and that means its inhabitants are poor and miserable because that's why we insult them if most of the county makes the town of Požega and successful Požega was run by the great mayor Ronko who can be said to be rich in Požega because Požega borrowed money from Stone Ingrad. Well, then, if someone has money, they're probably borrowing it. Then there's the big one, and we know that these big stadiums can only make rich municipalities, rich cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72232	Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72233	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, truth be told, a man must be sad after such a debate by the distinguished representative Opacic. The first thing she said was a series of insinuations and inaccuracies. Never, find anywhere in public that I have said how much the debt of Požega-Slavon County... You're like the party that you were saying... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A million. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now that the State Audit find has denied you, you don't know how to get away with it. That's your problem. The second thing, the tax administration's finding around the county road administration if you add up 24 million as a commitment in the county and county road management then you get 48, but if it's 10.5. when it's already well known that SDP and Ronko will be head of Požeko-Slavon County... We can't possibly say that there were no certain influences. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Secondly, you have a record from the plenary sessions of the Croatian Parliament. You can read what I've answered to both of the eternal questions. I was exclusively talking about the functioning of those services that are financed from decentralised funds. I have never touched the local part because as Minister of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and as a responsible man, I cannot allow myself for the sake of the Croatian public to comment on the figures that some unfortunately allowed themselves, never. It wasn't until the State Audit report came that I started talking about 57 million kuna. Also, what I said this morning... I would have preferred it far more if you'd looked back on my motion for recovery. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Another thing, I, as finance minister, cannot sign a reply to the task of a single county whether I like someone or not. I know that my former government office as mayor has been stripped of credit claims, but I can't sign it that way because I can appeal to legal provisions. I continue to argue that Požega-Slavonia County, based on positive legal provisions, does not require any permission from the Government for a guarantee. Also, if the debt has already been made, if it has been granted credit debt. So what does he need some kind of a new assignment when this credit responsibility of the local self-government unit leads to a general government deficit? What are we talking about? What kind of assignment if someone's in charge? And the other thing, based on this conclusion if you democratically consider it your political right and the matter of your political culture that someone can unargumentedly call someone a member of a criminal mile I have nothing against it. But personally, I will never do that to anyone from your party. And if you think it's okay. I respect that, but let me, as a representative of the government, have the right to comment on that. But unfortunately, as you've been chasing numbers all along, you've remixed the numbers, the Ministry of Finance's response and Mr. Ronk's request for credit responsibility to give him the approval was far before 13.9, so that's what it says here in the conclusion. Therefore, I could not write the answer based on this conclusion. I may be far-sighted in some things, but I couldn't possibly know what the council members of Požega-Slavon County would do. But you come clean and you insinuate it and it's right under my nose. I'm supposed to be quiet now, too. But I'm telling you, you had, you have a problem today. You have a problem because you caught yourself in the net that it's 350 million and 270 million and you can call it as much as you want. According to all the methodologies, he cannot be greater than what the State Audit found. I'm telling you that with five, six million kunas as I said Požega-Slavon County can unblock and can function normally and you gentlemen are involved in a network of lies, and that's where I can't help you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72234	Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected deputy president Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72235	Mr. Minister said he was sorry that the SDP Representatives' Club did not refer to the ministry's proposal for a recovery. We haven't seen the motion for recovery that you gave or received. If they received the proposal with great satisfaction, they would refer to the part other than the statement that it might be necessary to resuscitate the county in a way that is unblocked, to ensure payouts for workers, to ensure regular action and to pay off debts. We support it, but let's see it in writing.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72236	Thank you. For the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja President of the Club of Representatives Branimir Glavas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72237	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues! On behalf of the Club of the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja, I will say a few words. It doesn't matter if it's 350 million kuna or 57 million kuna. It's important that these 57 million kunas, too, if it's that long, throw one county on its knees. This is proof of the misery and poverty of the area from Ilock to Ilova, and there are probably more counties in which there is a similar or approximately similar financial, economic and social situation. It doesn't matter if it's Bagaric or Ronko's fault right now, but it's important that the Croatian state has to intervene towards Požega-Slavon County and not just there because 85, 90,000 people of Požeko-Slavon County are not responsible for the situation in which it was led by the county by the people who ruled the county three, four mandates. And no one can absorb those who have managed this county in the past 12 or 15 years of responsibility. Was a debt of 57 million kuna or was a debt of 350 million kuna. This government has so far won the table in this term I think 3 audit reports on the state in Požega-Slavon County. All three audit reports in Požega-Slavon County indicated an alarming situation in Požega-Slavon County. The government had to intervene. Both the instruments of the rule of law and the institutions of the rule of law and other ways to address this difficult economic situation in the Požeko-Slavon County area. This government didn't do it. Why wasn't she working? For a simple reason. She was pushing under the carpet. She protected crime, protected people who were representatives of the political option in Požega-Slavon County because opening these unpleasant issues would bring out a lot of things that would not be commendable, desirable for the ruling political option. I've been on this side of the Assembly Hall recently. I have also often sat in the clubs of the parliamentary majority both in the party's oil and in the party's bodies. And I have often listened from Mrs. Maria Bajt, who pointed to crime in Požega-Slavon County, who fingered the head man of Požega-Slavon County, who pointed to the leadership today that the governments so recently party that was then and in opposition, but held power in Požega-Slavon County to what is happening in Požega-Slavon County. Mrs. Maria Bajt often pointed out this, and here I had a chance to read in one week where Mrs. Maria Bajt was being fenced from crime at the premises of Požeko-Slavon County. While not mentioning his party colleagues for understandable reasons publicly, she mentioned them recently at the closed clubs of the parliamentary majority or party meetings and meetings of party bodies within the Croatian democratic community, naming those responsible for this. Therefore, my dear gentlemen, the problems in Požega-Slavon County are obvious. And regardless of what is in this House, there is a tense parliamentary majority who will make any decision she wants because she will outvote and when she makes that decision, let her know that these problems will remain. But also let her be aware that she will not be able to cloud the golden valley of Požega County. I went to the county to hold an extraordinary election. I thought I knew Slavonia and Baranja. I thought I knew her problems. But when I saw that misery, that poverty, that apathy, that hopelessness in the places of the Golden Valley, that's when I realized that practically 80 kilometers from Osijek I don't know what's going on? The poorest spaces of once-rich Slavonia. And that's why these problems need to be solved. These problems need to be solved, not by trying to equate the responsibility of both sides with different tricks and political games. Mr. Ronko, as mayor of Požega, proved himself to be able to run one unit of local self-government. Mr. Ronko, in the extraordinary elections, has swept the Croatian Democratic Community. It is a small environment where people know each other and this spectacular victory of Mr. Ronko is not the result of demagogue stories and messages and demagogue work but the result of proven work results by leading the town of Požega headquarters and the centre of Požega County. Now what's he threatening? It is a serious threat that those responsible for the situation in Požega County try to find the formula to equate responsibility. To try to share that responsibility. HDZ won't care too much about Bagaric. Bagaric will be "Pedro" on behalf of HDZ. But in order to amortise, evenly share that responsibility, they will try everything to make sure that there is another "Pedro" on the other side, and that is Mr. Ronko. Everything seems to be done, and in this direction it seems that Mr. Rabbit has these days accused Mr. Ronk of participating in dishonest and immoral business related to some purchases of apartments. And for the prize, you'd get freedom. So don't be surprised these days if that happens. And if that doesn't happen, I assure you that Mr. Rabbit will welcome the trial in prison. Yes, from experience, dear sir, thanks to you in your situation, I'm daily in contact with people from the judiciary who know what's going on. Well, I also found out that he's trying to find another Pedro with Bagaric. Bagaric will wash his hands, I assure you very quickly. Because otherwise it can't be. So please nice, where else in the world has it happened that in one unit of local self-government cemetery goes under mortgage. I'm sorry, I think it's for anals, for some kind of Guines book of stupidity. And that's what happened. And who's behind that? Behind that today, behind these problems that are not being solved is the government. The government is punishing the electoral body. On April 6, this year, at the same time there were two pre-election meetings. The pre-election assembly of the Croatian Democratic Assembly of Slavonia and Baranja, with the holder of the list of Mr Lovric and a hundred metres away, the pre-election gathering of HDZ, from which the shrubs were promised and threatened. A combination of promises and threats. Carrots and beatings. That's how HDZ, if it gets trust, solves this, solves it. HDZ has not received confidence, but with it the HDZ government is not appalled by responsibility and by the obligation to care for Požega-Slavon County, but is obliged to resuscitate what its pests have done over 15 years. Ronko won the election, but he's not a magician for a couple hundred million kunas of dubiosis overnight, or 57, it doesn't matter at all. It's not his obligation, it's Ronkovo to draw the line and invite the institutions of the rule of law to do their job. And to the Croatian government, it is an obligation to resuscitate what its political option has left for those who have received the mandate, the trust of the electoral body in the extraordinary elections. The government cannot punish the electoral body because the electoral body did not support the political option. And Mr. Shuker, and the Osijek-Baranja County did not want to give consent to the 24-and-a-half million kuna task simply because there is another political option in power. You've been dragging around for a year, that's true. For a year you did not want to give consent to the task and Osijek-Baranja County did not have a single kuna debt. That's true. That's true, Mr. Shucker. [[That's not true.]] And therefore, if there are 4 billion kunas for Croatian shipyards, 4 billion kunas, at a time when 6-7 million euros, the dollars evaporate, there are as many millions needed to resuscitate the state in Požega-Slavon County and allow the county to breathe. Breathe, survive. Because today there was a more quality company on the premises of the Republic of Croatia with 50 million kuna profits. Therefore, the stories of the 57 million kuna or the 60 million kuna, the debate in this House, are completely unnecessary. Those who have led to this situation must therefore respond and the government is obliged and obliged to intervene and rescind the situation in the premises of Požega-Slavon County. That's it. So this is the position of the Croatian Democratic Union club Slavonia and Baranja. That is the attitude and we share the opinion of the initiator of this agenda point and we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72238	Corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72239	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Glavas said this government is protecting crime. It's simply incorrect, there's no evidence that such a claim would be made here in this House of Commons. Next, it has nothing to do with the county with the cemetery. Nowhere in any county there is a possibility that the county will be the founder of the cemetery or take care of the cemetery. You know who they are. These are local self-government units of municipalities and cities. So the county has nothing to do with the cemetery. And secondly, the debt is exclusively tied to 57 million kuna. As far as responsibility is concerned, the Government insists on determining responsibility if it exists at all levels. Thus, no one wants to protect anyone here and wants to establish the truth, and only the truth wants to determine the responsibility of those involved, if they participated, and what they participated in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72240	Second correction, Honored Representative Ante Bagarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72241	First of all, Mr. President, I can't take the impression of this turn that makes my recent friend Mr. Glavas. But let's keep it between us. First of all, inaccurately, Bagaric is not Pedro, Bagaric is Bagaric. And your finding that the situation in the Požega-Slavon County economy is disastrously not standing, Mr. Glavas. You should know and here I invite you to use the source of the Employment Service that the County is požega-slavonian somewhere in the golden middle, so 12, it's not good, but it can be better, but it's certainly not the last and it's not a catastrophic situation. Besides, that's what those six billion kunas are about, Mr. Glavas, invested during my term. It would be convenient to compare what was invested in your Osijek-Baranja County for your term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72242	Third Amendment, Honored Representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72243	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Glavas has made an incorrect assumption that I want to correct, which is that the findings of the state audit for the ruling coalition are undesirable and that it is placed under the rug. Namely, that's not true. The Croatian Parliament is unanimous, I would like to remind you, brought almost every finding of the state audit he has discussed. Unanimity decisions, reports in the published audits shall be submitted to the State Attorney's Office and the Ministry of Interior. These institutions shall be responsible for assessing whether there are cases of unlawful treatment at the disposal of money from the state budget or from the budget of the counties, cities and municipalities and in such cases, in accordance with their duties and powers, etc. And as for Mr. "The Golden Valley of Požega" and '90. I joined together with Mr. President Seks and Mr. Glavas in democratic change and created a Croatian democratic community, so I would not comment on some parts.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72244	HNS representative club, respected representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72245	Thank you, Mr. President. So after this speech by my colleague Glavas, I ask myself how many other affairs we will find out in the future when such similar things occur and when someone comes out of HDZ, how much more will we know and how much more will be heard about the functioning of HDZ itself. ... I can tell you, it's me, I was gonna say it like that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm young here and I've entered the Parliament, this is my first term and to be honest with you this debate today is so sad and so pathetic. Poor for the simple reason that a ball all the time flies from one side to the other, there's talk of amounts that, one about 300, one about 50, one about 5, I believe that if the citizens saw this and if they could see it, they wouldn't know if anyone was guilty, but they only knew that in the end they would pay for it. And I'm sure even so far in this whole story, someone's made debts, that's how it was for the bank's recovery, that's how the IPK was rehabilitated, and it's still still, you know, someone still makes debts, Victor Lenac. As a rule, no one's answering... And the Rijeka Bank. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] As a rule, no one answers, and the citizens end up paying for it. And this debt no matter how small it is, and whether it is small, whether it is great, is always great if it is made in this way, will eventually the citizens pay and not only the citizens of Požega-Slavon County who have been paying for it all along, but the citizens of the entire Republic because they will be resupplyed from the budget of all of us together. I know that those of you who have been in politics know very well what's been going on and I don't want to talk at all about what's been going on before this is about my mandate. It absolutely trusts me, I don't care, because I couldn't influence it, and this part of my mandate I'm trying to influence. There were stories here that Mr. Hebrang started it, that the prime minister practically had nothing to do with it and that some ministers weren't really against it. But I would remind you that most of the new things that have been made, meaning some strange and cloudy affairs, have mostly started from a session of the closed government. So this story of forgiveness of the debt "The Stone Ingrad" came from a closed session of the government, where it was halved and I would read it as it was written in the daily press, I would not read the whole transcript, but this is how it was written in the daily press: The transcript shows that Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, despite the warnings from Minister Marin Matulović-Dropulić and Minister Branko Vukelic, has been illegally extracting mineral raw materials from nature parks and the state, damaged 70 million kuna, pawned that the company "Kamen Ingrad" d.d. reduce the debt by 25 million kuna and make it possible to pay off in four wars. ... Well, I don't know, we should ask the government how someone can spy on them at a closed session. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Disengage the service that's doing it right now. The half-debted debt settlement deadline was December 31st last year. There were more of those things in the sessions, in the government's closed sessions. I would like to remind you of Bechtel and, by the way, Bechtel remained in debt to the state of Croatia about 200 million kuna for the same things that Zac remained for. So it's a stone extraction. The same closed session also discussed "Liburnia", which will cost the country a minimum of 700 million kuna and will again be paid by citizens. The Ingrad Stone is 60 million kuna, because it's not paid for in half or otherwise, so it means a total of 60 million kuna and I'm not counting any further, it mostly happens at closed sessions. And then I wonder, the SDP comes with a proposal that with such conclusions in this interpretation of the government's work and I don't see anywhere to be asked, to vote on the government's trust, if not on the government's trust then at least on the confidence of the prime minister, because it is evident from everything that the prime minister is deeply in this story about Požega-Slavon County. ... Mrs. Zdenka, I know we discussed Mr. Chacic here. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The commission was founded and the commission did its job, made some conclusions. But I also remind you that we have asked to establish a commission on two of your members, and this is about Mr. Eve Sanader and Mr. Miomir Zuzul where you did not allow it to be done. And that's why I'm surprised the SDP colleagues didn't ask for a vote of confidence in the government or at least the prime minister. It's visible from all of this that he's in all of this, and he's got a good part of the government. But I hope that until the end of the debate, something like this will happen. Because alone in these messages, I am, in any case, to rescind that debt. But these first two, the first two conclusions lead me to say you're stealing and the second, so you do the same debts, no one will answer, you'll probably, if you don't split that money up, but if you make a hospital, you'll still have someone and a monument in your town because you stole from the state and made it here, then change that mayor and nobody. That's how these first two conclusions work, because it's actually an invitation to steal, and you, no one will be to blame. And as far as these three last, second conclusions are concerned, we've made similar conclusions, and we've made similar conclusions in the last interpretation, and that was a warning to the government and the other institutions, the State's Attorney's Office, the State's Audit, I don't know who they all don't, that they work by law. To enforce the law. I mean, if for every robbery, for every theft, I'm going to be a mild incompetence that happens in this society, that we should call together, that we should interpret from the Parliament, that we should open up the assembly session and discuss it in order to tickle or tell someone, you have to enforce the law. Well, I don't know what kind of state we live in, then. Well, I guess it's the foundation of the rule of law to respect the laws. ... I also lived in HDZ rule and coalition rule, and to be honest, I realized what smart people said long ago that justice and justice had nothing to do with it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And with us, it's... justice and justice have nothing to do with either parties or reality. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I see you don't want me to just let myself have a normal discussion, so here I am calling on the SDP to, for the sake of the prime minister's involvement, and also the government to change this interpretation in fact to reshape it and demand a vote of no confidence to the prime minister. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72246	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72247	Thank you very much. Here, the honored gentleman has spoken several incorrect allegations. First, that the prime minister is familiar and involved in this affair. I was then Deputy Prime Minister and I can say he was only involved in so much that he insisted that we call and that we require the State Inspectorate to carry out an inspection within the framework of the anti-grey economy programme. The previous government didn't make that inspection for four years, so the debt grew to 70 million. We could've gone into the sand and not sent an inspection, so today would've been $150 million. Therefore, the government is responsible for carrying out the inspection, the government cut off the debt and made a reprogramme so that the company does not go bankrupt but to keep their jobs. If it's a government sin, then I'm happy to accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72248	Thank you. For the HSS club, distinguished representative Ljubica Lalić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72249	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs, the minister is gone, which I can do. Therefore, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, our colleagues from the SDP Club are opening a debate on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to monitor the implementation of laws and regulations and the legality of the work and conduct of units of local and regional self-government. Simplifiedly, through the debate, it is trying to find a solution to enable the work and functioning of Požeško-Slavonska County, but also to prevent any future cases that will occur because of the lack of constitutional law, but also the obligation of state authorities to monitor the legality and constitutionality of units of local and regional self-government. In this particular case, a different approach is seen in the concept of units of local and regional self-government. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia considers that the bodies of the units of local and regional self-government are independent in performing the tasks of their work and subject only to the supervision of the constitutionality and legality of authorised state bodies. That is the opinion of the representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party club. But it's not just an opinion, it's an explicit constitutional provision. Contrary to this explicit constitutional provision, the Government of the Republic of Croatia read only part of the provision and considered it to be quoting the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government – municipalities, cities and counties decide independently on the business of their work. In doing so, the government calls for the necessary decentralisation and the right to decide on its budget revenues. This right of independence in decision-making is limited by the obligation to manage, use and dispose of its assets with the attention of a good host. In what way Požeko-Slavon County or more specifically its mayor and then the ruling political option, which is the Croatian Democratic Union in coalition with the Independent List of the Government of Zeca, did not act that way. The State Audit Office identified a number of irregularities in financial operations and available financial resources such as: insufficient liability records... Thank you very much. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Insufficient records of obligations and claims, disorderly documentation, unsustainable use of funds of decentralised functions, lack of control and verification of the intended use of credit funds transferred to the County Roads Authority, procedures relating to guarantees issued, conclusion of a guarantee contract, i.e. insurance of claims, procurement procedures, unlawful lending, etc. That's the report from the State Audit Office. In its report, the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not at all dispute the findings of the State Audit Office, even if it confirms that the county did not establish internal control which was required under the law. However, by removing responsibility from himself, the government is calling for the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government and says the total material and financial operations of the municipality, the city and the county are being supervised by their representative body. And that is true, but we do not get an answer in the report to the question of what happens when neither the representative body performs its obligations nor when it makes illegal decisions. For the government, the answer may be contained in a sentence that I quote: "The units of local and regional self-government must bear the consequences of their irresponsible behaviour." In the case of Požega-Slavon County as well as in all similar cases, the consequences of irresponsible behaviour at the time of the ruling HDZ and its coalition partner, Government of Zec, are borne by the citizens of the county themselves. It is precisely because the harmful consequences of the progenitors of the legislative and executive authorities and their parties would not be borne by the citizens, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia gave the competent state authorities the right and obligation to monitor the legality and constitutionality. However, this obligation has not been carried out by the Government of Mr Ivo Sanader, and the report clearly shows that it does not wish to be executed in the future and thus sends a message to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that they are exposed to mercy and mercy from the progeny of politicians who will not work in the interest of the common good but of certain political powers, and the adverse consequences will be borne by citizens. The government that sends such messages does not itself work for the benefit of the general good but is also subject to the favor of individuals of their groups and groups. The government says, I quote, "In a concrete case, responsibility for the illegal conduct in Požega-Slavon County has primarily the bodies of the county that have not established internal control and control mechanisms and the division of rights and responsibilities for the conduct in the county," the quote concluded. The county's bodies cannot be freed from responsibility, and the vote was issued by voters when they made it so clear in the elections that they no longer want authorities in the county to be the Croatian Democratic Union. They didn't trust him anymore. However, the government now wants to punish this people who dared to say that they did not want those who worked not for their benefit but for the benefit of the Rabbit and who knows what other rabbits and rabbits. And only because of this, because of the desire to punish insubordination citizens, the government insists that the bodies of the units of local and regional self-government are independent and neglects the obligation to monitor legality and constitutionality. The bodies of the units of local self-government are independent in making legal decisions and decisions that are consistent with the Constitution. No one has the right to make illegal decisions unpunished. The law enforcement authority is responsible for the implementation of the law, and in order to ensure the implementation of the law, it has the right of supervision which, in the case of Požega County, did not want to be used because it protected its own personnel even when they acted illegally. As a result, she refused to disband the representative body although she knew that the authorities of the county had not established a system of control and supervision without which there was no quality management of revenues and expenditures, property and county obligations. The government protected the existing government, but was ruled by citizens in the elections, and now those citizens are being punished by a government that protected the illegality of the work of its constituents. The government says, I quote: "Internal systems of control, surveillance and audit operate in advance, preventing irregularities and damages from happening, and externally backwards, establishing irregularities when they have already occurred. This is one of the key reasons why financial difficulties in which units of local and regional self-government are found and generally for irregularities in the business of units of local and regional self-government cannot be the responsibility of the ministries and other authorities in charge of supervision under the law," the statement concluded. This is only partially true. The timely identification of irregularities committed in accordance with the law of sanctioned perpetrators of illegality shall prevent future irregularities and their adverse consequences to be suffered by citizens. And that is why, the funds intended to maintain and modernise the roads, so for the benefit of all citizens, went beyond "the Stone of Ingrad" or more specifically, to Vlad Zacu, and probably to rabbits. Just by abandoning the supervision and sanctioning of the then mayor, Mr. Anti Bagaric was enabled to issue guarantees, to lend loans, to over-indebted the county all in favour of the Zec government, and to the detriment of the citizens of Požeko-Slavon County. The lack of supervision and sanctioning by state authorities has caused a lack of financial resources quite irrelevant in which amount, but due to the lack of these funds, the county cannot continue to function. Not only will county employees not be able to receive salaries, but the citizens of the county through it will not be able to meet their needs as provided by law and constitution. Of course, the question is ultimately raised not only who is to blame for the situation but who will compensate for the existing damage and who is obliged to remove the causes of inability to function. The government says that it was the citizens who chose the county authorities who made illegal decisions and who acted against the law, so let them bear the adverse consequences, the inability to meet their needs through the county. Citizens repented of their original sin in the last elections, denying their trust in HDZ, and what will the government regret their sin of failing to exercise control and timely prevention of further harmful consequences? It can only be done by removing the reason for the inability to function in the county. That's exactly what this Interpellation is looking for, and not just that. It is required to prevent such occurrence in all future cases. By refusing this Interruption, this Parliament will send a bad message to the people, that it supports the will of the people of the political powers, and the adverse consequences of this birth will be borne by the people themselves. This message is not a message from us representatives from the Croatian Peasant Party and therefore we fully support the Interpellation and the proposed conclusions. And finally, on the basis of all the corrections made to false allegations, it is now quite clear to me that there is no leaving Slavonia for a terrible situation in which she is all the way up until, unfortunately, some Assembly representatives of Slavons lie to themselves about how good it is for us there.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72250	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72251	Mr. President, indeed an incorrect quote after each other. Says a respected colleague, the government punishes citizens, the government protects illegality, etc. That's not true, my colleague. What the government was looking for, it asked for the truth to be established, it asked for responsibility to be determined. There's a review report. And you can't, all day long here, you're giving the wrong facts. You're making a lie. So learn to read because 57 does not mean 270 and 350. [[Intruder: So learn to read.]] If you knew that, you'd be much better at what you showed. It is therefore absolutely incorrect that the government participated in these processes in which the county participated. And why did the previous government miss out on surveillance, why she wrote off the debt, why she gave guarantees, why she let the county be in charge of it, we could hear about it many times today.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72252	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure esteemed representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72253	Article 204 has not been corrected. And did the former government make a mistake, and then there were MPs who knew what was going on in Požega County but did not launch a proposal or an interpretation of the investigation, which means they themselves covered such a work. ... I said 204. You can control it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72254	It appears that, 204, it is injured that the agenda of the Assembly session is determined as a rule at the beginning of the session. It's a lapus. My colleague meant 214th, but he didn't hurt his rules of procedure. And another correction by the respected representative, Anto Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72255	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable representative Lalić except for her misstatement and judgment here and let it remain with her, but I answered to correct the allegations. She said the guarantees of the day were in favor of the Rabbit and the Rabbit. Well, she obviously didn't even read what the State Audit found here and there is clearly seen for what warranty days are, for economic and social infrastructure in favour of exactly Slavonia Mrs. Lalić, not those liars who say she's good and not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72256	Club representatives of HSLS respected representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72257	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! This just before, what a couple of these replicas reminds me of that famous statement, says, "Our political situation is stable but our economics isn't going very well." And I think it might as well be applied.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72258	... Vladimir Bakarić, 70. [[You can't hear the speaker, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72259	And I... Todorovic... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Exactly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I want to believe that politics is a serious and responsible job but I'm afraid that from what we're hearing today, the election campaign has begun and that no funds are actually chosen at all to try to change or maintain existing political relations. We can say it's legitimate, but it's a big question whether we're dealing with those problems that make us here and the people's representatives, which is why we're sitting here in parliament. This fact that the situation is actually going and tending to an extreme bipolarisation is something that I don't think is good for Croatian politics, and I'm afraid in this way it won't solve any problem in Požega-Slavon County but not only in Požega-Slavon County, but in fact not in any Croatian municipality, city and county, and apparently this interpretation of the 60 people working in the county, who didn't receive the salary that they still remain in the situation of quite their great uncertainty. Interruptions are a serious institute and I want them so much to understand, it's just a big question is whether the address book has always been affected, whether in fact all the governments would not be who they are, that my colleague Bagaric had the honour of being longer than I am at these functions concerning local administrations and self-government since 90th as a presidential council until 93rd a continued mayor to these last opportunities, or troubles in that county. And certainly, what's going on from this interpretation is that it didn't happen yesterday, but that it has some history. And I think that it would be really a little bit of this honesty in our policy wouldn't be bad if we actually admitted that we weren't always great ourselves and that actually, and that some decisions could have been made somewhere three, five or ten years ago and because they hadn't brought the thing to where it came from and obviously that this large dose of politics in this case is something that will record this debate. I think that in fact in this interpretation there is one another in my opinion a key problem, and that is that it is high time that we have one thematic session whether this number of counties is optimal, whether the number of cities is optimal, whether the number of municipalities is optimal, whether these really tax bonds of the Republic of Croatia can all be alimated. It seems to me that in 93 when this dramatic change occurred in the structure of the state administration that after that we are actually going from mistake to error. The first was and only the county had not changed, but the number of cities and municipalities was growing dramatically. And I'm saying, I'm afraid that our financial, material substance that should follow all of this is simply not able to track these administrative needs, and then that's how it happens to me after this dramatic thing happens that then we find that there's actually us, that some of the counties have gone bankrupt, so then we can listen to something that doesn't actually belong to one serious political discourse that one other mayor doesn't know that county will buy, offers for it a single kuna. And here we are today also witnessing that a mayor is completely free already running his pre-election campaign and allegedly has a job in that county. My colleague, Pejo Tragovević, is nosing my head. But at the same time, the same local self-government leader of one big city is campaigning in another neighbouring country, and it's also considered very normal and there aren't any, and we don't really get too excited at all. These are major problems just in the functioning of our local self-government. In other words, local self-government is really a space from which it can act completely as a free shooter, it can be part of a parliamentary campaign for the Chancellor, it can be part of a campaign in the neighbouring country, and we should applaud it all, that is, this moment may be more or less appropriate for us, and then after two, three, five or ten years we will once have some interpretation of exactly what happens in 2006. I think that these are actually the things that we should, which this interpretation actually hastened in some way, acceled and all the situations that we need to determine, exactly how this relationship between the central government, the finance ministry and precisely those finances that are being run in the units of local self-government and administration. Some again, and then what do you have? Then you have that situation that if there's a good one, if there's a good political relationship, then some things are being solved for you. And then actually, even that responsibility isn't so important or sometimes when it belongs to another political option that you actually have a lot of problems to get to the elemental means to function. Well then, if you're even less in charge of 20%, then it's tolerated and then sanctioned. That's why I say what there is, which there are too many policies in things where politics isn't really a place. And that's the fate of the Croatian self-government. It is her true destiny that you really depend on which, which political flag, which the parties are winding in the Ban Courts or which a combination of flags here on Mark's square. And it happens from mandate to mandate, and no matter how much we want to act differently, and we promise that we'll behave differently isn't really at all, it doesn't matter if you have a good relationship with the finance minister or if you don't have a good relationship. And then in the end I say it results in these breakdowns. ... I hope it goes to me to say stupid things. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, I mean thank you, no, I've been, I've heard nothing but nonsense so I thought it was going to me. [[Intruder: The quote was correct, we were doing stupid things.]] No, I didn't recognize myself. No, I agree, I agree. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72260	Gentlemen, gentlemen!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72261	I've just said very clearly and I haven't spoken in, I haven't said that just as part of the coalition government also does that part of sin not apply to our component and I agree with you that we worked, that we worked between the inga and the good stuff and the stupidity. The same phenomenon "Zec"...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72262	From Paul Pabory, the book "The History of Human Stupidness" is an excellent reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72263	That's exactly what I'm And right now, the problem is, it's stupid because it doesn't hurt. Because if it hurt, she'd get rid of it. It's not like a toothache. When you get a toothache, you go to the dentist and you take it out or you fix it, and stupidity doesn't hurt, and then you actually think you're doing great things. Or "The Rabbit" phenomenon. We're all, we all knew in this country what we were doing? Podkin's villages, stadiums, hotels. It was coming, it was taking pictures. The man was changing his political uniforms because he was just feeling this problem in his... business that it's good to be good with political powers and now we're actually surprised when the story ends the way it ends. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's not easy to be and I don't want to be here to be anything judge. We must not prejudge anything because we allow the institutions of the system to work independently of political influence. And the democratisation of this society, modernization, europeanisation or better said normalisation and stabilisation can only go away if we behave that way. If there's too much politics in our performances and we're lighting up just one problem or one segment of the problem, and the other we don't see what we're saying and our stupidity is not going to solve the problems. That's why I'm interested in this moment, and it would be good if the finance minister, regardless of this legal-economic Skopje of all the issues that are being raised here, were being asked here. I'm really not a legal or economical expert that I can read this to see if it drinks or doesn't drink water, are these numbers correct or not accurate? That's where you talk with the big ranges. But to say something about how these 60 people who are either guilty or debtors, who just because they work there, we need them, we need to get rid of them. And I would appeal to us to run away from these extreme situations when the nation really needs to be divided. When a pre-election political campaign on any issue that actually makes it difficult to solve these, those and other problems in society. And that just exists, that out of these two solutions, these black-and-white techniques there are some, and some other, and some other solutions and some other ways. So I'm saying, this interpretation can be an introduction to the topical debate of what are our counties? How old are they? Is their number optimal? What about this regionalisation of Croatia? This is supposed to be what the European Union is asking us to have, we can have two or five counties so that we can define ourselves here and indeed reduce on the one hand this administrative pressure of the administration. Because I'm as many as 110 thousand residents as Požega-Slavon County allegedly counts... E OK, but that's, that's Split. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's Split, so on. Is it true, does it really have to have all those services that it has or is it really possible that we finally see Croatia differently here so that we can say that it is two, three, four or five regions? Are we afraid of these concepts? Are we afraid of these implications? Or we'll talk about the sheriffs every once in a while, so yesterday we had a chance to see that "Open" show that man seriously thinks the sheriffs are positive. He translates it, connots it as a positive, positive thing that in the history of the Wild West they played a positive role, but the sheriffs in the 21st century certainly have another connotation far from the positive. Are we really going to contribute to the creation of such governors, sheriffs, local powers we speak of and then from time to time we will have them on the agenda of this Croatian Assembly and we will judge them in one way or another? It certainly needs to be made possible and it is necessary to find a modus that the county is functioning but obviously that the moves which, as I am now some observer from that relatively 100km away Osijek can follow, there is in fact everything, and at least the will to solve it properly, and at least take care of those people who have not received the salary for several months now and who are certainly not in our position and who are certainly at risk of existence. And once again to say so I repeat it and it barely... almost as one "light" motive for my discussions when it comes to local self-government, I fear that this number of municipalities when each actually advocate thinks that in his term he must bring at least one municipality into his electoral unit or cities, and the county does not grow up that this really has to change because this kind of disproportion that exists in, when you observe statistically you have on one side a rich Zagreb which is extremely rich and on the other hand you have a whole series of spaces that are extremely poor and then creates a political problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we won't be able to say that the political situation is great and the economic situation is very bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72264	That's what Dr. Bakaric said. ... On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Ivica Racan. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72265	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. I want to be brief. First, I call on colleagues and colleagues at the SDP Club who have applied for the debate to give up the debate. It's a wasted effort for your players, so it's kind of that song. So let me have two or three more things. I'm satisfied with this debate and at the same time sad. Satisfied, because we have once again, even though we have not been asked to make an argument about how the ruling policy is being run today. Regrettful, however, because I had modestly hoped that it was possible from this policy, of this political approach that is demonstrated today on the issue of the settlement of Požega County, that it could still give up on the political approach. What kind of political approach is that? The damage was done largely in Požega County, Požega-Slavon County. It was made during the previous government. There are huge commitments, debts, 57 million, but if we talk about commitments, the county's burdens are far higher. Whether it's schools, hospitals, roads, or unfinished roadwork. The burdens for a small and relatively modest and poor county are high. What do you government gentlemen do, once again demonstrating your approach? When you can't justify or cover up more mistakes and bad things that have been done during the previous government in the county, when you can't justify and the responsibility of the previous mayor, it's very important to show in advance the responsibility and guilt of the new county government democratically elected, the new mayor put somewhere on the same responsibility and cover for this situation. Yeah, that's the approach you taught us in the practice of your authority, and I was hoping it was possible to step down from it after all. You accuse those who warn of the problem of these counties of politicizing. Maybe there's some and strong... a political word. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Man's style, on various political sides. Maybe I can understand that, I'm never too hard on that, but there's a disqualification of all of us who are warning about a problem that needs to be solved together. That was the intention. And you on that, you're qualified us to be politicians. If we were to politicize or even bring this whole problem to circus levels, I wouldn't quote the prime minister because he's gone. That's the approach I'm talking about. Well, you could have made it incredibly easy for politics to be gone. That you helped to get rid of things right away, that you sat down, that you talked, that you didn't blatantly reject a legally elected mayor who asked only for scrawny talks in the government. Just because I understand. You probably got a little mad at the outcome of the vote. He didn't suit you. I know what you promised during the pre-election period, everything will be done in Požega County. I said then, not knowing the outcome of the election, I said I hope that at least 10-15% of those promises will be realised, it would be for the sake of the county's residents. I wish now that at least 10% of those promises, since not your authority there was chosen by the will of the people, but some other, other parties, would be realised. ... Yes, I am now talking about your practice in HDZ and your relationship with the authorities of other parties. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You're talking about some things being done during the previous government. But the moment you got the state audit report that pointed out very harshly and clearly critically what was going on, from breaking the law, which was all unauthorized. It was absolutely necessary to intervene. You had plenty of time for that anyway. The government was supposed to intervene. ... You can pollemize with me and say whatever you want, and I won't be as angry with you as you are with me. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So I want to say, I think that you wanted to help, help, as you could give permission for the post and Rijeka, not wait a year and a half, not interfere in the responsibility of Osijek County. You could have done more things if you wanted to, efficiently, and yet you have one criterion that we understand. Someone's closer, someone's on the move, somebody needs help, someone shouldn't be helped if they don't have to. And you teach us in Croatia, gentlemen, that by proper conduct we will force pressure. It's the worst thing you've done in Croatia's political life. Unfortunately, here's the example you're just proving. Yes, we have tried in a peaceful way, without tightening, every honor to colleagues from other opposition parties who teach us that we should have concluded even I don't know, and with the trust of the Prime Minister or the entire government, no. It was not our intention to disturb political life to this extent. We just wanted to help, and since the impelation, ours has been a long time. Help solve problems in a county and make it normally pro-funkicon. Well, in this case, it's not just that this county can unblock itself, and you know ministers as well as I do. It's about something more important. It can be unblocked but this county has to solve these people's life problems in the next few years. With what means, if these are debts and burdens. How? And there was supposed to be help and there was a proposal to help together but you didn't want any part of it. ... You, first of all, the Government. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So I want to say it like this. When I asked my colleagues and colleagues at the club to withdraw their debates, I simply asked because today it is clear you will do everything to show that for this situation the co-responsible and the hair chosen, if you can't fix the failures of the previous government that brought the county into such a situation, you will try to show that they are dirty and others. It's not a good national job, it's my message to you personally.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72266	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72267	Thank you. Mr. President, my colleague Racan said we're accusing in advance. It's not true that we accused in advance, that's what the SDP was just doing. In advance, he has accused and ruled and it is not true that we are accusing those who warn of the problem. We are aware of the problems, but we want to tell the Croatian public that those who took responsibility after the elections did not take advantage of all the mechanisms at their disposal, that the situation in Požega-Slavon County repairs and did not use all the mechanisms to unblock the county's account so that the county can function normally. Those are our claims. We claim that this situation in which the Požeko-Slavon County was brought today should not have come to this and, unfortunately, have led to your steps and your politics. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72268	Second correction, Honored Representative Anto Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72269	Thank you, Mr. President. Says distinguished representative Racan that an existing set of authorities in Požega-Slavon County wanted to talk peacefully and negotiate with the government. I'm saying it's not. Because how else do you interpret the statements that the ministers are jillkos, that the noves with their heads stuck in the sand, that the circus team, that the criminal miles as well as the position of the county assembly here are clearly written and that after a good conversation in the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the College of Mayors, then shared lessons with logic that County is požeko-slavonian and its leader is formerly responsible and for an external debt which is skillfully covered by Ivo Sanader through the County of Požega Slavonian. It's that peaceful way and the desire to talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72270	Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare Ozbolt. She's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain. She's gone. He's losing his word. We still have two, three MPs reported. Minister Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72271	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'm really sorry to hear some of the words here from the esteemed Mr. Racan. First, Mr. Racan, as far as the River is concerned, for the truth. You know that in the last year of your term of office, it was impossible for 10 months to borrow a unit of local self-government. You've had a problem with the deficit, and you haven't allowed borrowing in the last two months. That's what you need to know. Your government has introduced a bill on budget implementation that units of local self-government can be charged up to 2.5% of total income. That's what she inherited and this government is fighting the deficit. And the total possible borrowing of local self-government units is about 300 million. ... It's not Mr. Racan, I can document it with all the budget rebalances in the 10th month of the amending budget law you've allowed units of local self-government... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That year I was the mayor of the Great Gore, and I know very well. [[You don't understand.]] And this... I'll tell you about Rijeka now. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Why am I going with this? To argue what I'm about to say and I appreciate you as a correct politician and I think you knew this so you wouldn't ever say this about a pay phone, which is why I want to tell you. So the overall possibility of borrowing units of local self-government is 300 million kuna, all 525 units of local self-government, Mr. Vojko Obesnel, the mayor of Rijeka has come to me to be in charge of 300 million. I can say it openly and he can confirm it, I said Vojko can't give 300 million because if we give you 300 million what will happen to other cities and counties in Croatia. But since your investment cycle is longer, let's settle for three years at 60 million, you have the opportunity through public companies, so much will be given to the City of Zagreb and so much will be given to Split as three of our largest cities. And since he didn't want to agree to it but asked for 300 million, we agreed at the end of last year that we would go on this model and the city of Rijeka is one of the first cities to have a debt solution this year. This year 60, next year 60 etc. that I can combine my projects and so... So much for the city of Rijeka. [[You don't understand.]] There is no one right in this country, no matter what political party it belonged to, to stop one unit of local self-government because there is another political party. And believe me, when we give solutions to borrowing units of local self-government to manage that principle and all units of local self-government are this year that have filed the request, they get it. But I'm saying, it's not right to say that this government works that way and it says here, the minister didn't give the river the responsibility because there's an SDP, it's simply not true. That's just not true. A colleague, Linic, gives an interview this summer, Shuker hates Rijeka, has not given the debt of 300 million. So what I would say is Linic hates Velika Gorica, he wouldn't let me be in charge until the 11th month in 2003. Well, that was government policy, and I pray nicely. At the time when a solution could be obtained, the city was given the same thing as Rijeka. But why charge like this? The other thing is, it's not true and it's not good to ignore what real obligations are. If we ignore what real obligations are, then we cannot make an analytical basis for how to solve the current problem and how to solve it in the future. If I'm not mistaken, Mr. Racan, I said in my presentation that there are three guarantees from three schools, and I'm sure you won't say that these schools shouldn't be made in Požega-Slavon County. These guarantees have not yet been spent, nor have they been spent in the Pleternica, nor in the Great, nor in Jaksic. So they're not even activated. It will be activated in 2007, 2008. And today in the morning at the current hour and afternoon I said that I talked to my colleague Primorec in the budget next year, in the budgets and projects next year, we make a part of the funds for Požega-Slavon County to help her finance this general project, these are schools. That was said twice today in this assembly. So for some 17 million kunas of guarantees issued I have offered a recipe in the future to be resolved, not to burden the budget of Požega-Slavon County in the future. You can't say it wasn't offered. You can see that from the phonogram, my debate this morning and afternoon. So much for these three guarantees. We stayed with the guarantees that were issued during your government in 2002 and the loan that you issued, not you personally, but your coalition government, 11 million. ... But look, Mr. Racan, but that's at the moment when we ignore these three non-payment guarantees, that's 90% of the county's obligations. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm talking about facts, facts. I said we'd settle these three guarantees that didn't come for payment. I'm talking to you about the facts that are at this point, so it's a commitment during your government and what should have happened to her right now. The mayor was supposed to talk to the banks about reprogramming. Mr. Racan's county, which has 16 million kuna budgets in four months, would not be charged 7 million by forced payment, on top, but would be charged a few hundred thousand kunas because the three-month war is 480 thousand kuna. It's a quarterly war. For this 24 million kuna loan where both the Union and the Ministry of Finance memos and everything else, you can see that people in Slavonska Banka were ready to reprogram the loan and it is not at all controversial. You have the same thing, the County Road Authority has received 44 million credits. 24 is the guarantee of the county, 20 million is the judiciary of Croatian roads. And now watch what happened. At the time of the implementation of this 24 million, the execution of 20 million Croatian roads was to take place. However, Croatian Roads Director held talks with Slavonska Banka and the Croatian Roads are not blocked. So what was wrong with Ronka when he became mayor to try to talk to business banks. Nothing else. So do you really think it's in the interest of someone in this country that one unit of local self-government doesn't work, but Mr. Racan, I can't unblock Poželjka County, I can't unblock it. The first steps must be made by Ronko. I suggested a model and I said it and I'll do it again, maybe it's not ideal, but at this point it's unblocking the county, the county can work and I said I could get rid of three guarantees that come next year. The County Road Administration, look at the results of the tax inspection board, reached the obligations of 24 million credits in relation to which the county and 20 million loans paid by the Croatian road were blocked. So the County Road Authority has no obligation because they're already passed somewhere else, but if you double-count 24 million then you come up with some oho-ho hundreds of millions. It's another thing. 80 million requests from the County Road Administration towards Stone Ingrad. Well, the Stone Ingrad is in bankruptcy. The County Road Administration has applied for bankruptcy, when the bankruptcy is completed they will see how much they will be charged. Well, look, it's your story now, but you can't, you're personally talking about 350 and 270 million. I'm responsible for saying it's not nearly that much. What the State Audit found is that, the government has given the principle model as can be solved, so the first step must be done by Mayor Ronko, if he will, if he will not, it is his problem, but I repeat, to accuse this government of being this way and that it is that way, so listen, I would also be able to speak out of some of my experiences, but I just don't think it makes any sense. But I say for the fifth or sixth time I say a model of how things can be solved. However, I unfortunately must say that in the case of Rijeka and in some cases, and even in the case of my negative response to the task you have received false information. You've got the wrong information, because if there's already a loan and if it's already registered as an obligation created at some point, this government doesn't need to re-determin the decision that someone can be in charge of the same loan. And guarantees don't need government decisions. That's what you've introduced, that's you and the Budget Implementation Act, that the leaders of the local self-government unit are obliged to report on the guarantees issued that the Ministry of Finance could control but at the same time, colleagues, remember the discussion of the Budget Implementation Act, when I, as Minister of Finance, insisted that as far as the public private partnership is concerned, that this provision should be put in place that the Ministry of Finance has to agree as much as it is possible to create obligations just because some local sheriff doesn't create obligations for the next 25 years, so if someone comes behind it that they won't be able to do anything anymore. And who was the greatest opponent of that provision? Your club. Why? And why if it's all legal, then why wouldn't it be controlled? But I'm saying, on behalf of the government, I offered a model to get rid of it. You, if you want as a party that has proposed an impellation, we can sit down and make a deal. Let me say that I had the right to say that the conclusion from the last county assembly of Požega-Slavonski is neither in the spirit of democracy nor in the spirit of agreement, because if someone wants to negotiate with someone, then they can't call him a criminal. And secondly, there's no one to negotiate with. Well, we're not the warring sides. And finally, here was the story about who was supposed to do the State Audit. All of us, you know well that the State Audit report is coming to the Parliament. The government and the ministry only come to the part concerning the government, but the joint report, the report from the State Audit, comes to the Parliament because the Assembly is the body to which the State Audit is subjected by control. And the Parliament makes a decision if a local self-government unit, if some budgetary beneficiary of the state budget has made a mistake, makes a decision on what to do. The government has no authority over that control. So, the Parliament makes a decision and therefore you can't amnesty yourself for these 80% claims that you... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72272	Okay. Now there's a few more left... A good part of the MP, he withdrew his applications. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I suggest that those who still have to take their own out in a short version. Dear Representative Anto Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72273	Thank you, Mr. President. I am sorry that the colleagues are leaving, they would probably find new elements from this debate to accuse the former mayor of Bagarić and create a fama or rather a public lynch as he robbed, robbed, carried away, etc. So let me just say, in the spirit of this report, which I prepared thoroughly, honestly, honestly, what was actually a problem in this Požega-Slavon County. The public was pumped with losses, I would say with a desire for certain means, of 50 million kuna, 90 million kuna, 170 million kuna, 240 million kuna, and there was a famous 355. They do not know colleagues but we knew from the Czech public at one point and over billions, because I was probably also responsible for the external debt of the Croatian state. This is what I'm trying to say is that the recovery program that the county's headship has made up has really been the sum of pears and apples. It's summed up something that can't be summed up. Obligations and claims on several occasions. If it is a loan from the County Road Administration, it is also collected there as a commitment and added to the county's blockade as an obligation and accumulates it and brings this famous 355 million kuna figure. The State Audit report made it clear how much debt or how much liabilities the County of Požega-Slavon has reached or failed to achieve. 57.7 million kuna. For the truth's sake, I'll do it again here. For current expenditures of 5.3 million kuna. Activated guarantee of 23 million kuna bile, I round all the figures for the sales company "Kamen Ingrad" in the amount of 7.7 million kuna charged. Credit for the construction of roads with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia under the leadership of Mr. Ivica Racan and here, the political force that calls me here in the Parliament and accuses me. The Ministry of Agriculture 2 million kuna, and the rest of the 5.7 million kuna, which confirms the findings of the State Audit on page 53, are obligations for material costs that the county had in 4 months in which I was not even mayor. Also 5.3 million kuna liabilities through the decentralised assets of the Croatian state were also created during the period when I was not mayor. I will remind only my colleagues, I was relieved of my duties 6.2. when he entered the scene of the Commissioner of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Not to enter the genealogy of the story who, why and in what way allowed those and unloved events in Požega-Slavonski County who were, as well as how the misdemeanors were legally elected power and how many principles there were in yield. Not in the problems we had in the ranks of the Croatian Democratic Union but other political parties. I'm not going to tell her by the name of who she is, and you know probably who she is and their problems were in their own ranks. Therefore, commitments under the activated guarantee to the County Road Administration amounting to 23 million kuna have blocked Požeko-Slavon County. If there was a good will, which shows also the State Audit report, the deal between the newly elected mayor and the story here that the blockade occurred before the election, I hope I have denied the news. That's not true. The county was blocked on 10 May 2006, meaning several months ago, and the reason for the blockade, I say, was the request of the director of the County Road Administration on the orders of Mayor Ronko to launch bankruptcy and bankruptcy proceedings. Which was clear, the very green light of Slavonska Banka to block the county with the total amount. So, it was not a good will to close the deal, or to extend the loan rate of 2 million and 240 thousand kuna, or to keep the county from being blocked. Journalists and the public may also testify to the appearance of the gentleman who submitted, and who, unfortunately, is now in the investigation process, who submitted to our Czech public in front of the Croatian TV cameras, where he was taught 3 sentences to read in order to initiate bankruptcy proceedings with his performance. There are witnesses about this, and you can see for yourself that this is the option. Let's get back to bail. As some people know, there is a huge stumbling block around the county's loan, where the county signed a guarantee as co-founder of the County Road Administration of 24 million kuna. I'm just gonna do a little resuming. The County and County Assembly, seeking to build its road infrastructure, has defined one programme precisely by stock along with its county road administration. Then at that moment, a box of about 65 million kuna. By public tender, she took the job down to 55 million kuna, and 55 million kunas were to be closed, financial closed, through Croatian roads, County Road Administration and County Požega-Slavonska. Here Minister Shuker told the truth, the Croatian roads closed and gave a guarantee in a 20 million kuna loan, the County Road Administration took over a 24 million kuna loan to which the County was a guarantee, and the county itself in 11 million kuna, which was granted a guarantee, which was granted the consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to close 55 million kuna. This is where you skip telling the truth, and I have proof of it. That in the 24 million kunas taken over by the County Road Administration, the County Road Administration is taking over the amount that was sufficient for its own 12 million kuna budgets, namely 11 million and 960 thousand kunas, taking over units of local self-government proportional key, roads in each of their own areas. So, among other things, the City of Požega under the leadership of then the mayor of Zdravko Ronka, 23.12.2002, provides a guarantee on its roads of 2 million and 800 thousand kuna. Where that guarantee went, what happened to it, so did I. But I could probably figure out the truth, you probably can't. But the question is for him to tell you what happened. But I'll try to define that answer later. Under two, the bonds issued failed, and they were given to build school sports halls. I hereby make it clear that none of these means, as Mr. Ronko says, have been robbed or taken away or I don't know who else he shot. He gave for building his infrastructure, social infrastructure such as economic infrastructure in the area of roads. Since I'm running out of time, I'll just mention a few more things. We are calling on all the findings of the State Audit for the County of Požeško-Slavonski and interesting that no one is invited to the 2003 State Audit report for the city of Požega. This audit report has never seen a representative body or seen it. They find audits by the County of Požega-Slavonski or the audit find for the office of the mayor and the county chiefship representative body means the assembly has seen in all elements the level of the county. And she could have initiated out of her jurisdiction all the actions we're saying today that she's rated to have such elements. Mr. Ronko and here is today in the debate mentioned, I can deny here my colleague who said, "The government commissioner has welcomed 18 binco bonds.". Here, for the first time since all the peripetia and I'm the man who seemed to be able to endure a lot I've come up with a list of all Mr. Zdravko Ronk's issued notes. 48 bonds have been issued. If you take that the minimum amount was 500 thousand kuna I won't guess these amounts where there's no bill written, you can count on it to be 48 to 90 million kuna, so please let it be known. It's a summary of everything. Today here I am experiencing this as a courtroom for me, something I wanted to do in my county through the construction of social and economic infrastructure, experienced criticism that this area is lagging behind because here I wanted to do so because I did not make this area lag behind other parts of Croatia's homeland. I simply do not stand and reject any insinuation and lie that has been told and as a citizen I will have the right and I will certainly use it for those and fellow parliamentary representatives, I think of my colleague, Škare-Ozbolt, who on one show "In srid" without any confusion, says that Mayor Bagaric, instead of in prison, has squandered four budgets, is still at large. Also, I will now file a criminal application and with the foundation and trail of this criminal application that is put to my mind for all those who are slandered, by showing the reputation they have done, caused my honesty, caused damage to my family because today it is not really easy in the problems in which society together is moving through this society with a feeling that people through the media have won walking among them a thief, a criminal, and it is also supported by the criminal miles of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It shall be my civic duty and my duty. You don't need to help me so much, you don't need to take care of me. I think that the government's interpretation and responsibility for this is inconclusive, it's very clear from the minister what the government's jurisdiction is, which is the jurisdiction of the attorney's office, which is the jurisdiction of the audit in all the reports it has made and could deliver to the attorney's office. And I pray that these matters are not judged by the Parliament especially by individuals, especially those who want to politicise over this conviction we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72274	Thank you. Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72275	Thank you, Mr. President. Indeed, today, the Parliament was turned into both a courtroom and an investigative centre, but unfortunately it turned most into a hall in which unspeakable lies, slanders, meals, and incorrect data were uttered, unfortunately. I just want to tell the facts. The first fact that 80% of the liabilities that we are dealing with here today and the commitments set out in the State Audit are the liabilities of 57 million kuna. 80% of the commitments were made during the rule of the former coalition government, during the SDP rule, 80% of those commitments. It's a fact that no one can escape from. Another fact that is not only us but also the unions that county workers should not be hostages to the politics of the new leadership in Požega-Slavon County, they should not be. Why? Because Slavonska Banka was ready to discuss and unblock the jury accounts of Požega-Slavonska County and allow the normal functioning of the same county. And why wasn't that done? It was not made for one single reason, because there was no political will of the newly elected government to talk to the same Slavonian bank that we have here according to my predecessor, Bagaric, we could hear that it was actually asked by that same bank to block the account, not vice versa to unblock it and allow the normal work of the county. It is also a fact that, based on the Implementing Law and its Article 204, it was possible to react and not allow the county to be blocked at all. That's the facts. So there was no political will of the newly elected government represented by Mayor Ronko to solve these problems because she took responsibility and actually swore in the campaign that she would solve all the problems of Požeko-Slavon County. It is still not really clear from all these discussions that it was necessary to deceive the public for months that the commitments of the county were 270 or 350 million kuna when they were far less, and I stress once again, 80% of these commitments occurred at the time of the former coalition authorities which they knew and participated in. So it is indeed political needs, the politics of the leaders of the newly elected county government in Požega-Slavon County and the obviously daily political need to start an early pre-election campaign. But I want to point out, we are not running away from the fact that there are problems in Požega-Slavon County, that there are illegalities and irregularities. But we leave it exclusively to the competent institutions to determine who did and what kind of irregularities and illegality and to answer for it. So we're not running away from those facts. We want that if there is a basis to sanction any irregularity and illegality. However, if it is what the SDP really wants. If you wish, I will refer you to the County Road Administration in Dubrovnik-Neretva County. Never in the last 7.8 years since the SDP ruled down, and now the government along with the war profiteer in our county has never reported the work and the County Road Administration has not come to the County Assembly. Never. We were looking in that... As much as we had power in the county along with our partners, we asked for a state audit to come to the County Road Authority. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And she hasn't come yet. I hope that after this public call he will come to the County Road Administration and to Dubrovnik-Neretva County as well as to Požega-Slavonska. Well, let the public hear what that SDP government has tolerated in that County Roads Authority. In which the director has been illegally standing for 3 years as director without any confirmation, without anyone's approval. In which there was only one employee who himself was both a performer and a work surveillance officer. And so on and so forth. So if you really want to deal with irregularities, if you want to solve the problems that exist, then you really need to solve them everywhere and in the same way. And that's what we insist on, on which we insist and what we require of the competent institutions. We ask for the State Audit to determine the responsibility of all those who do irregularities because we want to make irregularities correct. Because we want there to be no irregularities in the further work of such institutions or units of local self-government and no road administration or any other institution. What to say to the fact that we were only in 2006, that the County Road Administration had aligned with the Road Law that was passed several years earlier. What do you say to that? Except that it's all so much criminal that we're really calling it in, we're publicly calling on the State Audit to determine what it's about. The position of the Croatian Democratic Community is therefore clear. ... All irregularities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But don't judge in advance, don't tell lies, don't muddle people with no real facts, no facts. Let's determine what happened and admit your own mistakes. In this case and admit that your mayor did not take advantage of all the powers at his disposal and did not do everything in his power. He didn't. He simply did not want to do what was in his power to fix the situation in Požega-Slavon County. That's the facts. These are the facts, irrefutablely presented here today and by the government's representatives Mr. Shucker and the government have nothing to do with it. What does the government have to do with this? What does the government have to do with this? So the government didn't sit in the County Assembly and make decisions and raise hands. This government did not sit in 2002 and 2003 in, on the other hand, the square here and make decisions on who would get guarantees. Well, that's what your government did. So these are the obligations that occurred at the time of your government. 80% of those commitments. That's what we're talking about today. And these are the facts that no one wants to escape or can escape from. Unfortunately, it's unfortunate that you've deceived the public about the height of your obligations. Unfortunately, it's unfortunate that you've deceived the public that this government is involved in these irregularities or that it's protecting some kind of crime and illegality. That's the truth, that's the truth, and here's the thing I hope this debate has really shown today what it's really about when it comes to this interpretation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72276	Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72277	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. Well, here's my colleague, Bagaric, and my colleague Matusic, who helped me to significantly shorten this exposure, but I have to say a word, two about interpelation. Interpletion would be more realistic if a review of the duties of all the county road administrations was given. Because they are all in charge, they all have guarantees, guarantees, bonds and so on only unfortunately in Zagreb County are the roads of disaster, and at least they are made there in Požega. What you should say a little bit is that Mr. Ronko, normally we heard it didn't do, saved the county, was a good manager and so on despite all the commercials but we've heard it before. And all over the story, it's actually the Ronko-Zec relationship. It's also incomprehensible to me. And how much Mr. Ronko believed "The Stone-Ingrad" could see how many bonds he had given them, and also ordered from the same company even two apartments. I don't know what's wrong with the SDP. Everybody's been buying two apartments lately. Very easy to get to real estate, very expensive to sell. Especially the chain of commerce is there. It is true that guarantees require the approval of the Ministry of Finance. But there are too many thorns in the SDP. They slept for four years, so let's just say they forgot during their reign that the Ministry of Reconstruction was raising the loans they wanted without question. They spent as much as they wanted, but that's a different story. The SDP's "spin" doctors are not interested in Ronko and Bagaric normally but in the government. It's government work. And this untrue piece of work in the guy, the type of interpretation certainly didn't finance a single... or placed Madison because the level was shamefully low and unprofessional. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what strangers don't finance. What part of "The Stone-Ingrad" of the dubioza was created, "The Stone-Ingrad" of the dubiozas, created because of the business as hard as it is to say because of football. We have a rich experience with "Youth 127" that almost ruined the economy, so as soon as the economy dropped out, the football team disappeared. What I still have to say is that the SDP president is calling for an end to the debate. Interesting. He's calling for an interruption. Did they say everything? Did they charge everyone? And I have to say on behalf of the members of the Committee on Local Self-Government that we are highly manipulated by the President and that we are offended by the way he put it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72278	And on behalf of the HDZ Club, a 5-minute debate was held by respected Vice President Darko Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72279	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, I've called in these five minutes inspired by five minutes of demagogy. You may be angry, but my opinion is that of your SDP president, Ivica Racan. Why did you "reternize"? My belief is and the belief of the HDZ Club is deeply that you "reterated" because you could not politically score at this debate. After all the arguments heard by the government's representative, the finance minister and after what the SDP president has said here that you have been persistently trying to help solve this problem for two months, and this aiding is done by blowing up debt, media swelling, politics, because how else do you call all this how you help rather than politics? And so I hold that the only reason you're retarded in your discussions is because you can't make a political point. And you're looking for a way out of that situation. I will tell you on my own example, I was the mayor of Lika-Senj County in 2002 when the president of the SDP Club said: "I never said that. The government in Croatia is all Croatian." But in Lika-Senj County, HDZ was in power. At national level, there was a coalition headed by the SDP in power and when the Gospić hospital was in a very difficult situation and I will tell you so much that I am once as a mayor, the truth can be checked out to buy a bag of potatoes to avoid the blockade of the county and the Gospić hospital. My colleagues at the time, and here is representative Emil Tomljanovic, who is here as a witness, told me to block the county, to block the hospital, and then we'll call the central government of the SDP in 2003 that she's guilty of all this. We'll put 200 people hostage and use these hostages to solve a political problem. I came home thinking and in the circle of the rope family I said this, so God holy, Dad how can you think like that. These people believe in you, believe in HDZ, believe in you that's exactly what's not going to happen. And I came tomorrow, and I talked to my political friends, no, we can't let the blockage of Lic-Sen County and the hospital happen, are we taking 200 people hostage, 200 families times three, that's 600 families. I thought it was my political responsibility not to allow the blockade of Lika-Senj County, that I didn't have 200 hostages. You took it. And that's punishable. Hostages, employees of Požeko-Slavon County to help you with them, to be a means of resolving your political goals. That's inadmissible. I think you'll get a fine in the next election about it. And not only that, you wanted as hostages taken and taken to school, both children and employees of school and users of social institutions and hospital users. The government of the Republic of Croatia dear friends, ladies and gentlemen, did not allow you to do so. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72280	For the SDP club, respected representative Slavko Linic, five minutes of debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72281	Thank you, Mr. President. Just a few words about demagogy. Mr. Racan made it very clear. You don't need to argue because HDZ policy when you can't hide the problem, when you can't put it under the rug, when you don't want to solve it, is muddying others. Three parliamentary debates by a councilman, only three. Both Mr. Bagarić and Markovinović and Matušić were only dealing with how to muddle. And he was right. And it's not demagogy. He and his words were confirmed by HDZ representatives and that is why I do not participate in this filth. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72282	Corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72283	Col. Linic incorrectly said that our discussions were exclusively muddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72284	Peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72285	If showing you facts and truth is debauchery, then we can talk about defilement. But we only talked about facts and truths. You are obviously not even able to accept facts and truths about Požega-Slavon County.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72286	And Emil Tomljanovic, the correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72287	Well, it's an incorrect quote, I listened very carefully to Mr. Bagaric, from word to word. Not once did he insult or insult anyone. But he tried to make arguments, facts and show even here documents. Incorrectly, it is incorrect that it was any debauchery, but only an argument to the situation in which the county was found.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72288	And the next correction, Honored Representative Anto Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72289	Thank you, Mr. President, thank you, fellow MP. He practically responded to a part of it in correcting an incorrect quote. I have not mentioned your policy or your demagogue or your demagogue in my report in any way, so you have indeed wrongly stated that I have done so.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72290	For the HSS club, five minutes' debate, the respected representative Željko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72291	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. If I have to talk about who inspired me to argue like my colleague just before, I really can't tell where inspiration comes from. But what I expected as part of this debate, and here I stayed until the end, that through the interpretation we would try to bring our attitudes closer to each other, that we would try to find solutions to Poželjka County. But here we spent all afternoon and part of the evening, and from that we're too far away. I found the ministers interesting in your observation, and I believe that a good part of your proposal is acceptable. He was likely able to fit in to solve the problems that had arisen. However, here I from a party that has not been conditionally involved in this story, I do not want to hear that the former state government is guilty of the debts created and that it is for the lack of desire for the problems to be solved by the current local regional government. Well, it's probably the guilt somewhere between that, probably even the current state government could get a little more involved in that story. How? Well, the solution is very simple. There is a current budget reserve from which you gave 4 million kunas to solve mosquito problems, to destroy mosquitoes. In this county, they should obviously destroy the rats who have seized the property and should allocate more than 4 million. I don't know how much at this point. But if it's true that 57 million kuna is the current task of Požega County, your suggestion that they reprogram it, so let them reprogram it for 10 years if the bank agrees with it, then it would be in any case and even for a period of 15 years, a refund of about 30% of the original budget, because we know what it is, somewhere 14-15 million kuna. It's impossible for that county to be... so much credit obligation. I expected you to make a proposal in this regard to see how you can go from decentralised funds, how you can help from the current reserve, and how you support projects for next year, but in the new budget or possibly in budget rebalancing if it is this year. It was one whole story that I was here, and the HSS in the Parliament wanted to hear. And once again, if there was any money for mosquitoes, it could probably be found in both the current reserve and the rats.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-27-0.u72292	Rats, mosquitoes. They're both not healthy. ... Then I close the debate on this agenda point. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Continuing tomorrow with the agenda as follows at 9.30 p.m. Please, let's get on with it. My colleagues and colleagues, please join those who are not. The result? 81 we have a quorum. We're going to the vote. First, in accordance with the proposal of the working bodies and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting on the next conclusion. Interpellation on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the exercise of control over the implementation of laws and regulations and the legality of the work and conduct of units of local and regional self-government. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 63 for closure, 6 abstentions, 15 against. The majority of them have reached a conclusion.
