ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67274	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In front of you is the proposal for a final text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Disruption in Sports Competitions. Following the debate in the first reading in which this bill was supported, there were also certain objections. I will just say briefly at the beginning that from the remarks made in the first reading, we have adopted that remark that no ticket buyers are recorded by name and last name when buying tickets, because we believe that this might be too much of a blow to human rights and freedoms. While the other comments made in the first reading were not of such a nature as to be more serious about the proposed text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Disruption in Sports Competitions. As a major sports competition is approaching, which will include Croatian football teams, and I would just like to say abroad what were the basic motives and reasons for proposing this law. In particular, I would like to point out that we did not propose this law because of the upcoming World Cup, but we proposed it because, even after its adoption in 2003, it was observed that certain illegal behaviours were still present and that the existing law did not regulate in a good way, or not sufficiently effectively, these illegal behaviours. The main reasons for this were that the measures, i.e. the fines, were closer to the prescribed lower minimum, that few of the safeguards imposed were banned from attending the sport competitions of only 36 fans, so I would say that protection measure. And the particular problem is the implementation of a given safeguard measure, since the applicable law does not oblige a person who has been granted a protective measure to prohibit the presence of the police, so that we have practically not had the ability to monitor those persons, or the offenders who have been granted a protective measure to prohibit the presence of sports competitions. We therefore propose an increase in fines in order to make the application of the sanctions under the law more effective and more effective. But perhaps the biggest news is that a fan who has been given a protection measure to forbid attending a sports competition no later than two hours before the start of a sports competition must report to the police station and leave his address at which he will be staying during the reflection of the sport competition. And you can if you don't respond and punish with a fine of 2 thousand to 10 thousand kuna, or at least 10 to 30 days in prison. We also envisioned this bill to increase the responsibility of sports competition organizers who should introduce constant video surveillance, and the recorded video is required to send the organiser to the police on request if there were public order and peace violations on the sport field, or other illegal behaviour. If the sports facility is not equipped with video surveillance, fines are provided for the organizers of the sport competition. It is also proposed that organisers act at the request of police to take security measures and increase the number of directors. If the number of directors, or not taking the prescribed measures, is not increased, fines are increased. And it can also be prohibited to hold a sports competition unless the organizer acts on the order of the police on the application of safeguards which, or security measures for which the police assess should be applied, which are in accordance with the law. The biggest possible news is that a database of offenders and events is being introduced in sports competitions and the possibility of sharing them with national alliances, i.e. with the interior police departments of other countries. It is also more accurate, i.e. more precisely defined as being considered a sport competition, i.e. a space to hold a sport competition. So the extended application of the law to other means of transport, not only to public transport, since a large part of the fans comes to sports competitions and personal transport, but also to fans who make... on their return from the sport competition. We believe that such proposed amendments will allow police and other competent institutions and bodies to be more effective in treating those people I would not call fans than offenders, who do not go to sports competitions to enjoy sports competitions but to show passions that do not belong in sports competitions. This has also been shown by the development of fan tips in line with the Council of Europe's recommendations on the implementation of the European Convention on Violence and Misbehaving of Watchers in Sports Competitions, and in particular at the football matches that were brought in Strasbourg in 1985, which are conditionally shared in three categories, that is category A, which includes those really real fans who go to sports competitions for monitoring, peaceful monitoring of sports competitions and who do not make any incidents. According to all statistics in Europe and the world, it is about 80%. It's so-called. Category A. Category C are those conditionally said fans who make up so-called the emergency core, which is the initiator of conflict with members of other fan groups and participate in the most difficult forms of illegal behaviour with elements of violence and can be seen as being hooligans. It's so-called. I again point out that this is a categorization according to the Council of Europe's recommendations on the implementation of the European Convention on Violence and Misbehavior in Sports Competitions, so this is not the categorisation and typeology of the Ministry of the Interior but rather the typeology adopted in Europe, such fans who go to sports competitions I would say exclusively or only because of causing riots and because of conflicts with other viewers is at least 1 to 2% of what statistics and data show in Europe, and I believe that the relationship is similar in Croatia. While the third category or category of fan B is conditionally said fans who primarily go to competitions because of sports motives, because of cheers and are generally calm, but who can lead for those in category C and sometimes participate in incidents and events in competitions. Otherwise, the Council of Europe resolution of 6 December 2001 adopted a manual on international police cooperation and measures to prevent and combat violence and incidents related to international sports games that provide for the exchange of information on fans, including the exchange of personal data, such as lists of persons who have been banned from going to stadiums, photographs of those persons, etc. taking place in accordance with national and international legislation. I am now reading this because I am sending a clear message to our fans to behave culturally and civilizedly because we have received a clear message from the German MUP that no one will be prevented or defended from entering Germany, but in the event of a breach of public order and peace, in the event of savagery, the German police will act uncompromisingly. I repeat again, all fans are welcome, but in the event of inappropriate behaviour, the police will adhere to their powers and act uncompromisingly. The Croatian police will not provide the German MUP with personal data on registered misdemeanors because, under the Law on the Protection of Privacy of Personal Data, we cannot and because this law has not yet been adopted, and it provides for the possibility of setting up records of offenders and it will give us such an opportunity to supply and exchange these data. However, part of our fans who participated, i.e. were even guilty of incidents in Malta and Germany, were certainly recorded by the police of Malta and Hungary, and it is very easy that the data on them would be delivered to the German MUP by those countries where our fans were recorded as violent and as perpetrators of the crime, or those who clashed with either the fans or the police. So I say there will be no problem when our fans who participated in the riots will have no problem getting into Germany, but if they start acting inappropriately, if they become violent police will most decisively, vigorously apply those measures that apply in all European Union countries towards bullies. Once again, the adoption of this law has not been timed to the World Cup, but we have come to it last year because we have seen that the law as it was not effective enough in the fight against violence in sports competitions, and we believe that if these proposed changes are adopted, they will be able to introduce a lot more order in sports competitions and that sports fields and objects really will be places where people who come exclusively and only in competitions to enjoy sport will be able to cheer for their pets and where there will be no sports fields, or sites of strategy where they will express the lowest passions and where individuals will express the worst passions in this and the safety and freedoms and freedoms of other people who have come to see sports competitions in peace. Other proposals, i.e. other remarks, I said, were not adopted because we believe that they would not contribute more effectively to the basic purpose, i.e. the meaning of the proposed changes, which is that we get a law that will provide police and other competent institutions with the possibility of being more effective towards those who, or the presence of sports competitions, abuse public order and peace, to commit crimes, and above all to endanger the rights and freedoms of those true fans who have come to sports competitions exclusively and only to monitor what is happening on the ground. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67275	Thank you very much. The Committee on Law, Family, Youth and Sports? Internal policy and national security, President of the Committee, Honored Representative Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67276	Dear Mr President, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security held at the 70th session on 1 June 2006 discussed the final proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Disruption in Sports Competitions. The members of the Committee shall be informed of the reasons and interests for which the adoption of the law in question is proposed. The proposer points out that the proposed legislative solutions seek to have a more effective impact on the fight against illegal behaviour and riots in sport competitions. It also states that there are certain differences with the proposal for a law that passed the first reading in the Croatian Parliament relating to the area of sanctioning perpetrators of the most difficult forms of illegal behaviour in sport competitions as well as to the area of enforcement of safeguard measures against perpetrators of the infringements. Furthermore, it notes that this legislative proposal provides for the extension of the obligations of the organisers of the sport competition to take measures to prevent riots and violence in sport competitions. The Committee supported the position expressed by the representatives of the Government of Croatia as it estimates that the proposed legislative proposal will have a more effective impact on the safety of viewers, competitors and other participants in sport competitions. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Disruptions in Sports Competitions in the text as proposed by the Proposer of the Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67277	Thank you. The Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system? President of the Committee, Honorable Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67278	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament at the 57th session held on 1 June 2006 discussed the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Disruption in Sports Competitions submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee discussed the Final Proposal of the Law on the basis of the competences set out in Article 57. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In the discussion, the Committee found that, in accordance with the observations made by this Committee on the Proposal for a Law, the applicant did not install in the Final Proposal a provision that prescribed the keeping of records of the tickets sold or allocated in such a way as to record the identity of the persons to whom the tickets were sold or assigned. In this regard, the Committee supported in the debate the solution set out in the final proposal for the Law. After the debate, the Committee voted mostly, meaning 8 votes for and 1 abstentions suggested to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Disruption in Sports Competitions.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67279	Thank you. The Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government? I'm opening a debate. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67280	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. I think we're approaching a good law, however, the clear law should be implemented. Our clubs can hardly implement it without the authorities of the repression being as effective as possible. When I talk about the organs of repression, then I don't just think about the police, understandably, that I'm thinking here and the courts. What's the point in this law? So let's call them risk games video surveillance. Someone will say rightly that it's likely to be a sort of incursion of civil liberties. The question is whether we can limit his civil liberties without a Supreme Court order. As a rule, they probably shouldn't, but it's similar to banks, it's similar to savings, it's even similar to churches, the Parliament or some other institutions that are all under video surveillance that we don't even talk about. We all remember this last controversy that's being run or run around this Intelligence Control Act. When we were all, so to speak, under quotes, we got up on our backs, when it turned out that someone could at the bar or what I know, somewhere in the stadium, etc., monitor us. What's video-supervise down your own kind of surveillance? Tracking, recording, I don't know, how do you like it? However, to be completely open. I'm 100% for this measure whether it's football, whether it's handball stadiums, whether it's water polo pools, I don't know, basketball stadiums, because there's probably no more effective control of a misdemeanor than this method. On the other hand, the technique has made progress to this extent that today it is likely that several thousand euros can cover an entire stadium of, I don't know, 50,000 places. Finally, as the secretary of state mentioned, this is also the mandatory UEFa 2004 instruction. However, such a measure should certainly extend to the parking lots around the stadium and to the places where cheerleading groups pass. The second question is, will these videos finally be treated as evidence? It's another thing now, but no one clearly does mess himself up so you'll probably get through one such video surveillance and get a witness. I agree with all those who think that the wrongdoers or those individuals should be excluded from these sports competitions, but they should also be prevented not only by fines, but also by carrying compensation for damages, for example, for destroyed buses, trams, cars, stadiums, someone's cafes, private other property, etc. In that case, or in such cases, the State should be extremely ruthless. More specifically, if it fails to prevent damage and the damage occurs, then the State should clearly comply with the Law on Mandatory Relations and other legal regulations and make up for it. If the State were to start to compensate for the damage, it would likely be interested to apply, under quotes, a kind of repression that does not occur. Individuals should also be prohibited from coming or going to competition abroad and should also be insisted on a unique database of all European hooligans. The stadiums, probably the vast majority of us agree with it, would have to become places of fun again, places of entertainment, Sunday night out, and not wildlings where, for example, stadiums come to watch not what happens on football, handball, etc., terrain. On the contrary, what individuals perform in the stands of these playgrounds. Today, Europe is going so far that, for example, German police are coming to the Croatian-Slovenian border so that they would already rule out Croatian, Serbian, which I know Bosniak or some third fans not to call them hooligans. The Germans for the World Cup count that they can face incidents of about 15,000 English hooligans, 10,000 Dutch, 10,000 hooligans from Poland, 6 thousand hooligans from Italy, 5 thousand hooligans from Serbia, 4 thousand hooligans from Ukraine, 5 thousand Croatian hooligans from Croatia, say 15, Croatia 15 times smaller than Italy, there we say... Which is certainly not good for us to compare it with others. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what it says. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's what five thousand reads here: "German police at the border with Croatia." On the border with Croatia in "morning" of 4.6. Among other things, while I am on this article, he is extremely interesting and I would like to quote the following: "At the border crossing of Obrežin with Slovenian police control of passengers and traffic is recently also a representative of the German police in uniform. A policeman on the sleeve of a green jacket has a blue ribbon with the inscription on the shelf and yellow stars of the member states of the European Union and helps his colleagues in the work at the border." A little further along the same text states that the Ministry of Interior recently announced that during this year's tourist season, police officers from Slovenia, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Austria, Germany would be in mixed patrols at highways and major tourist centres. They would not have operational powers, but would have been helpful to their citizens in the event of traffic accidents when perpetrators or victims of criminal offences, etc., etc. Not to quote again these predictions of the German police about the number of hooligans in the world championship I originally quoted. It is also clear that according to this information, our officers will also be in the cities where the Croatian team meets, and that they can help Croatian fans on the other hand. However, I would like to believe, as the secretary of state mentioned, that the shame from Malta or Hungary will not be repeated, i.e. Maribor when our fans, under quotes, demoted the stadiums or water polo pools in Maribor. More. Where? ... In Kranj, that's right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I also advocate a unique database of European hooligans to protect others clearly from our own, but also to protect ourselves from their hooligans. The secretary of state said the Croatian police would not supply personal data, but even if they provided "personal data" under quotes on such misdemeanors, I doubt it would be contrary to our laws. However, what particularly delights me in this legislative proposal is Article 39(1) point 4. In fact, Article 39 literally states that a learned fine from a thousand to 10 thousand kuna or a prison of at least 3 days to a maximum of 30 days will be punished for the violation of a natural person who, point 4: "During a sports competition he sings songs or throws songs to competitors or other viewers whose content shows or encourages hatred on the basis of racial, national or religious membership or some other specificity of Article 4. sub-paragraph 5.", finished quote. This should mean that there will be fewer insults to those other colors of the skin, those of other nationalities, those of other faiths. This should also mean that not only alcohol will be taken at the entrances to stadiums, not only will these rods of pyrotechnics be taken, but probably Ustasha caps. Whether or not we will see it now, but this norm has been provided for by other laws, but it is not against the law to present one such regulation in this legislative proposal. Perhaps more rigorous in the context of showing such one, under the quotes "status", these provisions should also be incorporated into the Penal Code, and all in the context of incidents that permanently occur not only in stadiums but also in our streets. It is enough to mention that on Saturday, it means that four, five days ago, two young men from Zagreb with cowardly crosses on their shirt have been beaten or beaten by a Zagreb rabbi, and I want to believe that our police have the names of those persons, that they will be known to the Croatian public and that they will probably bear certain conventions. As far as I know today, the country's president, the prime minister, has also held certain talks with representatives of the European Jewish associations, among others probably mentioned the case of the Zagreb rabbi. The rest of this law has been seen more or less. Otherwise, according to these tables in 2003, there were 42 fans injured in the stadiums, 2004. 46, 2003, 10 police officers were injured, in 2004, 6, 2003, 6 buses were damaged, 4 trams, 1 car, 34 cars, 2005 were better. 9 buses, 8 trams, 11 cars, etc. were damaged. Another statistic. What? ... Tramway. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Come on. The other statistics here after this intervention will no longer be read, but here I advocate that whoever destroys that bus or that tram pays for the damage. I advocate the norm that if the city doesn't ask the police for the name of the perpetrator, it can't, in order to ask them for compensation that they can't get a proper fee from Croat Insurance because it should in some way become the basis for the city to make a damage claim to these often and minor perpetrators. It is clear that the insurance obligation must exist, but it should also introduce the city's obligation to follow the law in a way that prosecutes these wrongdoers. This law is certainly better than the existing one. First because it may prevent insults by nationality, on one condition that our police and our judiciary are extremely repressive in this regard. And secondly, because we're going through surveillance video that the police have been doing so far, and we see that no reasonable person has ever objected to getting one record of who's doing it in this country. Apparently, there are no more than a thousand 500 hooligans in this country, so I don't know why they're not removed from football, etc. The stadium. All known but unfortunately not enough is taken to submit, for example, only 502 requests for some measure from a warning to a prison sentence, were made in 2005. 27 warnings, 5 paroles, 223 fines, 10 prison sentences, 21 safeguards, 6 educational measures and 863 fines. So it's not like nothing's been done, it's not that the police aren't doing anything, but the truth is, these measures seem to be not enough. It would help if parents in some way "carried" instead of a child to make up for the damage on that bus, on that tram, about that burning wagon or a demoted cafe. Clearly, it is often or generally done by people who are of age. They're not kindergarten kids, but if someone were to start "materially chasing" them, there might be less violence in our stadiums. A father can't tell one of them and live in the same household I can't tell him anything. First, he must take care of him because he has no job, no apartment, etc. And on the other hand, it's the same thread that's already listening to it break and so on. Well, then pay up and let's see how that individual behaves afterwards. All in all, the law has certainly said correct, we are approaching a good law and so much so that even before here I am the beginning of the world football championship and the provision should be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67281	Thank you. It's on behalf of the SDSS Club Mr. Representative Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67282	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I'm going to say a few things on behalf of the club that make me think this law should be supported and that it has a quality to support it. I will also be free to point out something that remains not perhaps as the content of the law but as a task or as a commitment, or as a problem that can probably continue to appear at what needs attention. What's here is well set aside in the next two things. First, there is an increase in sanctions or sanctions that are likely to be necessary and can have a better effect, sanctions that one must remember in a way that learns not to do so. And of course that's good and that's saying one reason or the first reason why this law should be supported. The other thing that's here also seems to me quite well understood, done, connected, is that if we happen in such events we take as a series of actions in the context of events that have previous time and events after that event and we tie it all up to one whole, it's also something that makes sense and what needs to be taken into account or what needs to be followed, or what ultimately is the criterion to assess whether someone has produced unacceptable behavior or not. And the other thing that connects to this is this issue of the observation, record and monitoring of individuals who are prone or who produce unacceptable events. It seems to me that both of these things, of course, could be talked about, that it can be better solved, but it seems to me that the law takes that into account, that the law does, in some ways, link it together, and that it reads the intention to follow it all the time, that it wants to monitor those who produce unacceptable events. Those two things, the sanctions, and what I just said was a good reason to support the law. Of course, I don't think anything can be solved that way or that there are no more events and jobs to follow up on, fix, take, but certainly what I said is the reason that we at the club have a view that the law should be supported. Now I'm going to say two, three things that stay kind of like the need to keep our attention to that. First of all, it belongs to this role and responsibility of the organizers of sports events. We have also in discussions on the board and in discussions earlier in some way potentiated the role of organisers as one who ultimately is responsible for the incident. This is also important because it seems to me that organizers do not go into it by realizing that they also bear the risk of the consequences that can occur in a negative sense. Those who run sports clubs, those who organize events, it seems to me that this issue of risk of unacceptable behavior or not taking into account or accepting it on their backs, or leaving it in some way in the last place. They just don't treat it the way we set it up with this law. There can be talked about manipulatives, there can be talked about profit, there can be talked about other things, but this question we answer for all the effects of the event and the positive ones we will boast about and the negative ones we will be guilty of. It must fall on the back of those who organize it. I am not convinced that the organisers will accept it as their commitment from the first and the very fact that the law should be implemented. It's just being built. This is what people who operate clubs must ultimately build awareness and commitment around themselves that it is the right thing to do and that it is the right thing to do. The other thing that seems important to me, and it's kind of out of the scope of what's formally covered by the law. Not allowed, I dare judge the next thing. Unauthorized actions at a single game are very often just spilling frustrations from the overall social atmosphere to one place, to a suitable place where I do not know in the form of what kind of explosions occur. This means that we must also see it as part of a total social atmosphere that is unacceptable, with which we cannot be satisfied. Which we need to put our finger on and treat. And of course I'm fully aware of it. It's not just the police that can handle it. I can't even solve the repression. I can't even solve sanctions and a judge for violations. I can't solve the truth for the will either, but if we have this kind of spillover, then it seems to me that we have an obligation to follow it and actually repairing the social atmosphere as a whole, if you want, given that we're in this place repairing the overall political atmosphere, and that, as we often say, we get to the point where we have a political will that doesn't happen anymore. When we do, I think we'll get this atmosphere, too, that such spills in an unacceptable way don't happen anymore. I probably won't say anything new if I even said that these events were once susceptible or suitable for political manipulation and used or used for some kind of political manipulation of this or that, at one level or another, I'm not getting into it. And I believe no one is immune from that. But in that place, all of us here and in some way we bear social and political responsibility for this kind of event. One more thing at the end of what I'm saying is that in sports events happens to highlight totally unacceptable attitudes that offend some groups of people. Some kind of people, some feelings. Some feelings. A little sooner or later when we talked about it, then it seems to me, I, you can judge or anyone can assess whether it's a drastic attitude, but an outpouring of hatred in the stadium to an extent that goes beyond what I can say is enough reason for someone to say, "Stop, it has to be interrupted." I, it's, it can be my sense of measure. It may be my taste, but it seems to me that such a measure would send a message that it should not happen. I don't think it's a measure of one stand, one man, one move and so on. But it's known, we all know what that measure is that is totally unacceptable and muddying all of us and muddying the country and muddying the whole society. Now, that, I repeat, so I agree with this law that we can't standard it all in a way that's just like X-rays, so we know what the recipe is. There are a lot of things that we need to fix below as part of the social atmosphere, or we and others like those who are responsible for this atmosphere, but we must not forget that, as many of these events, I repeat the spilling of bad examples from the overall social atmosphere that we have to treat. And that's why I'm going to conclude it the next way. We'll support the law as a way to make things better. I think it's a good instrument. It takes a little more than the law to change the situation, and we all have to take part in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67283	Thank you very much. One correction, Mrs Zdenka Babic-Petricevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67284	Mr. Vice President, colleague of the Gaits. I do not think nor is it true that the reflection of the stadiums in Croatia are a reflection of the overall social situation or society at all in Croatia. Unfortunately, in the stadiums, what is happening is not happening, and I do not justify what is happening, not only in Croatia, it happens in the European and all countries of this world. I don't think it's even an outcry of hate. It is such a situation that I hope to put under control if all those responsible in stadiums do their job and this situation will decrease but cannot possibly accept that it is a reflection of society in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67285	Thoughts of opinion. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Antun Prussia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67286	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here's the second day on the agenda in this assembly is sports. In front of this proposal for a law that's in the second reading today, we discussed the Sport Act. I'm experiencing it and I'm trying to look at it positively. And I understand the concern of some colleagues who have expressed doubts about the debts of professional clubs, but it is because of the fact that we live unfortunately in a country where bribery, corruption, crime is still corrupt, and then the fear is justified. However, I believe that there must come a time when those good legal standards in practice will indeed be consistently implemented and therefore this fear is expressed in action. I deliberately didn't want to report for a debate with the first law because I come from a sport that today was qualified as a black seagull or a white crow, but I'm trying to think positively about the previous law. And I believe that sport deserves a two-day debate in this assembly because sport and sports activities are a very important segment of every society. Sports, for me and for us at the SDP club, is this noble human activity that develops relationships between people, builds bridges among peoples and sometimes politicians destroy them. All the good and noble sport that carries with it cannot undo the negatives that are sometimes infiltrated in sports movements, whether at sports sites or alongside it. Unfortunately, there is one part of those who do not belong in sports, those who have strayed into sports, who are not in place on or on sports grounds, those who have crawled into sports for the sake of some of their goals that have nothing to do with sports. They're not fans. They are not rooting for their national species, nor for their club, but rather harming their country, their club and their city in general. Speaking on behalf of the SDP club, we have already said at the first reading of this law that the SDP club will support any proposal for an act or action that will enable the establishment of order and normal relations on our sports grounds, which will allow for regular, no incidents of any kind of monitoring of competition without riots, no various forms of violations, violence, or crime that arises. We must also be aware of our responsibilities from which we cannot be exculpatory, simply for the reason that sometimes we ourselves have given cause to these unfavorable events. Let's just remember that sometimes, some of us gave primitives the support because it was the object of an attack that was, in contrast, black or white. We only remember in June 2003 when Croatians, under quotes "cheers" at the European Water polo Championship in the final match with ex-Serbia-Montenegro, caused riots that shocked not only the Croatian but also the world public. Violence is true then verbally condemned. But when the law was passed in July 2003, and earlier, the opposition at the time tried to reciprocate the whole thing by trying to locate the main culprits away from ours, under the quotes of "cheers". At that time, it tried to give up to cheerleading groups, saying that even citizens' freedoms are limited by law. Apparently, some other winds are blowing today, and it's good for them to smoke. Violence should be eradicated even by means of coercion. Violence of any kind is always just violence and nothing else. And there's no excuse. Today Sanader's government must prove to Europe that it is able to control and punish violence and racist outbursts. That's why this copernican turn in approach, that's why there's no such thing now, under quotes "understanding" for unloved events at sports resorts that have nothing to do with sports, and that's why some true sports fans at a wide port are bypassing stadiums and halls. So be it. In this area, which aims to introduce order at the sports resorts of the SDP club provides its full support. Because the primary goal is to establish order, and when it doesn't go differently then by means of coercion, because the beating has also grown from heaven. I also want to say that even the existing law was no obstacle to more effective conduct. But the question is whether there was any political will to apply. And that ineffectiveness of the courts doesn't even speak. Namely, that the application and implementation of this law was not consistent and was not a dynamically feasible drop as expected, because if we have a situation that was given in the explanation that it was filed around a thousand 355 requests to the courts that were acting in relation to the requirements that were filed, and only 749 were resolved then we notice that almost half of these cases were actually not resolved. And the fact is that one of the essential measures that can contribute to solving problems in our sports competitions is precisely an emergency, or haste, or even the action of law enforcement courts on the spot that could and should solve these problems. Therefore, the arguments given in the section can be accepted. However, the existing law was good enough if it were as prescribed and if we were more effective in doing so than it was. In the first reading of this law, the SDP Club made some concrete remarks on the proposal for this law on amendments to the existing Law on the prevention of riots in sport competitions, some of which it included in the final proposal for a law before us today in the second reading. The important comment of the SDP club which in its first reading prescribed that this was then in the first reading of the competition organizers' obligation to keep records of the tickets sold or allocated which were actually practical and impregnable was adopted and incorporated into the final text of the law and we consider this a reasonable solution proposed by the promoter for the second reading. Some other SDP proposals such as the installation of the definition law in Article 1 that the law applies to all international competitions organised in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, means all international formal and friendly competitions have not been adopted, and on behalf of the club we expect the Government to consider and I think that it defines more clearly the application of the law in all competitions in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and I think it would be reasonable and wise for the Government to accept this amendment. We also addressed in the procedure the amendment to Article 39, which requires that sanctions be prescribed for the organizers of competitions that allow such items as torches, rockets, and similar props to be entered into the theatre. Because you will allow it to be abnormal to find hundreds of torches in the theater, despite the directorial service, unless the competition organizer himself took part in it, because otherwise we can't spread aside from this rigorous control performed by both law enforcement authorities and the directorial service of the organizers all of a sudden I won't say the names of the stadium a few, hundreds of these torches, smoke boxes, and I don't know what's not there. Therefore, it is assumed that it was introduced in advance and that that is why the organizer had to know and must be responsible. We expect the government to consider this amendment and to install it in the final draft of the law. Finally, we also submitted an amendment to Article 39a, which was prescribed that the person who made the sport contest had been punished and who received the measure that he must appear compulsory in the place of residence no later than two hours before the event was held, or two hours after the completion of the sports competition or if he changed his residence, of course he must again appear in that new place. For this offence if such a person does not report, punishment is prescribed from 2 to 10 thousand kuna and a possible sentence from 10 to 30 days in prison. We think that it is too much and that this measure should be balanced because often there will be a whole series of justifiable reasons when such a person will not be able to come forward, and she really wasn't or wanted to go to the game. According to us, a suspended prison sentence could only be applied to a person who does not call the police, and in this regard we have sent an amendment which we also expect the legislator to consider and accept. The SDP club finally expects to accept our amendments, as well as amendments to some other clubs and representatives, and gives support to all acts and activities aimed at introducing order at our sports resorts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67287	Thank you. It is up to the HDZ Club and Mr. Representative Marijan Mlinarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67288	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. There is also a longtime former athlete and club manager, and I am also glad to see that we have been discussing sports for two days in a very positive atmosphere, especially in these amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Disturbs in Sports Competitions, where all clubs have so far supported this law. This law proposes, amending and supplementing this law to contribute to a more effective fight against illegal behaviour and riots in sports competitions. As my fellow MP said in front of me, and the law so far has provided certain penalties for this kind of behavior, which is aggressive and that even under that law, there have already been reports of about a thousand... criminally reported persons and preventatively detained persons of 2,000 225, but unfortunately despite the great mobilization of the intervention police in all so-called so-called. The risky sports events we had, unfortunately, and with this law of enormous damage, injured police officers and with the joy and joy that our athletes brought to us all, by winning a huge number of medals in international competitions that are not proportionate to the size of our people or any other success of our peoples in the family of European and world nations, were no less embarrassing to us by the incident of our fans in Malta, Croatia, Hungary, and therefore I feel justified that there have been changes and additions to this law, because the fines in the previous offenders have always been to the lowest minimum and those who have been punished. The number of safeguards imposed is also minimal to only 36, and the specific problem was the implementation of a safeguard measure to prohibit the presence of sports competitions, since the applicable law did not oblige the person to whom a safeguard was given to report to the police before or during the sport competition. That is why changes and additions to this law had to be made in order to finally seduce order and peace in sport competitions. Amendments and additions to this law have been made in many ways to try to raise awareness of the order. This is the first increase in penalties, better and more effective enforcement of safeguard measures, then better equipment of sports facilities, increased obligations and obligations and responsibilities of organisers, increased police powers and finally setting up a database of offenders' data. Thus, by increasing the fines from 500 to 1,000 kuna is minimal, meaning lower minimum. Then for harder forms, prison sentences are also proposed, meaning from 5 thousand kuna, 10 to 60 days in prison. Afterwards, the most important safeguards are more effective monitoring of protective measures. We know, in principle, that all those and those 36 who have been told protective... The measures did not appear, did not report to the police and were most often and were present at the matches, could not systematically monitor where they are, and now everything is provided for by this law and that they have to come forward and, most importantly, this law does not only prescribe the obligation of the individual and the organiser but also immediately prescribes penalties if the obligation is not implemented. [[You don't understand.]] It also means individuals, offenders who will also have greater penalties for non-fulfilment of obligations, and sports facilities must be equipped with video surveillance with the ability to print and store a recorded record of the behaviour of fans at entrances, exits and the entire space of a sports facility intended for viewers. The organiser, owner or user of the sports facility recorded video is obliged to submit to the police on its request for use in criminal and criminal proceedings. If the sports facility is not equipped with video surveillance or the record refuses to deliver to the police for the organizer, owner or user of the sports facility a fine of between 5 thousand and 100 thousand kuna is proposed and for the responsible person from a thousand to 10 thousand kuna. I think this is a very important newspaper because, as some previous ones have already said in the debate without registering the offenders, without a clear record of the offenders, the police are powerless because a large number of offenders can also be caught in large numbers, but perhaps even those main culprits who are extremely aggressive and who are not meant to come to the sport pleasure contest, cheering for their club, but emptying their aggression. The destruction and by material means, it also has to the fans of the opposing club and anyone. So they have to register and we have to identify these people. The responsibilities and responsibilities of the organisers are also increased. An obligation to act as organisers at the request of the police to take security measures and increase the number of directors is proposed. We also know that we've been in trouble with the organizers forever. According to our assessment of the police, we have proposed a number of directors who we thought needed to be around the battlefield, around the stadium, but by saving the organizers would always apologize that this was not necessary and it was mostly about police action and increasing the number of police officers around such stadiums. If the number of directors is not increased and security measures are not taken at the request of the police, that is, if they do not remove shortcomings for the organiser, a fine of between 5 thousand and 50 thousand kuna is proposed, and for the responsible person from thousands to 10 thousand kuna. It is proposed that the organiser of a sports competition or an introductory distributor will refuse to sell and assign tickets to the person who has been given a safeguard measure or a precautionary measure to prohibit the presence of a particular sport competition. And it's a significant newspaper because there will be lists of these people who are the main winemakers of the mess and in any case it's not good to sell tickets like that. There's also a punishment for that. Police powers have been increased. Police authorities are proposed to prohibit the maintenance of a sports competition if the organiser has not taken the necessary measures and thus threatens the safety of competitors and viewers. Of course, the video database and the database of these aggressive people who are repeated, which is most often repeated, appear in sports competitions, cause riots will have to be established and I believe when this Law is adopted that such data can also be changed not only in our country between certain cities where there are usually major competitions but to change such data between neighbouring countries and countries where our fans are going and from which the countries fans come into our country. Then, by accepting the proposed amendments and additions, it would be possible to take measures to prevent riots and in our sport competition. By adopting this Law, sports competitions will be really gathering honest sports fans. Finally, they need to move away, move the fences around our football stadiums, and that people, sports fans, and their whole family, without fear of enjoying a certain sport as peaceful viewers, will be hurt or bullied by a group of thugs. Whether at the sports competition itself, whether on arrival at the competition, or at departure, because we witnessed that fan incidents were happening ten kilometers away from the sports field itself, either at arrival or at departure. With these measures, by accepting this Law, we believe that these groups of thugs will be recorded and that order and peace will finally be introduced at our sports sites. And therefore the HDZ Representatives Club will support this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67289	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67290	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party club will vote for this bill and we will not write any amendments to its proposal, but for everything that will happen after its adoption in sports stadiums we will consider responsible to be the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Sports. I'll explain it next time. And in our first reading, we had a situation that we discussed at the same time or the same day and the proposal for a law on sports and this law that should prevent a riot in sports in stadiums. In the meantime, and today from the ruling benches, we often resented even yesterday that we are politically critical, and we are not making any suggestions, so I will remind you that one of the proposals from our first reading has been accepted, embedded in the Final Bill and some not. And that, in our first reading, we warned that even in the Sport Act, the Proposer must introduce the responsibility and obligations of the sports alliances not only when everything is fine but also when there are situations like this that require us to pass this Law. In the light of this Law, some countries, including England, and the United Kingdom, are also called for, but not until the end. Because in those countries that we call on besides repression against individuals, rioters, there sports alliances are also legally obliged to throw clubs that don't respect laws out of competition systems and because of this, today in England you don't have fences on football courts because there are not only threats... It's an incident, but it's also a club that allows me to get a torch into the stadium because no one's going to convince me that these torches can be smuggled past thousands of directors and 2,000 cops, and no one can convince me that someone can take down a fence in the stadium, and that it takes half an hour for the police and the firemen to approach that part of the battlefield at all, and we've suggested that there's a responsibility of an alliance that takes the competition to eliminate such clubs from a further system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This was not accepted and now the police, or the Ministry of the Interior, are offering a solution to the tightening of penalties for... It's a mess. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I quote: "The organizers of sports competitions still do not take sufficient measures to prevent and combat riots and violence in sports competitions or participate in the preparation and maintenance of sports competitions.", page 10 of the argument of the law. I was quoting the text of the proposer. The applicant shall also provide the following information. Infringement courts, police have filed a thousand 355 requests to initiate a misdemeanor procedure from which the courts have resolved 749 and are now continuing to review the following. After the proceedings, the infringement courts imposed 622 fines in an average amount of 981 kuna, 10 prison sentences for an average duration of 8 days, 36 safeguard measures for the presence of sports competitions of one year, 64 warnings, 24 conditional convictions and 22 educational measures. I am now reminded of the existing Article 28 of Law which receives a new item number 3 which has so far given the police the authority to break up the sport competition if there has been a riot, and not all appropriate measures have been taken to stop it if this has occurred, to prohibit the maintenance of the sport competition if the organiser has not taken the necessary measures, and now, with the addition of paragraph 3 even more rigorously, he cannot but will ban the sporting event if the organiser has not taken the law of the envisaged measure. I'm here to make sure the police have an obligation to ban the football game if the grades can get messy. However, how many times have the police in Croatia used their right in Article 28, how many sports competitions, events been interrupted and banned because the organisers did not respect the law? There's no explanation for that information. What are the penalties for the organisers who do not participate with the police and refuse to cooperate in a timely manner and become a mess. Watch out, there's a mess in this law. Five thousand kunas to 100 grand. You know that our courts always give minimum sentences, and that's this data of punishment for individuals proves something a little bit more. And do you really believe that with the fine of 5,000 organizers, we're going to make order, and at the same time his sports alliance is not going to impose the penalty of taking points, the ban on competition, the ban on playing close to 100 kilometers as European sports alliances do? Do you really think that with the threat of punishment of five thousand kunas we will force sports clubs to respect this law to participate with the police not to prevent the introduction of torches, Bengali, firecrackers, stones, stones, baseball bats and clubs into the forbidden space? We didn't want to make a commitment to sports alliances. We didn't commit them. They have nothing to do with it. Someone even told me when I called the alliances that alliances had nothing to do with the leagues of first leaguers organizing competitions. Well, please don't. Well, it's not UEFA and FIFA's first-sellers' association. It's a football alliance. These positive experiences of UEFA, FIFA, English, French, Italians in that part will not be taken over by anyone in this area when it comes to repression against the organizer and the alliance, but we also take over when the repression against the individual is in this case the one who caused and made something. Article 37, 38, therefore, speaks of sanctions against organisers. That doesn't change anything much more. There we dare not go with more severe measures, especially in that Sport Act. There is no record of how many clubs have been punished so far under Articles 37 and 38. How many penalties and penalties did the judiciary impose on the organisers of sports competitions who, by missing the application of the provisions of this Law, allow riots in which individuals and challengers, police officers and victims of social property were killed? Is there even one punishment being given to the organizer so far? How many and what kind of punishments? Just in the absence of that data and the fact that no one wants to talk seriously about the fact that we are just going with the repression against the individual, but not the ones that I said before that abuses are such a relationship, that sports clubs are in the hands of individuals, although citizens' associations and tomorrow as sports shareholders will make profits, profits by reselling players, and on the burden of taxpayers we will hire hundreds and hundreds of police officers, we will have a situation that 10 police cars must follow two, three buses between two, three cities in Croatia, that we will raise officers 24 hours before they examine stadiums, parks and forests around that stadium, to follow them home, to participate in the prevention of riots, to be injured in the workplace, God forbid they become disabled, but organizers will not touch them. The alliances will continue to charge membership fees regularly, receive money from the state budget and continue to be like an owl pushing his head into the sand and saying that it is not their problem, and believe me, ask them what they are most afraid of. By subtracting points and kicking out of league competitions. One Italy had the strength to get out of... The league threw out a club that was a synonym success in Europe. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The English threw away two, three clubs within the prime minister's first league cookie and removed all the fences from their stadiums. Those experiences mean nothing to us. So these are my arguments, Mr. Secretary of State, which is why I believe that by this application, I agree with you that in this law you could not go beyond what the Sport Act unfortunately failed to do but because of this new paragraph 3 of Article 28, I remind you. After this adoption, police will have the authority to rule before the start of a sports competition if they estimate that they have not taken all the measures envisaged by law prohibiting the maintenance of a sports event, according to a police assessment. Every time there's a riot and the police haven't pre-flawed it there, it means she's got the wrong grade in Article 28, and that's why I'm going to find you responsible and guilty for the mess. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67291	Thank you. At 17.32, it was time for an individual debate on this agenda point. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67292	Thank you very much. Comrade Lesar, you are unfortunately wrong when you claim that the police will have the possibility... prohibiting a sports competition before the competition itself if the threat of riots threatens because these amendments to Article 28 say unless measures are taken only under Article 5 of this Act should be included, you would be absolutely right and this amendment should be resolved and Article 6. Because what does article 6 say? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] "The organiser of the sport competition is obliged to increase the number of directors at the request of the competent police authority when the body assesses it. And what if it doesn't increase? The police would if the organiser did not comply with police demands and would simply not provide for the number of directors then have to be able to ban him from competing. And we'll do this by amendment, I'll make the amendment, you can join me if you want. This must be addressed by amendment and Article 6(5). Then we get full protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67293	National Minority Representatives' Club, respected representative Nikola Mak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67294	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! I also have personal reasons to speak in this House today about such an important issue as riots at sports sites and such as riots related to such a noble thing as sport. I'm from a time when the opponent said hello to the entrance to the sports field, either by clapping or by some kind of friendly cry, etc. Today we are witnessing when an opposing team appears on that home court then whistles, then some provocative messages, any oral ones, were in the form of banners, etc. which is only proof that sport has lost in this way by acting such individuals and such groups its Fernesh, its nobleness, everything that makes sport exist. Because if we whistle at that opponent on the field, which is why we're here at all, then our pets have no one to show with what they're worth. So that basic logic is missing in all of that. And now a wonderful thought of our Line Church "Sport is a place of friendship.". It's long gone, and that's why it's inconceivable to me or to me, it's foreign to me, but it's strange that we have to talk today about changes and additions to a law that has already been passed and that we're now fixing obviously, and that's good, to prevent riots at sports sites. To me as a man of the '50s, '60s when I was active in sports, it was simply unacceptable. However, it is necessary and it is good that today we have it on the agenda because we will most likely adopt it on Friday and thus give it into the hands of those who need it to prevent such things. The National Minority Club has yet another special occasion for this debate, which is racist statements, messages, expressions that echo our sports fields. And on a national basis, I'm not going to talk about gays because then that's the other side, I'm talking about what I'm interested in as members of the national minority when any national minority is used in one pervasive sense, in the sense that someone gets humiliated, that someone gets hurt, and that's how to undo that basic sense of sport. Normally, I think of those I represent in this House which are Roma because we are all witnesses when someone wants to be offended and demeaned to yell at gypsies and gypsies, from judges to rival players to delegates, to opposing administrations, etc. Until I don't know, tomorrow it can be applied to any of the twenty-two national minorities to use in a peri-curative sense what we consider absolutely unacceptable in the Club of National Minorities and that all means need to be fought among other things and, among other things, this law. We regret that he did not enter this text of the legal proposal our thinking that a sports event has to break up the moment when the first racist cry echoes either the password, or the poster, or I don't know what else, when it takes place at the sports field in the sports theater. We looked very hard for it, but in the debates, we pointed it out, and we suggested that it be done. We were then told that in that case when the atmosphere is less sharp, firey, etc. to break up the sports competition could cause even more trouble. We find that more trouble than being racist, be careful about both black and yellow, etc., we've had these cases with football players and basketball players. So it's not just about twenty-two national minorities that can be objects, but it's about the color of the skin. Therefore, that too is the expression of a racist view, and we regret that it did not enter into this law. We hope that if the state of affairs is not corrected that in one subsequent assembly of the Parliament and that provision will be incorporated because it is unworthy, it is unworthy of the Croatian way of life. When I say Croatian, then we are all political Croats, no matter what nationalities we are and who we live in this country and whose citizens we are. Therefore, that Article 10th amendment and the addition to Article 28, paragraph 3, which addresses the question of whether the event will be held? That's not it. It's an assessment of whether the event will be held at all. But these provisions, these provisions are not in this bill, and we think it should have been because it's in relation to what's being said here and taking points and throwing them into a lower rank of competition and so on. It's all a combination that can work to get one culture that's not only sporting but it's affecting one large part of the culture in general. And we're proud of our Central European features, our manners. We say, "We are Europe" and we are Europe. And here someone said, "On the other side, and in other countries, hooliganism happens and so on," but we should not take the lead for those where it happens, but we should watch what we do in our own backyard and in our own country. So we don't think there's any excuse why that provision didn't go in because it's already in itself the ultimate thing that we need to prevent, no matter what anyone says, so if we stop the game, there'll be even worse things. There are forces, there are organs, there are bodies that need to solve it if it comes to that. I want to say one more thing about the education and responsibilities of the Board of Sports Associations. Those administrations and those officials aren't just for parades. It's not just to score points, whether personal, political, economic or not, but they have to have that component of responsibility for fans as well. As they care about food, about the system of competition, about travel, about this and that, they must also be responsible for the behaviour of fans because fans or audiences are an integral part of the sport competition. So that component was ignored. I'm aware that she can't by law not know how to regulate exactly but in any case they're responsible to work with fans and not conveniently once or twice a year but to have certain procedures, methods. That they would tell these people if the house hadn't raised them, if the school hadn't raised them but that the sports resort couldn't be their place of hooliganism. It is also said here for this speaker, and it will certainly be repeated in individual debates that hooliganism, crime has become the primary goal and motive of a group of people mostly young and not very young but those who know how to organize it so that we can get to the point where the burning torch gets in the car with living people. And what if those four men in that paroled Dinam's car were burned down in Dugopoly? This should also be prevented and taken into account and, unfortunately, we are now in a situation with the judiciary what it is that as far as I know this process is still going on today and that it is not over and that there have been some occurrences in the pajamas courtroom and so on, there is another element of the entire system's validation. Not just that individual case. There is therefore also a need to go to the educational moment and to sanctions. We especially support this sequence of English regulations. I read somewhere in these Committee opinions that we should follow this English... We got him. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He is in the bill of law inside where it is spoken of about all the measures that Mrs. Thatcher introduced to the island, to the islands and which it is, and which led to the fact that there are no more fences in England. So go into the playground if you want, but you know what's waiting for you then. That you won't watch that game again in person. That you won't have access to the stadium. That you're gonna have to call the police. And so on and so forth. We will follow all together that this English example, which is in the proposal to amend and supplement this Law, will be applied in our practice. And in the end, normally we support this law because it is also in the interest of members of national minorities. As they deal with culture, art and so on, many of our members are engaged in sports either under the name of national clubs and national minority clubs, either in other mixed or other environments. And therefore we support it, and we want full success in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67295	Thank you. Club of HSP MPs, respected representative Miroslav Rožic. He's gone. The club loses its word. Honorable representative Ante Markov, club representative of the HSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67296	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Disturbs in Sports Competitions should be supported, every chance should be given to all those initiatives that go to prevent riots in sports competitions. In his opening speech, the State Secretary spoke of the circumstances in which the amendments and additions to this Law were made, saying a very symptomatic sentence or describing the circumstance of telling Croatian fans that they would be able to go to Germany uninterruptedly for the World Cup, that there would be no restrictions. That there would be no separation of good and bad fans but he made it very clear that all those who sin against German laws would be severely punished. In other words, they won't be watching the World Cup. That they would be fined and eventually deported. I assure you it will not be, I am convinced that there will be no trouble with any Croatian fans who will go to Germany. Not only will it go because of this clear message that is welcome to Croatian fans, which the secretary of state has sent, but also because of the perception that goes to Germany. And all those fans who would normally come to Zagreb, Split or Zadar have their own way of folk visiting and creating a different atmosphere in Germany will still behave differently. And I think, of course, I don't know the details of the German Law on Sports Competitions and the way in which non-sports conduct is sanctioned in the legal norm. I believe there isn't much more important, let's say the drastic differences of this law that I believe we'll bring all together on Friday. So what's the problem? But also on the other side I can't agree with some demagogue mystified views of some colleagues who have been putting out all the historical counterweights about it happening at football courts, or sports courts. Sports can't be any substitute for social deviations. It can't be sports that's going to autize all these social deviations in some way. He can't downplay them. In fact, he's a mirror of what we really have in society or about realistically. Thus, the situation at sports resorts cannot be viewed or resolved separately from any other problem in this society. And it doesn't need to be covered, so often it can get the impression that, through a battle to prevent riots, it kind of violates the position of a sport. Because if everything was as good in Croatia as sports and sports results, then we would certainly be in a far more unfavourable and social but also economic position. Therefore, we at the HSS Club hold that the situation needs to be seen realistically and that there should be ways to achieve an optimal possible effect that the law should be given. In fact, by assessing those proposals that could not be included in the final draft of the law, the promoter also showed that the two proposals that I made in my first reading concerning the HSS club were necessary, so he said, in connection with our remarks, that it is necessary to place more responsibility before the organisers who are absolutely first and most competent, most responsible and should be the bearers of all responsibilities in the sport competitions, and these organizers are actually privileged. Unfortunately, they're privileged. Unfortunately, they are not seriously sanctioned as physical offenders. They're in a more favourable position, and de facto they're generators and they're actually the reasons why sports competitions can cause riots. They end up pulling and the greatest economic benefit of it all together. And there was also a rejected proposal from the HSS Club regarding Article 10, regarding the same article in which we think the police are putting the matter in a very uncomfortable position. Acceptable, perhaps in principle, but Article 10 of Article 28(2) adds paragraph 3 which reads: "If the police estimate that the organiser of the sport competition has not taken the measures set out in Article 5 of this Act, the threat to the safety of viewers and competitors will be prohibited from holding a sport competition.". I said in my first reading that it was acceptable for us, but I'm afraid that the implementation of that article will be. Will everything eventually be transferred to police responsibility? Whether in the end any event that ends in failure in terms of organisation that ends in a way contrary to this law, which is contrary to sports character, will any such irregularity eventually end up in the "Dnevnik" you say the police have not done their job. At the game of Hajduk and Dinam, there were riots again, that's what happened. No one will mention the organizer of Hajduk unless he's the organizer of Dinam. But everyone's going to mention Mr. Secretary of State has made another review. And I don't think the police can just act, even if not preventively, and this article is very dangerous. Because he puts all the burden right on the police, police officers, and I just don't think that's right. Not only, I don't want to say now that they're not part of the system of responsibility. They did. But the organisers must still do more and must be more strongly subject to sanctions than they are under this final draft of the law. So we're just afraid that too much responsibility has been transferred to the police, and she simply won't have the elements of preventive action, and we're relying on it. Whether it is a preventive action before the start or in progress, and it cannot continue, it cannot continue under this proposal of the law. It'll only take a while. And what instruments of overall coordination do police officers need to make a decision before the start of a derby, one championship on which Croatia's football championship depends to say no conditions? Is that what Bengali is, is that 300 times the speech of public hatred, the manifestation of public hatred, any racial, any other, what is it? So here when we put in front of the police something that I'm afraid isn't right at all, it's not even correct. You know, it all comes together in one piece, that's not good. Get the police to let her deal with it. And it's become so little in society that it's nice. Put it there and they'll deal with it. I don't think that's good. It's not a sports resort, it's not a sports arena concentrate where it needs to turn badly into a good one. No, there's no way he's gonna get out of there like that. It's not a breeding place where something nicer will come out. Therefore, a system that has parts of this law needs to create a better framework. This one better framework depends primarily on the fact of the organizer. You know what the biggest goal is where the biggest problem gene is in every stadium, every battlefield, and what's the problem? The necessity to achieve results at any cost of the host or one who must win. He subordinated everything, from the hooligans, from those who should make riots, from those who should be challenged, from the judges who should be paid little to be favored. It's all done by one who has an interest, and has no interest in a citizen to come and drum him in the head with a bottle. But interest has an organizer who should win at any cost, if he can't win at least if the game stops, even if anything is done just so he doesn't get lost. So the sports component simply disappeared as a means of communication. So we have to get her back. How can we bring her back? We have to get her back, it's like an agreement between workers, employers and unions, and there's got to be a certain relationship here between those in that triangle, and that's definitely the organizer as the bearer. Sports alliances that are responsible for precisely what they are picking interest and which are coordinators of all activities. Clubs, players, of course, and police and all services operating in the post of prevention. Therefore, we are in favour of passing this law. I think it would be good for the amendments to either the Government or the colleagues and colleagues in this House to be corrected, to redefine this article on the 10th, to agree more precisely and to avoid possible confusion in its interpretation in the future, because I assure you in each of the first riots, riots, interruptions if it does not happen at the very beginning, the responsibility will unfortunately be transferred to the police, and this device is not good. The HSS Club will therefore support the final bill. We think it is good for the Government to consider once again the amendment to edit this Article 10 and simply send one significant message to both the sports and the general public in terms of the fundamental objective, and this must not be a result at all costs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67297	There's been a debate over clubs. An individual debate, a respected representative of Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67298	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'll be very brief in my debate. I absolutely support every intention to prevent riots in sports competitions. These amendments are complemented by the experience experience of its adoption in 2003 until today. However, I would like to highlight a positive example of the application of this law. At the Cantride football stadium in the river, fences that share the stands from the sports resort were removed without consequences for fans, players or any other participant in the sport competition. However, this is not only the result of the application of this law but also the active role of clubs in communication with fans' groups that will encourage them to become corrective behaviours in stadiums, and thus that additional director or policeman and thus make sport a attractive goal for the family's daily outing. I personally convinced myself that the hooligans who come to the games in groups not with the intention of enjoying the competition but to cause chaos, fighting, destroying other people's property, etc. They're no different than the other citizens while they're outside the group. It is only as a group that destroys each other who will strike more under the allegations of opponents, who will rip out more chairs in the stadium, destroy more garbage containers or glass in the houses around the stadium or damage more traffic vehicles. So I believe that this problem should also be approached more complexly, not just by measures of repression through this law. And look back at the new articles of 35a. and 39a. with some of your questions or dilemmas. I wonder what will happen if the person who has been told the protection measure of the ban on attending certain sports competitions says that at the time of the sports competition was or would be outside Croatia and was not, or was at the competition. How do you check that when you cross the border with your ID card without writing a record of the crossing? And secondly, will such a person be punished every time he doesn't report to the police station even if she really wasn't at the game, which is why she didn't participate in the riot, and in some objective circumstances she wasn't able to report to the police station. It seems to me that this provision should be developed so that instead of measures to prevent riots, it would not turn into a way of shagging citizens regardless of their objective guilt. There's only that much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67299	Thank you. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67300	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It says a representative of the HDZ Club that this law will introduce order. No law introduces order but is introduced by people who apply it. And we have a fundamental problem with the application of the law, and there is a general disturbance, because the laws don't apply, and that's also visible in this bill. Spectacular announcements that these changes will strengthen the existing law are illusory and are an illusion. After all, the government doesn't believe in them either, but the government responds to increasing violence and not only on sports grounds, but also admits it here honestly and admits it for the purpose of some sports events and the areas where it travels, where it travels, during trips around sports events. Violence has grown and all forms of violence have grown. However, there is not one, and it is not easy to stand up to such a growing violence, this is no excuse but surely the causes of violence are at least as the sciences of criminology and claim and speak, they are always conflicting at the relation of individuals to society, or groups of societies. And that our society in the bigger and more... these are the facts and above that should be imagined. However, it is a serious and systematic problem, but how much, at least, when it comes to laws, we must then think systematically and respond to this problem. There are amendments to the Penal Code under way, please. Due to various concerns, it has not yet been voted. Here, the government at that interval, in that interval from the final debate to the vote of the law, that is, the debate on the amendments themselves and the vote on them came out with a few amendments, sent to the procedure and this bill, increased penalties, increased penalties, we want to prevent violent behaviour. But this same government doesn't know or add to the fact that the Penal Code contains a norm, or incrimination of violent behavior. And that doesn't change anything. And why don't they increase penalties that are really mild and that haven't changed in years, right in the Penal Code, and there's been a rise in crime. Yeah, we were predicting, I think there was some kind of remark here, in 2003 in that novel you had in that change of law. But you don't find it appropriate that this is a dangerous behavior from a criminal-legal aspect where, in that sense, the will of the government would be presented through this Law. Well, you can see from now on. Through, it seems to me already someone in the name of the club spoke and mentioned, I think it's worth the praise, precisely that very symptomatic fact where in the assessment of the situation, i.e. only in the reasoning of the law, talks about what the courts were doing, how many misdemeanors they conducted, how much they solved the proceedings, etc. But nothing is said, or the role of the police here is mentioned that she has filed a thousand 355 demands. But now, the courts have solved only half of what they are, and that's a great success for the police. However, there is nothing to be said about the provisions and application of Article 26, 27, 28, which explicitly states what powers are under the existing Police Act. How police-related, how many of these cases were detained by police officers, or kept in a sports facility by viewers who committed riots, how many they kept in police premises, as a security measure. And now as a great surprise and a great, well, novelty that is right to be told, which is here and recognised, is prescribed by English laws, there's this norm that's going to lead simply to the non-distribution of riots because they're going to be obliged to report to the police before. But the police had the authority to have those she had already found, so to make riots, to prevent them from, to bring them in, to keep them. It's just to make it impossible for them to commit these riots. We don't have the data here how these provisions are implemented and what should be done then, so we can't run from the truth, from reality, than we all can do to make the police more effective if they need any additional legal powers in order to exercise the powers given to it under the existing law. But there is one newspaper, which, apart from additional measures, except for additional obligations, of course for the increased penalties, is given to the organiser, but the police from several places are, so to speak, deleted from Article 17 which is precisely about the insurance of the sports field itself. Well, now they're not, they don't just need surveillance from the directors and the police. The police are being wiped out in these changes, and it's enough to keep an eye on the directors themselves. So, mostly the burden of security, which is not bad, is being transferred, that is, the burden of responsibility is being transferred to the organisers, but police cannot escape and cannot escape from their responsibilities. Therefore, it is really unclear why certain provisions of these amendments delete police as an authorised person and ultimately, not only as an authority but as one who was also obliged to act in certain conduct, and most often these are the provisions that speak of insurance. It is very unclear that this provision of Article 6 will be sanctioned, where exactly, and why the proposer, therefore, when the government finds that this violence has spread and now it is sanctioned, behaviour while travelling to a sports competition and returning from the sport competition. Of course, responsibility falls on the organisers, however, as with those transports that are not in the authority of the organiser himself. So obviously one good intention, but it's not, that's not what this norm will do in practice, or it can cause a whole series of misunderstandings, and it's completely unnecessary because this idea, or the self-recognizable situation that happens in life, is not going to get the necessary results. There have been talk of racist statements here, and often there are sports events where a sports spirit should rule, they are most often presentations, therefore, and stupid statements, but also racist statements and statements that certainly harm the entire Republic of Croatia. Two years ago, we received a promise from the prime minister, a public promise when he then declared that the Ministry of Justice had given a month's deadline, a very short period, in mid-2004, was August, and there were months and months, many water had expired, the Penal Code changed, but such provisions, such incriminations, which the prime minister publicly promised would be incorporated into the Penal Code, which would also make it impossible for such situations, the increase of fascist and totalitarian systems and organisations to be a criminal offence. We don't have that day today, and you have an extraordinary stipulation, look, keep in touch with the 2003 novel. And one more thing, it is really pointless to talk about one strong will and the power that the proponent performs in public with these changes when additional funds are not provided for. And additional funds will exist and will certainly exist in the very fact that the register and the database are foreseen. And every collection and register costs just as much as anything else and all the good stuff. Therefore, this Law does not appear to be an amendment either, instead of working to strengthen the application of the existing law, we are going through amendments, and we are too weak in the application of the existing law. So this law is another story I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67301	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Marijan Mlinarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67302	Your Honor, Mr. President. Here I don't know where the representative, the respected representative Anticevic, pulled the data from, but it says nicely in that order that the detained persons were 2000 225, which the police kept. In addition, it says that violence is on the rise, and it says here in 2004, there was a riot at 115 total games, and in 2005, at 66, it means twice as much. Hurt fans, severe injuries in 2004, six, 2005 one. Light injuries in 40 2004, 21 2005. Then, police officers. 2004 injured 6, 2005 3. Light injuries, etc. It means the bus was also damaged in 2004. 12, 2005. 9, tram 2004. 9, 2005. 8, Train wagons 2004. 2, so you just need to read a little bit, so it will be seen that there is no violence on the rise, that the police are doing their job, but that it was necessary to pass this law in order to increase powers and opportunities for the police to do their job.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67303	Are you still sure you want to tell me about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67304	Article 209 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure because in this second part he was correcting something that I didn't even say, I was generally talking about an increase in violence. Therefore, I do not need to read the explanation of this proposal, enough to read the paper. The news is, when someone didn't kill someone and didn't kill themselves, they committed violence against themselves. So I generally spoke in that part of sociological pathology. So you hear what I'm saying to you? I'm not talking about attacking buses here, I'm talking about attacking people. ... But you didn't listen to what I said. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So don't fix something I didn't say.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67305	A very delicate interpretation of the correction because something is corrected by the general states or individually states. Very sophisticated. That should be a replica, actually, she would. ... E should be encouraged at all to use different means, instruments. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Honorable representative of Shima Luchin. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67306	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The unquestionable fact is that we are witnessing an escalation of unacceptable behaviour and violence along sports sites throughout Croatia. Violence is directed towards the physical and mental integrity of individuals and groups of citizens, private, state and local communities. Violence is directed towards cultural values, tradition and moral integrity of the narrow and wider communities. Groups and individuals do not survive actions that turn sports sites into law enforcement, anarchy and atmosphere, sometimes lynching. Sports resorts that should be places of joy, games, socializing, socialization, family dating and community, places where participants of sports games together with viewers will live and promote the ideals of the game, fairness of results according to the invested and skills, equal conditions and opportunities for all, objective criteria of success and many other personal and social values, become places unfortunately frustration, suffering and animosity. Alleged fans for their own known reasons by their negativeistic aspirations and practice become dominant participants in sports gatherings, become themselves the purpose and central actors of sporting events, media reports, sociological studies, round tables, Internet forums and diplomatic works and masters. Cheerleading groups of hierarchical structured often hypocritically and secretly funded and organised by club and club structures keep their sports and wider public chess, impose their disabled system of values and destroying material values, and because of the significant involvement of security forces and communal services in sports competitions and the wider community create enormous financial damages and costs. Regardless of the reasons, motives, social conditionality, system, value or major or minor influence of the family and social and state institutions and services on the behaviour of such individuals and groups of such practices and phenomena should be put to an end. It is precisely for all of this and for the reasons that other colleagues have said it is good that today we have this Final Proposal of the Law, which is aimed at all the important participants of sporting events, competition organizers, viewers as well as the services and organisations responsible for maintaining order and peace. And to conclude, I particularly support the tendency to tighten the sanctions envisaged, expand the content of the safeguard measures, as well as increase the level of responsibility of the competition organisers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67307	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivo Josipovic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Željko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67308	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. In any case, I will support the amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Disturbs in Sports Competitions because it is a clear fact that, despite its strict application, the current law has failed to resolve those serious forms of disorder and illegal behaviour in the stadium and in the direction of the journey of fans, which is very important and individual offender within... The police continued to commit violations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, I would first of all refer to a few of the facts presented in this High House and they refer to the denial of certain things brought by sports and sports competitions. First of all, it's a good coincidence that before this point we had the Law on Sports and that, in fact, through the debate on the Law on Sports, we actually defused the real problems that are in the sport that we will sanction with these amendments and additions to this law. All that sport brings and this is the socialization of young people, the adoption of new values, and the acquisition of friendships that have been denied here on several occasions, I cannot accept it and by indignity I reject as a man who has been in sport for thirty-five years which actively, which as a leader of certain sports clubs. And I can't accept that we generalize all those who come to sports competitions. Let's take that unfortunate derbie of Dinam and Hajduk where there are between 30,000 and 50,000 people, where riots make one handful of some table, two hundred people and we generalize as if it were all about all the viewers present at that game. And that is why this Law on the Prevention of Disturbs refers to that group of people as someone said good hooligans who don't give all of us and the rest of you to follow the family competitions. Therefore, they cannot accept certain requirements for tightening certain sanctions in terms of the organiser's guilt, in terms of the guilt of those who organise competitions. We here when we talk about sports competitions we mostly talked about football. And what about all those competitions that family people come to, all those competitions where there are no riots, all those competitions where we all enjoy hanging out together and friends together. Therefore, I could not accept the allegations of some of my colleagues that this minority must stand out and sanction as much as possible because it would then be a dictatorship of the minority above most because yet most of us who want to see a sports competition in peace. They cannot accept individual demands to increase the responsibility of the organizer. First of all, who organizes sports competitions? And yet the sports club, sports workers who organize it in the best way in most cases, and who, as was said here, do not benefit materially. Let's ignore two, three, four clubs in our country living off their work again. Everyone else competes from completely different initiatives than those that were spoken of here. And therefore, I think that this law has extremely well balanced the responsibilities of those who organise competitions and those who have to implement the law in practice, which is exactly the Ministry of the Interior. So this law did not propose a sports association or a community of sports associations or a Croatian Olympic Committee. It was just proposed by the Ministry of Interior and the Government of the Republic of Croatia because it is responsible for that group of hooligans who don't let us watch sports competitions in peace. And so I think that to take all the blame on the organizers who are in the best interest of organising sports competitions I don't think it would be good and in that sense this law has found one good measure, he found a good balance in which to arrange it. What is particularly important to highlight with these amendments is the monitoring of organised groups. We were all aware of the fact that it was in some form the order of sports competitions, the very competition in and around the stadium. However, riots began when certain groups arrived and left. Therefore, they cannot accept any requests to be the organizers again. Yes, there are organized groups that can be followed, which can be monitored but those who come let's say "unorganized" are ordinary little people, friends who come or rejoice or grieve over success or defeat. And I mean, asking that either the organizer or the police oversee the whole situation is a little unserious and practically impossible. It is quite certain that this law has made some progress and much more quality progress in the sense of monitoring all those who create riots. There are all those positive examples of European Union countries that have had problems long before us today, and many before us have managed to solve them in a good way, in one way that today, as someone has noticed, there are no more fences in English stadiums, that people right next to the field line can follow a sports competition without any fear of being threatened. And they can't accept the demands of certain colleagues to sanction sports clubs in that sense and they're not exactly what we heard here that one Italy or one England sanctioned its clubs for the behaviour of their fans. No, these clubs were sanctioned just because of other things and these are financial malfeasances and it has nothing to do with what we're talking about here today. To punish a sports club for rampaging a group of fans, I think it would be counterproductive in that case. Because you need to know that all of us who work in sports are investing very much in our free time, and money and everything else, and we give up a lot to bring these young people into... the process and to allow them to compete and show what they learned in training. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it is particularly important that what is defined here in Article 33, which is the presence of a judge for violations in a sports competition when it is assessed by the organiser. In practice so far, according to my experience and knowledge, it didn't work. It was not carried out in action because, at the request of the organisers, some of the presidents of the criminal courts did not refer judges to the scene and could not sanction the offenders on the spot. Why does it matter? This is unusually important because we are thus giving the organizer and the police a new weapon in hand, which is the judge of violations that sanctions, removes and punishes those who have violated it. And if it happens after a month, two days after it happened then believe me, there's no such effect and such a moment, a raising moment and every other one who would have it happening on the spot. I therefore believe that this, that these amendments and additions have succeeded to the greatest extent in balancing the relationship between viewers, organisers, MIP employees and all those who seek to come to a sports competition with their families, enjoy it and go home happily. Therefore, of course, we will also support these changes and additions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67309	Thank you. Replica's respected representative Anton Perusko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67310	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's what I agree with my colleague, Nenadić, and I appreciate his three-year experience in club work. I'm in clubs as much as I'm older than you and it looks like I'm a lot older. And I know, I understand, and I know what you mean when it comes to the responsibility of the organizer. But I do assure you that the responsibility of the organizer cannot be excluded and to a very large extent. I'm a delegate at the first Croatian football league games. And at the pre-game meeting every time we ask the guest club because it's an obligation do you have organized fans? The answer is always: "No." And a transport was paid, tickets were bought. Data is some sort of travel fee and so on. And I'll be happy the moment the club representative says, "Yes. We have 3,000 organized fans." Because it means they're working with them, and they're kind of being held in control and contributing to order. Here's an example of the river. The Rijeka Army is one cheerleading group that was really the same as some other cheerleading group 5, 6 years ago. I'm not going to say names so someone doesn't get it wrong, but by the persistent work of the leadership of the club with the army, the armada is to you, I assure you in the last three, four years I'm a lot of times a delegate on their... Absolutely no problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What my colleague, Bisserka Perman, said. The river has not completely removed the fence because the regulations do not allow, but it has been reduced from three metres to 20 feet. And no one's moving. Therefore, understanding what you wanted to say without any intention of political bickering or any responsibility of the organizers must indeed be great and I welcome the changes made to this Law in that direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67311	Reply to Replica Honored Representative Zivko Nenadić A turtle? [[Intruder: Željko.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67312	Thank you, Mr. President. A turtle, yes. I didn't say at any point that the organizer should be excluded as a responsible person. But you can't, there were all sorts of suggestions to put everything on the organizer's back, that the MUP wasn't at all responsible for anything at the game. We can't do that. We have to share all that responsibility together and I know the Rijeka Armada as well as you do because as a Rijeka student and athlete who played for the Rijeka clubs I met them and once Armada didn't behave like he did today. And that's a fact. So whether someone wants to admit it's his fans or not is his problem, but the fact is that organized groups make problems. And that should be prevented. And that's a smaller group compared to the whole audience that attends the games.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67313	Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative Velimir Plesa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67314	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs. The Republic of Croatia is the contractual side of the European Convention on Violence and Indecent Activities of Watchers in Sports Competitions, particularly at football matches adopted in Strasbourg on 19 August 1985. The Contracting Parties have undertaken to establish and implement measures in accordance with Articles 3 to 6 of the Convention in order to prevent and combat violence and misbehaving of football players and other sports events in which there is fear of violence. In order to implement the provisions of the European Convention, a number of Contracting Parties and international sports organisations have set out measures aimed at preventing violence in sports events and at holding sports events. That is why it is normal for Croatia to have such a law, such measures and I welcome these additions that the applicant has made, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has sent to the Parliament. It is indisputable that there are too many misbehavings in a large number of sports competitions, including riots, and it is particularly worrying that violence in sports competitions has taken alarming proportions. In the last session of the Parliament, I was a member of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, and I must say that in May 2000, as a Committee, we asked the Government to normatively regulate the issues referred to by the European Convention. We also held a debate on the problems of violence on sports grounds and tasked the government to prepare a special law that would sanction the violent behaviour of fans at sports sites in accordance with the experiences of some European states. We did the same thing with a round table as the Committee in October 2002. Unfortunately, it wasn't at the time if hearing, if you will, I don't know what by the government to pass such a law. On the other hand, the law was passed only in the summer of 2003 in July by emergency procedure, following those indignities and those ugly situations and images that took place in Kranj at a water polo match between Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro. Everyone was in a hurry. Annual vacations have begun. It was the last session, July 15th. And at that time, it's normal that the law was passed as it was passed. He had his own good side, and he got what we expected from him and to a certain extent. But what stands before us today are just the additions and changes that were then either not seen or have not arrived to be accepted as proposals made by not only the representatives of the opposition then but also representatives of the ruling coalition parties. The incidents at sports courts and after the adoption of the Law in 2003 unfortunately, they are our daily life and not only the fans but also the participants of the competitions, players, coaches, members of the club management. Although we must be honest and admit that after the legislation has been passed, the situation is much better than before, so I hope that these changes and additions will also contribute to improving the situation in this regard. What I find important is certainly the fact that these changes and additions of the measures against excess in stadiums are brought primarily for the safety of all visitors, especially for the safety of children, not for the purpose of showing Europe how courteous we are. We as a people have shown our courtesy and demonstrate our culture and deeds that we have created throughout history and today. This law needs to be complemented and amended, that is, because we are all witnessing that at a time of important matches it is not too wise to walk the street, let alone learn in public city transport leading to the stadium. There were also serious injuries and major material damages, and this suggests that if such behaviour continued, they could begin to announce the alarm sirens for a little while longer. At the same time, I am sure that the violence at the stadiums will not be resolved and cannot be solved only by a strict regulation. Educational and preventive actions in schools, sports clubs should be provided, and civil values should be embedded in young generations. The aim of all these measures, including this law, and its amendments and additions, should be to create desirable destinations for the whole family from stadiums and halls, without fearing riots and violent behavior. To create such a climate requires much more than one or two laws. We must think differently and experience Croatian sport, because what we cannot allow is primitive fans to destroy numerous, truly valuable results that our athletes achieve in European and global competitions and we do not want such a disgrace to Croatian people and nations. I am fully aware that there is no quality sport without athletes and fans, because these are two closely related things and it is necessary to find the right model and way of their symbiosis. Croatian sport and Croatian fans must accept a normal approach to cheerleading because it is part of the culture of a nation and so we must behave. And let this law be only a necessary evil that will regulate that minority that still appears in those stadiums. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67315	Thank you. Dorothy Pesic Bukovac. She's gone. He's losing his word. Dear representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go. I would also take the opportunity to congratulate our colleague Ljubica Lalić on her birthday, today. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67316	Thank you, Mr. President. I thank my colleagues for their congratulations, and I'm really glad. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, I'm sorry about this, but I'm going to try to be brief, I really need to speak a few words about this bill that I really support. Because riots in sports competitions have become a problem. They've become a problem that needs to be solved by the state. Who comes to sports fields, and what is the structure of the sports event viewers? I personally believe and I am convinced that two types of people are coming to the playground, regardless of the kind of sport. First, most of them who come to enjoy sports come to cheer for their chosen ones. And the other part that I consider to be a minority is those who come to sports grounds to free their negative energy that is in them and therefore come under the influence of alcohol, alcohol, and the worrying problem is that more and more, more and more come under the influence of intoxicating drugs. Of course, the state as a social community is obliged to ensure the right of the majority who wants to enjoy the sport competition, that is its right, it can consume it if you want, and the state is obliged to provide it. What do you do with that minority? The minority needs to be eliminated, and in the event of excess, it must be punished in a timely and effective manner. For this minority leaves a very ugly image upon us as a people and the impression is that we are a vandal people. We're not vandals, but individuals and groups have and these groups need to be sanctioned. It was our thinking when we passed the law in 2003 on the prevention of riots on sports grounds, although at the time there were clubs that thought we didn't need another law, because there was a Law on Public Order and Peace. But then the parliamentary majority voted in favour of the law. And thank God that law was passed. And we have the law, but we still have the riots. And now the question is, what is it? We have the law, this law is no worse than the laws of the countries and members of the European Union. The laws of the European Union shall apply and shall be effective. We listened today during the debate about what was happening in England. And indeed in England there are no more excesses. Why? Because it was a timely and rigorous punishment. So, you're always looking for the guilt of why these excesses have. And then it's said we're not good with laws. I'm not sure our laws are any good, because our laws are similar or identical to the laws of other countries. The problem is something else. In addition, the law can be amended during application. Well, we're changing the law now, too, probably because we've noticed that there are some shortcomings, there are some gaps that can certainly be corrected by amending the law. But the real problem is implementation. The real problem is implementation. Here we have a report that broke, broke 27 buses, 21 trams, 3 train cars, 63 passenger cars. There were injured, more severe and more easily injured. And now that we're looking at it, there's been criminal charges against a thousand 581 people filed a misdemeanor. A thousand and 300 were applications. But what's going on? 50% is fined. Only 50%. So that fan who comes and goes to a sports competition to free his energy, so he's going to make a mess, he can de facto count on only 50% of the risk of being punished, and the remaining 50% will most likely never be punished. And for us, worrying about this problem of ineffectiveness of the lawless courts or other bodies that bring it up, which express and bring punishment, because the very knowledge that I may not be affected by the punishment is actually encouraging. We're such a people who are optimistic, so I guess I won't be the one to be punished. Furthermore, what else is going on. If we look at the structure of the fines then unfortunately we will reassess as we have concluded in the Penal Code that our courts tend to impose penalties that are closer to the minimum than maximum. So let's say in this range or the fine of 500 kuna to 10 thousand kunas, the average fine is 981 kuna, and in the penalty of prison in a leprosy from one day to 30 days, the average sentence of prison is 8 days. I once debated what affected the pronunciation of such inappropriate punishments. However, there is also this incentive, therefore of those 50% that have been initiated, which have been processed, which have been fined, they actually have no reason to fear punishment because the punishment is inappropriately small. What's the penalty? Well, punishment is a measure that has both preventive and educational and repressive effects and now it has no preventive effect because no one is in pain, it has no educational effect because it is also not afraid because it does not know if it will reach it. Are you repressive? How many of these have been punished? Of these 50% sentences, it would be very interesting to see how many penalties have been imposed. And now that all of this is being summed up and we first see that we agree that this should not be put to the end and that it can only end with rigorous measures, however the most important thing remains, and that is the timeliness and execution of the penalty. If that's not the case, I welcome this law, but until we have it, until it's practically implemented, and until the impediment is truly a fear, until then all those fans who come to sports fields are just to kick ass, to make a mess, to fight, to break down buses, trains, personal cars, etc. They will only be able to sing "who is afraid of the wolf yet" to this Croatian Assembly as a legislative body. Because we're actually a wolf who threatens with the law and threatens to increase the fines, and those behind us need to put that law in our lives, and that's where we get the cracks on the link in that chain, and there's a break in that chain, and there's a break in that chain, and it's ultimately ineffectiveness. I also welcome an increase in the service of penalties, but I welcome and set up video surveillance because this video surveillance certainly allows the identification of those who committed a certain excess. However, I am a little afraid that this identification will not go as smoothly as it should go and that all the perpetrators who have done it will be identified. We also leave some space here for volunteer grades, so we tell those who are told a ban measure, the presence on these sports grounds will have to report to the police. That's a good thing he's got to call the police. But what happens if he doesn't call the police, what if he's on some sports field at the time and he's making a mess at the time? That's the law. The police can do it. The police can do it. That's exactly what I'm a little afraid of, so here's what I'm leaving Mr. Secretary of State for you to think about. To think until the law is passed because it really is not our goal to deal with politics on this serious problem but rather our goal is to pass the law, but even more to ensure the law is implemented so that the bad guys don't sing "who's afraid of the wolf yet". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67317	Three for the groat. Correction of an incorrect quote, a respected representative of Velimir Pleša, but be careful that today is a colleague's birthday.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67318	A very thoughtful and very precise correction of an incorrect quote. A colleague named Lalic said, the parliamentary majority then passed the law. That's not true, because the law was passed with one vote against and one abstention, all the others we were for.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67319	Okay. Dear Representative Miroslav Rosic. He's gone. He's losing his word. And the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67320	Thank you very much. Quite briefly, Mr. President. With riots in the stadiums, other countries had problems, the UK in particular. They contained them, they solved the problem. How? Well, above all, the great punishments. High sentences for wrongdoers and high sentences for clubs. Are these fines provided for by this law high enough? They increase, minimum penalties increase, that's true. But there's still not enough, there's not imagined penalties for organizers, or clubs. Because it's the clubs, it's the organizers who have to take care of the event organization on their own ground. You know there's already been said several times, so you can't bring 100 torches into the stadium along with all those cops, along with all those directors there and then nobody. That's not how it should go. You know, if the club had to pay high damages for it, or if it was banned from organising a few games on his field, or if it was thrown out of the league, then that control would certainly be stricter. Another thing that comes into the eyes of this bill that we normally support is not to be pointed out, statistics are bad, and the law was passed in 2003 and we see that in 2004 we even have an increase in incidents. What does that mean now? It means either one thing, or the law is too mild, so it doesn't concern anyone from those who violate it, what do they care about such small penalties, or the law doesn't apply at all, and then it can be the strictest, but if it doesn't apply then no purpose. This is worrying information about the increase in the number of incidents in 2004. Very worryingly, it should be well analysed, it will be necessary to monitor and implement this law very carefully, so let's say within six months or a year already after the end of one of those sports seasons, to see if he has given the expected effects, or if he needs to continue to change it further, because suffering riots at sports games, suffering riots on the streets before it makes no sense. This society doesn't need it, it's not sports fans, it's not sports fans, it's hooligans. They should be treated like hooligans. They don't come to games because to encourage or come to games because they want to enjoy sports, to watch sports events, they come to beat, they come to break, they come to have fun in this totally primitive way. Well, that shouldn't be allowed. This should not be allowed, the state is stronger than anyone, and especially from such hooligans, and there it must be shown that the state has the strength, that it has the determination, that it has the political will, that it is accounted for. I won't say, this government is showing political will, it shows. It was announced by the prime minister in his statements after an incident, immediately referred to the law in the procedure. It's all getting tough right now. We just need to see if it's tight enough. And the secretary of state, as I said in that correction of the allegations, I've sent you an amendment where we have to give the police the authority not to allow the maintenance of a sports competition, a match unless the organizer acts by order of the police and provides a sufficient number of security guards. Why? So because he can be paid more for the fine than to hire another 200 security guards or 100 security guards, I'm talking to him in mind, as far as the police are telling him. What he's going to do, he's going to count on what's cheaper for him, and then he's going to go on purpose to pay the fine, he's going to do it on purpose. That's also not to be allowed, but then the police if they break the provisions of this new article, paragraph 5, so I won't, and then you won't, so there won't be a game. So then you're all those security guards you have a contract with, and you're gonna have to pay anyway, whether or not, it's gonna be a clean price. At all, the threat by not holding the game is very effective and should be used more frequently. Because then and those who came to cause a mess, if the game isn't there because of them, then they have nowhere to cause a mess. The greatest punishment for them. Then they came completely in vain, and they were completely wasted traveling because the police were following them on that road, preventing them from making a mess in the way, and now they're coming to the game, the games are gone. So what now? Home to a nice job, that's their worst punishment. And that will be the worst punishment for the organizer if he doesn't follow the police's instructions because the police are doing their best. We can't blame the police now. Well, he can't, as much as he'd have to hire cops right now and what kind of creepy pictures they'd be if there were whole cordons over a cup of bad guys. It doesn't make sense, and it's expensive. It's expensive to hire the police. So let's get this burden to the organizer, follow this law, he's good. Not bad, let's hope they get results, let's hope it won't be much, and once we're raised, once we break it, it won't be very easy to come up... You know, it hasn't even appeared in the UK, then there are generations of new viewers, fans who won't think of it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They follow each other, so they organize themselves. So, well, I said briefly, I went a little further. I beg you, Secretary of State, to adopt that amendment. I think he's important, I think I explained him. There's no point in trying to do that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67321	Thank you. Just so the guards don't go from sports gatherings to political gatherings. Guards don't go to any other gatherings. Replica, a respected representative, Željko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67322	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, actually, I did have a correction to an incorrect quote, but for my dear colleague, Stazic, it's obvious that, uh... Whether we're going to lift a yellow or white tile. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I raised the yellow tile then to correct the incorrect quote because last time there was such a replica about not having the courage to lift the yellow tile when we were correcting the incorrect quote. I just wanted to say one thing. Apparently, the respected fellow Stazic, for him the sport begins and ends with the football game Dinamo-Hajduk, Hajduk-Dinamo, Rijeka-Hajduk, Hajduk-Dinamo, etc. In one, four, five encounters that take place, which are risky. However, fellow Stazic, there are very many sports and very many sports workers and very many organizers who organise sports competitions with heart, willingly, with everything that seems to me to be missing in some, in a particular sport we talked about. So I'm going to repeat my position again, which is that I don't believe and I can't believe that any sports competition organizer, it's sports clubs, it cares about the riots in his stadium. I can't just believe it. Well, everyone that smart guy's gonna figure out how much he needs a security guard and... It's not about the police that she's going to assess whether or not she's going to meet. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a sportsman thing, and the police are here to sanction and prevent actually the worst that can happen in the stadium.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67323	Replicate response, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67324	Now, it's a good thing you've picked up the line because you haven't corrected the quote, but you've got an opinion, and it's a good thing we're pollemizing about it because this isn't a big deal. Be careful, of course, that no club organizes a sports competition because of the fact that there are riots on it. That's for sure. But the fact is he's got sports, and that's football mostly, where riots happen. And you see, at the tennis match, I don't remember seeing any mess. That someone got in a fight or threw torches.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67325	And hockey on ice, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67326	Yeah. Now watch out, now watch out. Football clubs are the richest of all these sports clubs. I'm not saying it's in his best interest to have a mess, but it's in his interest not to spend enough money on insurance because then he's going to be left with more to share a reward or, I don't know, buy a player and I don't know what. And besides, we don't bring this law because of a tennis player. Because if everyone acted as tennis viewers this Law would not be necessary in Croatia. Well, we're bringing this bill for the Dinamo-Hyduk game, if you will, and the riots that happen there and come and break half the city. So for them we bring them and let us not grieve them, and let us not choose words when we speak of these organizers because they did not deserve to choose words. Given the level of organization they provide. I'm sorry, so in this town where such a sporting event is being held, there are peaceful citizens who attack these hooligans on the road, destroy their property, roll over their vehicles. Well, look, when it starts to happen, then you have to think about banning games at all. And it's about individuals, not how we're going to express ourselves about such organizers. Please, they deserve police control, they deserve the obligation to act by order of the police, and they deserve such a law, perhaps even stricter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67327	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67328	Thank you very much. Since today's session is over, I'll be brief. I've really listened very carefully.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67329	This is the Law on the Prevention of Disturbs in Sports Competitions, not the Law on the Prevention of Disturbs in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67330	I listened very carefully to the debate and all the MPs and I think that all the debates were well-intentioned, there was no politics or attempt to abuse this law. I think the simplest, shortest, comes down to all the debates, and what we wanted to achieve, and in which we agree to try to separate the weeds from the grains. I said in the introduction that according to some statistics it is only about 1% to 2% and other countries of the most extreme ones, let's call them fans who attend games, who make riots and who go to competitions not because of sports but because of causing riots and for them, that is, against them this Law is brought against them and is directed. Maybe we don't agree on how to do it, so maybe one of us could work it out with... , i.e. by imposing greater obligations on clubs, or organizers, others to transfer a higher burden to the police, but we have discussed the proposal of this Act before reference to the parliamentary procedure and discussed with the representatives of sports clubs and sports associations and some clubs, in particular the alliances of smaller and unattractive sports have expressed concern whether the application of this Act will bring them as organisers some major commitments which they will simply not be able to carry out financially. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The police have accurate information about sports, competition rankings and clubs where the biggest incidents occur. Of course we will not burden small amateur real clubs with what Mr. Nenadić says because we saw what happened in Split with that tragedy where the coach drove the girls to the competition. Unfortunately, in Croatia, the most common situation is that these sports clubs are really amateur societies where coaches and board members, parents with their financial contributions, spending their free time practically keep clubs alive. It is not our goal to make or impose additional obligations on such clubs, but to one small number of clubs in which events occur, whose encounters persist in incidents and where it is clear that this is not a coincidence, because it is not possible for several dozen directors on certain sports grounds, competitions, objects to appear several dozen torches despite the call of this rigorous control and that will require police to deal with it. And it's not normal for the head of a club whose game happens to an incident to be punished for harsh violation of the law with a fine of 500, 600 kuna as early as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67331	The law on the prevention of disorder.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67332	The other day, so I think that this Law, that is, by proposing amendments and supplementing the Law, we have really achieved that goal that we all try more effectively together to oppose that great minority who use sports competitions really to experience the lowest passions, which are harassing others, which threaten the safety, health and lives of others, and I think that these proposed changes will certainly achieve at least a part of these goals that we all certainly turn to. I've seen most of the amendments, I think they're absolutely reasonable, they're good. We will consider them for the adoption of the law, and we will probably adopt most of these amendments. And I say, once again, I thank you for all the debates that have really been made to notice that our goal is the same for all of us. We may agree a little on how to achieve this goal, but be sure that the MIP has really good intentions and that we will try to achieve good results through the application of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67333	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The session will continue tomorrow at 9:30 with a debate on the final proposal of the Law on Theatres and after that will discuss the final proposal of the Law on the Security and Intelligence System of the Republic of Croatia. SESSILE INTERNED IN 19.08 HOURS Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the prevention of riots in sport competitions. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by State Secretary of the Ministry of Interior Mr Ivica Buconjic will further explain the proposal or the amendment. Amendment of one Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67335	The amendment of one club to the article is the first one to be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67336	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment of the second Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67337	It's getting adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67338	It becomes an integral part of the law. The amendment of the third legislator, Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67339	It's getting adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67340	It becomes an integral part of the law. The fourth representative of Ivo Josipovic. He's adopting. Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67343	No, I don't. Article 18 is not adopted because this is about sanctioning natural persons where prison is prescribed and the sentence of prison cannot be applied to legal persons. It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67344	SDP counseling club. To vote. The result? 7 for, 6 abstentions, 73 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. And the Sixth Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67345	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-07-0.u67346	It becomes an integral part of the law. Thank you, Secretary of State. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the prevention of riots in sports competitions. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 94 votes for, one abstention, four against and passed this law with the amendments accepted. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session. On the agenda - Final proposal of the Law on Theatres, second reading, P.Z. No. 361 The legislator is the Government. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, local and regional self-government. Culture Minister Bozo Biskupić will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Minister!
