ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67348	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable MPs! The bill passed the first phase of the legislative procedure in December 2005. All comments and proposals made in the debates with full respect were considered and to the greatest extent possible introduced in the Final Proposal of the Law on Theatres before you today. To this end, numerous working meetings were held primarily with representatives of theatre life in Croatia, professional art associations, trade unions, intensities, directors, representatives of founders and the final proposal of the law are arranged to carry out theatre activities, the establishment of theatres and theatre groups, financing, organisation and management of theatres, the appointment and rights of national theatres and its assistants, business directors, artistic directors, operas, drama and ballets, as well as directors of other public theatres. Then, the position of both the rights and duties of theatre artists and other theatre workers and other issues of importance for theatre activity. With the establishment of theatres and theatre groups as public institutions, the possibility of establishing private theatres has also been opened, as so far, the possibility of acting in theatre houses because they prevailed because they are a very suitable form of performing theatre life in smaller environments that can hardly provide a permanent ensemble and compete and a continuous theatre programme. Theatre houses allow them to accept visiting performances of other theatres. In accordance with the maximum number of observations and proposals made by all participants in the debate in the first reading, the biggest changes were made to the management and position of the intensifier and the business director. The Indentant is once again a key person in national theatres, it organizes and implements a theatre programme and is responsible for it in a professional, i.e. the artistic meaning as well as the legality of work as any person at the head of any institution. This is accompanied by the obligation of the applicant to propose its four-year programme before its appointment as well as the financial and personnel plan for the implementation of the programme. The Executive Director shall be the Assistant Director responsible for the organisation and operation of the theatre and his term of office shall be the same as the mandate of other assistant directors, artistic directors for the drama, opera and ballet programme. The administrative council, which suffered a lot of criticism in the first reading in this House, was replaced by a theatre council composed of representatives and founders and representatives of theatre artists. The theatre council will establish a link for the founders of theatres which finance it but also the influence of theatre artists who implement the theatre programme on life and the work of theatre. The affairs and tasks of the theatre council are now precisely regulated in the law which removes a number of remarks from the first reading aimed at the ambiguity and opacity of the theatre management. In order to prevent conflicts of interest, employees during the term of office cannot act artisticly outside the theatre and outside members of the theatre council cannot act artisticly in a theatre where members of the council are present. The ban... theatre artists with theatre will be conditioned by their involvement outside the theatre through the consent of the directors or directors and by establishing the conditions under which they can perform certain tasks outside the theatre and thus the possibility of employees is limited... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] theatres that while there are employees, they are the founders of a private theatre or theatre group. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is a significant change compared to the first reading which is found in the final proposal that co-founders of the Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb are the Republic of Croatia 51% in the part and the city of Zagreb are 49% in the part. They will arrange their mutual rights and obligations regarding the provision of funds and any other issues related to the work of the Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb with a special contract. This will certainly reflect not only on the insurance of funds for the work of the theatre but also on the acceptance of the proposal of its programme and on the mechanism and appointment of the intensities. It is now appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and at the joint proposal of the Minister of Culture and Mayor of Zagreb and according to the previous opinion of the theatre council. We believe that this is a big step because although the Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb is undoubtedly a national theatre with its programme of interests... public needs, to carry out theatre activities at the level of all Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It still achieves its programme right in the city of Zagreb and is of interest and important its programme and work for the city of Zagreb is uncontestable. The final draft of the law improved the position and social security of theatre artists who are now establishing a working relationship in public theatres and in public theatre groups by concluding a four-year contract and only exceptionally in case of the need of a project for a shorter period of time which can again not be shorter than two years, although there is one exception in the law that it can be... A year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition, after 16 years of work at the theatre theatre artist must be offered the conclusion of work contracts indefinitely. Such solutions leave the possibility of better human use and mobility of theatre artists but also provide them with a greater measure of social security. And in the end, no less important funding. The funds for the work of public theatres and public theatre groups as well as for all public institutions in culture shall be provided by founders on the basis of the adopted proposal for programmes and financial plans and, of course, in accordance with their financial opportunities and established public needs. However, the novelty of this final bill is that public theatre founders establish criteria and standards for the financing of theatres and do not go below the established standards in order to secure the necessary level of performance of theatre activities as a public need these standards and criteria will also be relevant for theatres and theatre families themselves when planning the programme and organising their implementation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67349	Thank you. The Committee on Law, Education, Science and Culture? President of the Committee, Honorable Representative Peter Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67350	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State and Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed the final proposal of the Law on Theatres P.Z. at the 24th session of June 2nd of this year. 361. The committee discussed the issue as a parent working body. The opening argument was tabled by the applicant's representative. The Committee agrees with the proposer's claim that the final draft law better regulates a number of relevant institutions and status issues of theatre artists. It is embedded in the presented solutions that I think a very significant number of remarks and proposals from the first reading of the bill which have been contributed to by the consultation of the promoters with a large number of participants in theatre life. The claim concerns both the management and management issues of theatre institutions and the status issues of theatre employees. When it comes to this other issue, the proposer sought to satisfy, to the greatest extent possible, at the same time, diverse and sometimes, even contradictory requirements such as the need for greater mobility of theatre artists when it comes to their working legal status and, on the other hand, the need for one category of theatre artists who acted for a number of years to establish the right to a contract of work without further time and other restrictions. In addition, the Committee members have insisted on seeing some solutions and for this reason two amendments have been set out. After the debate was held, the Committee took the majority of votes; 6 for, 1 abstention reached the conclusion: The Committee proposes to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on Theatres in the form proposed by the proposings next, and I say the following, and not the following, the amendment because the second amendment is being withdrawn. For the same solution, a better, more precise formulation was found in the same sense, in the same intention to be submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club. Therefore, we propose Amendment 1, Article 30, is amended and reads as follows: "Intent, assistant intendant, artistic director, director, director and assistant director of public theatre and public theatre groups, during the term of office, may, this is the difference, act artisticly and perform artistic activities outside the theatre or theatre family but only with the agreement of the theatre council which must, in each case, contain the conditions for performing such tasks. Recital: the provision proposed in Article 30 should not preclude the work of the numbered persons who would, in the proposed manner, be completely interrupted during the duration of their management or management term. And that is contrary to the experiences of both Croatian and world theatre life, and I would say so to the principles of excellence. However, at the level of the law, it is necessary to establish ways to ensure a balance between their administrative and administrative obligations and their creative interests, which in each case is a matter of assessment taking into account all the circumstances. It is our view that such an assessment and appropriate consent should be given to the theatre council. Given the power of attorney. In view of the powers of that body, it is established by the proposal of this law. The extremes to which, during the term of office, intensities and other persons referred to in Article 30 would not be allowed to act in art during the duration of their term of office would be as inappropriate as far from the real state of affairs as if that possibility were left without any restriction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67351	Thank you. The Committee on Regional and Local Self-Government. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club respected Jagoda Majska-Martincevic's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67352	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister and Mr. Secretary of State, gentlemen of the Ministry of Culture. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will in any way support this Final Bill on Theatres, which, as you all know and know, the Croatian public has been very much of a discussion, reluctance, proposals and all of those other driving elements. We are deeply convinced of the final improvement of this law. I would like to start by saying that the Ministry of Culture and Mr. Minister Biskupić have taken this law extremely seriously. It's been a long time talking to the profession in all the meetings. Almost everything was represented, almost all the profiles of theatre employees. Of course, from the most numerous, which means primarily actors, singers, players, dancers to those who run theatres in all forms and forms of theatre management, i.e. I say theatre formations, national theatres, city theatres, private theatres, groups, everything that makes theater reality and theater reality. We are extremely pleased to have reached the maximum agreement and that all the compromises have been bridged, all the disagreements are smoothed, so that the very ones to whom this Law applies would be satisfied, but that perhaps one more natural, and certainly more effective way to live in the future. It should not be forgotten that exactly the Law on Theatres in 1991 was one of the first laws to be passed that had its shortcomings, but unfortunately he did not live in practice as it was meant to be. We therefore assume that today's bill, which differs greatly from that, will find the right pathways, and above all, people who will implement it in order to achieve two basic laws intensities. At the same time, he encourages and protects. He encourages some new relations in theatres between the people who lead them and the people who, I'm going to say it so conditionally little, not at all persuasively producing art. At the same time, however, it protects just those who produce this art. And that means actors, singers, dancers, and not all of them. So far, this has not been the case, and I will try to explain by some points what, in fact, what are the differences, or what is this law going to do to make a better life? First of all, it seems to us that the change of administrative councils to theatre councils is one very appropriate and natural, not only titles, but also the character of those bodies that will naturally have permanent supervision, but which, by the composition of their members and we hope that these members will be elected in accordance with their respective professions. So that these members will, in a certain way, be a bond, a bridge between the founders and those who govern theatres, that these people, by their experience, by their honesty, will know how to warn about possible deviations, possible failures, and try to give advice on how to solve or bridge some problems. In this regard, we have prevailed over that whole opposition on the boards of directors and I think that theatre councils are not only essential, but even in their own name they have one meaning a little old-fashioned, a little bit traditional that once lived in the theatre, have exactly the same function and will have such moral support that will only benefit theatre workers. What's very important is that, it's a solution to working relationships, conflict of interest and competition of theatre workers with theatre. In Article 43(2), which refers to years of work after which the individuals, i.e. directors, are obliged to offer the Treaty on working indefinitely, the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community will submit an amendment that will say that ballet and dance, theatre artists receive this Treaty on working indefinitely after 16 years. They're the only exception. Because of the nature of their profession they are much older and must retire and the other artists after 20 years of work. Why was that amendment necessary? In order not to limit ourselves to artists of drama, opera and orchestra, but to all the other professions of art that make up the theatre, for example stageographers, they are costumeographers and we believe that they must also enter this protected category after 20 years of work. Furthermore, it is very important to say that the conflict of interest of this law will be disabled, especially in the competition of some individuals with themselves to say so. It sounds rather strange, however, this law will arrange that members, constantly employed members of the theatre, cannot have their own private theatres, which has not been the case so far, for example, that employees in a certain kind of theatre, I would not now have called them there are several of their own private theatres which actually competed with themselves on the market, with the audience, with colleagues and of course had to change. I would also say that this theatre law if it comes to life in all its elements as it is presented that it will in any case represent the winnings primarily for the theatre, for the theatre activity. He will protect those who have earned this protection primarily by their work of art, but he will, as someone very handsomely said at a working group meeting, make it possible to blow. It will allow for a leak, so the ventilation of the theatre fold is due to young people. The young will have a greater possibility of hiring for 4 years, at 2 years, exclusively for one year per project. A greater fluctuation will be provided which it was not today. It has been known that young people become old in that waiting until someone retires or dies, and that is how it seems to me that we are all together with a lot of effort and with the great merits of the Ministry of Culture and Minister Biskupić, here is a law that will first and foremost please the living people, artists, theatre, theatre and future of all this. In this sense, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will certainly support this proposal for a final law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67353	Thank you. The club of representatives of the HNS respected representative Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67354	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I am pleased to note that this law, in a purely political sense, represents significant progress. For the first time, I actually see in these two and a half years that the first reading was at least as bile as it was, even though it was in moments and offensive first reading gave a significant result. This text of the law we received in the second reading differs significantly from the first reading. It is appreciated, most of it let me correct myself a little, most of the remarks that have appeared here in the Assembly, and most of the remarks at least for those I know who have arrived by theatre staff and concerning the social status of the people in the theatre, the possibility of conflict of interest in this activity. The first thing that I think is extremely good is that the term, but not only the term and term but also the contents of the administrative council of the institution, all institutions have an administrative council and the Law on Theatre has been removed and the theatre council has been included, which not only by name but also by the structure and competences, gives the guarantee that there will be no only extended hand of power that will eventually discipline historical and political surprises, but there will also be an expert body that will be able to both by its integrity and artistic and personal assistance to the home that can be told by the supervision, not by which it manages. They're back in law school, which is good. especially for smaller environments that I can't afford to have professional theatres that actually have cultural life depending on the possibility of hosting groups and theatres from larger backgrounds, and have organisational and technical opportunities to spend theatre life in their cities. The funding criteria have been clarified. I can't say that at the HNS club we fully agree with these funding criteria. Namely, there are national theatres, not one or more of them, and only once is the state owned 51%. On the one hand there's kind of working... I understand the position of the Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb, but it is different from everyone else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it should be accepted that as for Zagreb, HNK is the most important institution, the central institution which is also geographically located in the city center, it is the same for Rijeka, it is the same for Osijek, it is the same for Split, and perhaps for some other cities. And we see no particular reason why the share of the founding share would not be solved in the same or similar way in these cities as it is being solved in Zagreb. Significantly and significantly improved is that the applicant who is traditionally the head of the Croatian theatre is probably from the first ideas that theatre activity should be regulated legally in Croatia, that the applicant is again a key person in the theatre. Director, his business director is his assistant who's being put on his proposal and he's coming and going with him. I think it's the only normal solution, because the theater, however you look at it, is not a company and it can't be a company and it doesn't have to be a company, in addition to these business functions that it has, of course. But there's something more in it, something more valuable, something more important and historically significant. So it seems to me that this solution is significantly better than what was proposed in the first reading. New solutions to the conflict of interest are also offered, so competition between itself and the home in which it is done, which is one of the pains not only of theatre life in Croatia but also in the area of higher education is the problem in the area, and in other areas, especially social activities. The solution offered here in the text of the law is that indents and his assistants cannot work in other houses. We think it's a good solution and we don't think the committee's proposal should be accepted. Namely, the intensifier and his assistants have their own artistic seal, what they are able to accomplish in the house where they work. It is totally unacceptable for me that a man who manages a large theatre such as Zagrebačka or Rijeka can work two, three months elsewhere, achieve his artistic ambitions, give his own as the artistic seal says here, and his theatre is without the first man. Well, it's just an interpretation that he doesn't really need it. What do they need it for? If two months can work without it and two more can work, then two more and so on. The position of artists in the social sense has been significantly improved. And after the adoption of this law I assume that with all these changes will be accepted, artists will still be in a different position than other workers in Croatia. In other places, if three years in a row you have a contract to work for a certain time after three years, you will be passed indefinitely. That's not the case here. But the activity is specific, and let's hope that these solutions will actually guarantee the artists social security, especially those after 16 years, as proposed here, after 16 years of work that can actually be difficult without some major earthquakes to change the environment. In Article 25 and Article 31, the appointment of elections, i.e. the appointment of indents and directors, and Article 31 is regulated. The Theatre Council. For all theaters, this appointment is being made by the representative bodies of the founder, so the city, I don't know who it is, the county. The government does so for national theatres. Wouldn't it make sense for the decision level to get even? If the representative body does so, it should also be done at national level by the representative body, i.e. This Parliament. If the executive authority does so, then the regional and city authorities should also be subject to executive authority, so the city's headship. This seems a non-consistent solution to me as if there is no trust in the city's headship for example of the City of Split. But the Government of the Republic of Croatia can perfectly do so on behalf of the City of Split or another city. Article 48 regulates the prevention of competition of theatre workers with theatre and is proposed that artists and other theatre workers may work in other institutions or theatre groups, with the prior written consent of the intensifier or director. Consent must contain the conditions for the performance of certain tasks. I think there should be an explanation and a saying if it doesn't collude with the program of work and the interests of the parent home, because that's what's actually happening. All in all, I think it is necessary to accept the proposal's will to listen, listen and accept proposals that go towards improving the normative action of this segment of culture. In line with this club, the Croatian People's Party will join in supporting this law with another repeated note that we feel it is not good for the main people of theatres to be able to work in another house at a time as they operate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67355	Thank you. National Minority Representatives' Club, Honored Representative Nikola Mak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67356	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with dear and distinguished associates. We have, or at this very moment, the 91st Theatre Law, which was passed under very dramatic circumstances in the basement of INA in December 91st, then there were three smaller novels and he is currently in effect. What I'm saying is that it was a modern law that introduced a significant newspaper into this significant social activity, and I mean first of all, the principle of the re-election of artists, which was a small revolution in the previous civilised approach to theatre art and theatre life at all. Unfortunately, this revolutionary change that was to be improved, the liveliness of the artistic bodies was not consistently applied. Some theatres applied it, some theatres did not, there was no sanctions, so what is now repeated and what is commended here in several exhibitions should then be applied consistently. We appreciate that it is a good thing that a whole new law is passed, which is not going to change and supplement, and what is kept in this new law by a number of good postulates not in the same text, but in a similar way and therefore these good things from this to today or to tomorrow's law are also in this new law, and I think that we will have a clean and solid legal framework for this significant social activity which is otherwise in itself a mess, and so are artists and so should be. A serious effort has been made, a conscious effort, a law is well-complicated, and it's generally good with some of the doubts that I would raise at this time. I still have the HNK Zagreb issue and three other national theatres. If in law we said we had four national theatres, I'm asking myself a question and why we didn't do it financially, then in some way we decided as we set for one national theatre. I respect all the arguments for HNK in Zagreb, but the HNK in Split and Rijeka and Osijek are no different by structure. Osijek doesn't have the only ballet, say, but Rijeka and... All right, Tony, we'll leave now with the study if it's, uh, we're trying in Osijek if it is. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But here, we have ballet, for example. I'm not asking this question polemically, I'm asking this question from the point of view let's say regionalism, because the HNK in Osijek, Rijeka and Split are not only Osijek, Rijeka and Split, but they perform a theatre mission both outside of their headquarters or bringing an audience into their representative, comfortable buildings. So one full, one full theater life. And now why the rich Zagreb is really rich, and now I don't want to go into political connotations that are sometimes maliced about Zagreb, there are money, it participates with 49% or I don't know 51.49% and these three theatres are declared national, national theatres. In my opinion, or should not then be called national theatres, but say we have a national theatre and a state is participating in it together with the city. I mean... the theater man, I mean who doesn't know me, I'm saying it because I've lived with that problem in Osijek for as long as I've known about myself, so that problem will be to you, too, dear gentlemen, for a long time on your back and on your wallpaper. So that's my question, that's my one question to all of us and the people of the Ministry of Culture. If we have said in one article clear and loud national theatres four, then in one other place we are talking about the funding ratio for only one theatre between the state and the city. That's my dilemma about this HNK. Then I would pray, and I would like to warn you of article 18 of paragraph 1. The Founder cannot regulate the relationship of funds through the statutes. I don't know if you've missed it or if you've... can by decision, by instrument of establishment, he can by mutual agreement, but the statutes bring an independent theatre council without confirmation from the founder. So I think that formula, that it's wrong because it doesn't stand, is legally not standing. If you're going to convince me that you have some other argument, I'll probably accept it. Then we have in Article 19(2) the term "dramic artists" appeared for the first time, and by then and at the beginning of the law is talked about "light" and "music-scene" activities and even "nomotechnically said" in the following text: "light and musical-scient artists". Now all of a sudden, when I get to Article 19, we have one drama artist, not more stage artists. The same is repeated in Article 23, and there is one more place in which I will say a little later, where there is a serious dichotomy with puppets, with musicals and with operas when we talk about champions, but I will say it in particular in one sentence. My question remains and I will remain in doubt, director and business director. I also accept that since I was the director of one theatre, I absolutely accept that if it comes to urban and municipal, inter-municipal theatres should be an artistic person. And then it's the seal of the theater. It's undeniable. And now there's a business director that I'm pleading for, but he's an assistant director, and in one place he appears as the reporter of the report. And we said that the director was responsible, the inident and the director that they were also responsible for the legality of the work. Therefore, if he is responsible for the legality of work, he is also responsible for the work of his business director. And I stress, he is in the legal text highlighted as an assistant assistant, or director. I did for that function, but I'm asking you to clear it up a little bit, so let's see... Because otherwise, you know, we've just introduced a theater council. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We used to have an optional art council that could have been and didn't have to be. An intensifier, or principal, formed it. Now we have a mandatory theatre council, we have an indent, we have a manager of certain branches of music, drama, etc., and we have a business director. Watch out now, the theatre is a very complex mechanism and therefore in that theater we now have at least 5.6 functions that will normally have to be settled and clarified, etc. But listen, as soon as you have so many legal options, there's a possibility that something's not going well. So I am for this business director, but not in the part where he reports to the founder. An intensifier, or director, should report to me because he is responsible for the legality of the work and therefore for the work of his assistant. The term art affairs or artistic activities in Article 30 of that conflict of interest. That's where we have to take care that we can have a poet, we can have a dramatist, we can have someone who doesn't matter who, the dramatist has, but I don't think has a direct connection. And we, when we say artistically, limit him in any of his activities, his artistic activities, his creative activities. In my view, therefore, it would be a more appropriate expression of theatre activity. Theatre Council, I'm pushing for this formulation to remain in relation to theatre workers. In my opinion, theatre workers have nothing to look for in the theatre council. The theatre council is the council to which the founder controls, but it must be made up of artists, any cultural workers and theatre workers outside, which the founder appoints, any of those in the smaller part that... So, heard with the lady has some proposal and that theatre workers participate in the election. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I'm for this formula that's here. The theatre council in article 32 lacks a decision in the theatre council. The law should, it must not be left to the statute, so one will settle it like this, the other one and then we will have administrative disputes, some other disputes, etc. So, let's say the way the theatre council decides. Most of it's half-breed, two-thirds majority, etc. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day To whom a complaint goes if someone is dissatisfied with the decision of the commission and the inident, or director. It doesn't say. It doesn't say. If it's not in the law, then we can't say it's meant to be. If we already have a detailed record of what the theatre council is doing, then let's put that on. We resolve the appeal because we have very unpleasant, very painful examples from the recent past that have cost this country dearly, ultimately, where in some way, I am now not going to give an assessment of myself and not willingly, it comes to some prominent artists simply for example. They're not at the will of the circle that auditioned. So, who's the appeal coming to? And now we come to article 45, theater champion. We've only got drama, we've only got opera and we've only got ballet. What about the puppets, what about the musical, and what about the opera? If it's considered a gram and a puppeteer, fine, but that should be said somewhere in the law. If it is considered a musical stage and opera, but it is not Mr. Selem or Mrs. Jagoda and I to consider it, but it must be regulated legally. So these are the little things that are one good grade that I can give that law is, I'm almost done. And then at the end of the 60 days for harmonising the statutes, and 90 days for the minister to prescribe the regulations of this law. Well, it can't be 60 days of statute, and then those remaining 30 days, we're going to change that statute because the minister by law is going to pass the regulations on, I don't know, all those things that are there. Therefore, I believe that it is necessary to harmonise it in order for these terms to be, however, I believe that the statute must, that it must have a longer deadline for harmonisation than it is for the adoption of the rules. Because the rules will very much regulate the very specific, practical issues that belong in the statute and are not the place in the law. There, the law is whole, in principle good, should only iron it a little bit and be long-lasting, to apply it, and the Club of National Minorities will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67357	Thank you. For PGS's club...... And I'm sorry, it was a correction to an incorrect quote. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67358	Your Honor, Mr. President, I am correcting the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague regarding the greatest legal failure in this law. The biggest failure in this Law is contained in Articles 58 and 59, and this is the introduction of a new legal institute, an institution of lawlessness. According to Article 59, this Law enters into force 8 days from the day of its publication in "The People's Newspaper" and the current law ceases to apply. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So it's the biggest legal failure and one contribution to what we already have right, to introduce a new institute, a time of lawlessness. So, when this law is published in "The People's News" this valid one won't be worth it anymore, and then we get time for lawlessness. I haven't seen it anywhere in legal practice yet, but it's a great honor for this innovation. The time of lawlessness has been introduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67359	Well, time of lawlessness, you say? And is that a correction to an incorrect claim? Did Agent Mak, speaking on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, claim that these legal solutions represent a time of lawlessness and that you are correcting it? ... I wasn't listening. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And that's the biggest leak. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So it's an incorrect claim from MP Mak that something else is the biggest failure. That's very interesting. And at the Theatre Law, there are dramatic elements in other... And respected representative Ivo Banac, PGS Representative Club, SBHS and MDS. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67361	Dear Mr. President, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. The final proposal of the Law on Theatres is in our opinion very, very good, we will support it, but we still have a few remarks, something that should be even stronger emphasized and some things that may not be best solved in this legislative proposal. As regards Article 3(2), which speaks of theatre activity and defines it as the activity of theatres and theatre groups, we believe that this is too limited. We believe that theatre activities other than theatres, theatre groups and theatre houses are performed by independent artists. In fact, at this point, we have at least 289 independent artists who are certainly performing theatre activities. Apart from the actors there are, which I think is very important directors, dramatics, stageographers, costume designers, they are rarely engaged, dancers, modern, classical ballet, orchestral artists. I know that only two Croatian directors at the moment are... some theatre as directors, some more art directors, advisers at the cobwebs, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If this law intends to eliminate the freemen, I don't know what's going to be of those deficiting and slightly disappearing professions anyway, but I'm going to talk about this at some other points. If we do not law that theatre activities are performed by independent artists, then they are simply outside the law, and we cannot say that most directors and others do not perform theatre activities. The legislator’s arguments on why independent artists cannot be inside is that they have their own rules of activity, but I see no reason not to mention it in this article, in Article 3(2). From Articles 21 to 30, it has been resolved very, very well, in a similar way to solving the problems of organisations and governance in many countries in Europe, I think there is nothing special to add. We have problems in Article 30. To read: "Intendant, assistant intendant, artistic director and director and assistant director of the public theatre and public theatre family during the term of office cannot perform artistic activities outside the theatre or theatre family." I don't think we should give in to the pressures, and already there are, that directors and intensities can act outside their homes during the term of office. The custom that directors walk around and work for a few months outside the house is largely generated by the current chaos in our theaters. All-powerful directors who are never in the workplace must become the past because if an artist's indent or director, and should be, he should be in the theater where he is employed if he has time from the many management day-to-day and strategic jobs he performs for the house he heads. The work in the institution itself is desirable because he, so that the artistic seal is the theatre where he works, which is why he was finally elected. But that's the thing that needs to be supported by the Theatre Council so that we don't have all the little dictators doing everything that matters most in the houses that are headed. Of course, the artistic career of the director or indent will not be stopped even though such comments are heard by some individuals. If someone thinks his career is gonna stop, then it's better not to take a job like that. No one's forcing anyone to be an intensifier or a director of the theater. It's a matter of free will. The head of the house must be in the house. If the agent and director are walking around how can we expect other employees not to? But we already have an amendment to this article proposed by the Committee on Education and Culture, and I think, in accordance with the opinions of some previous speakers, that we should not accept this amendment. The amendment proposed by the Committee states that they could act, so that applicants could act with the approval of the Theatre Council, that it is said that these persons would not be able to act during the term of their term of office if the current version of this article was accepted. I don't think it's just standing there, people are acting, but of course in a house where they're employed, and that means they'd give their art stamps right in that house, and they can't act like that outside. And this amendment is also not precise enough. No one thinks of blocking someone's art career if it's happening in another sphere. Just as a little bit of an indent may be a poet, no one can forbid him to publish his songs outside the theater. After all, Parliamentarians sometimes publish books or songs, and it does not occur to anyone to forbid it. One HNK, for example. It can't work if his indent goes to two months to direct the show into another house or act in another theater. In all these jobs there must be at least full-time, and with full concentration otherwise the mechanism simply cannot function or function badly and at the expense of the theatre. The possibility that the theatre council approves the departure of the management structure to work in another institution can again lead to what we have for decades already, and that is actually encouraging the principles for you, who brought the theatre to such low branches in Croatia. Also, if the executives are not in the house and work elsewhere, the artists have a lot of right to say if the director can and I haven't done anything again to bring order to theatres. And it is too often in theatres especially for those in Zagreb it is impossible to collect rehearsals because the artist simply does not exist. They're working somewhere else. Article 31 relating to the Theatre Council. I don't think it's all bad done here, though it's done well except for one thing. I believe the artist who is employed at the theatre is in a clear conflict of interest if he is also a member of the theatre council. The union insisted that they were artists, which is actually about actors who are employed in the theatre council in order to protect their numerous interests. But I think it's very unhealthy. That way, the employee controls his own director and it can always lead to the same system again, I tell you to me, and it's really been too much. The real employees protect their union, and I think that's perfect enough. An artist signs a contract to perform his artistic activity, to act or direct, or dance, or sing, rather than control his employer. I will read Article 41(2): "The theatre artists in public theatres and public theatre groups shall establish a working relationship by concluding a work contract for a certain period of time, as a rule for four years and, where necessary, a project or programme and for a shorter period but not less than two years. Exceptionally, the contract of work can be concluded for a year with the explanation of the intensities or directors and the consent of theatre councils." I think this item is very, very significant and that the content itself says that the main word here was actually led by actors. I think this is a union concession, too. It is ineffective and will brake the fluctuation and keep the inaccessibility in most closed and immobilized ensembles. The only healthy solution is a compromise that artists are employed for one, two or four years. All of this is written in my opinion, acting neglect and exaggeration. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. "A theatre artist, after sixteen years of working in theatre or theatre family, is obliged to offer a contract of work indefinitely." I think this is one of the bigger problems in this bill. So far, it has been said that after 25 years in the case of a drama artist, 20 years if it is an opera artist and 18 years if it is a ballet artist, he must offer a contract indefinitely. This reduction to 16 years will lead to the fact that we will have an old theater, that we will not allow young people to enter the theatre and, in view of Article 41, in which, in very rare situations, we can offer a contract for a year, it will result in very, very difficult consequences. In fact, independent artists are getting less and less young, so the only alternative will be the stock market and then I'm afraid of giving up the profession. In doing so, we're going to the old state on the payroll for 27 years, and they may not be motivated to work offered. With two articles above, we stop the excellence that is recorded in the preamble of most theatre laws, decrees, regulations in Europe in favour of the protection of the elderly. It can happen that because we have all artists in one theater indefinitely for years, we can't actually accept any young artist on the contract. In the long term, the consequences of such a policy will be very bad. I suggest that the border be 20 for drama, 18 for opera and dance artists. Article 49 refers to the fact that persons employed by a public theatre or a public theatre group may not be founders or directors of a private theatre and a private theatre group for a period of no longer than one year. I think this has to stay, that it can't be changed in any way and that this should be supported because if we don't support this... will continue to grow. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, against this one will be the leaders of various groups who actually launder a bunch of our money in such groups. The thing is that artists in theaters have become unfair competition to themselves. If, for example, the whole of Gabriela works for a theater group who plays in Gavelle. Also, such an artist from two sides comes to funding at a source. For him, the city or state separates about 100,000 kunas gross per year for wages, contributions and other donations, and then also asks for money for a program for his private family. And the quality of these plays is not controlled by anyone. And then the laws of the market appear necessarily and the level of services falls. I think if we want to prevent a conflict of interest in the theatre, and this proposal of the Law on Theatres obviously wants it. It should be supported in this part. That's what the PGS Club, SBHS and MDS will do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67362	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Jagoda Maja Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67363	... /The speech was subsequently included./... that Mr. MP had read the conclusions and amendments of the Committee, if he had listened to the presentation of Mr. President of the Committee, Mr. Selem and mine on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club then he would not have commented on this article 43 on 16 years of theatre artist in all profiles. That's exactly what we changed. We gave it 16 years because of the specifics of the profession to a ballet and dance theatre artist and everyone else, so all other theatre employees, dramatic, opera, orchestral, costumeographers, directors and so on and so on, will be offered a contract of work indefinitely after 20 years. We said all that 10 minutes ago. I'm sorry you didn't hear.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67364	For SDP's club, respected representative Antun Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67365	Mr. President, colleagues from the Ministry of Culture, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club will not object to the adoption of this Act. Why won't he object? Because the way it is is not bad, but is the main question that was the purpose of passing this law? And as it began with the first reading, indeed, that purpose eventually decreased greatly. It actually shrunk down to what was said here in this one, and here in the assembly and outside. And I really think that in this respect we should now commend the co-operation of the Ministry of Culture which has accepted almost all these remarks. Of course, the only question that was really true was the reason for the adoption of the new law, since many could simply go to correct the existing law, which was also passed long ago. So not in an earlier term before this Ministry of Culture. And where it would be clear, more clearly, how gradual changes can be made to correct what is really wrong without getting into the risks of opening up questions and those things that we can't measure, their consequences. So in that sense, this Law has some misunderstandings. I'll make them especially prominent afterwards. But now let me say the first thing this law doesn't touch, and the main thing is the subject. She's heard several times from individual representatives who discussed clubs here. It's an actor's fluctuation issue. The question of saying the free circulation of the flow of the entire artistic staff that appears next to the theatre, which occurs in both musical and stage activities or only stage activities. Unfortunately, it appears this way as a problem. Whatever law we pass after some time is stifled by the ansambl since it cannot be received new because it is filled, because there is no more funds for new jobs and at the same time cannot be the proper quality of performances or I mean everything the theatre has to perform from the existing to say the human, human resources that are at that moment in the theatre. This cannot be solved by the Law of Theatre. This may be a little tempered or improved and go with the amendments that will be here, probably now is a better situation than it was in the original text of the promoter. But it can't be solved by that law. This should be resolved by the Mandatory Relations Act. That's how it was once tried. However, this was not widely accepted at the time. Maybe it wasn't prepared enough. It may not have been explained enough, but the basic point is that whoever finishes the academy, who has qualified for theatre activity in one way or another, can from his fee, from his occasional engagements, and from his part-time internships and retirement and health care in some positive proportion so that the theatre can always find a new actor for a particular performance. To lose what we are constantly competing in terms of conflicts of interest that pay receives in one place, it works on another because then it ceases to be so important. For such a single law, unfortunately, even in the last term, although we tried we didn't get enough public understanding and now we haven't even raised it as a question. And in fact, that's the only question. How to avoid that kind of market that's known to a fellow Banca probably from America where an actor is, we'll only take an actor, actually if he doesn't act then he washes dishes and doesn't have any social security and that kind of thing to say the file in which an actor once he's hired doesn't have to act or there's a theatre need to hire him and I think he's still getting paid. Meanwhile, the younger ones can't go forward because they're closed jobs. This is the key problem of a possible Law on Theatres. The problem here, unfortunately, could not be solved. It is clear to me that he could not have been resolved because it would have been in that case a law which the Ministry of Culture would have to bring together with the Ministry of Finance and with a whole series of other actors who would have to understand the characteristics of this work and the main problem. That's the basic problem. How are we going to choose ingenuity? Will we have any greater or less luck? In this sense, whether the theatre life in Croatia will be better or worse, it is almost impossible for any law to resolve. That, as I say, depends on the abilities of the people who run the theaters. It depends on the minds of those who set them, and it is always both a person and a person who determines the character of theatre and the character of theatre life. The law can fix things there, he's fixed it, but I don't think he can fix it. Good, I am not going to repeat now the whole argument most fully presented by my colleague Vuljanic and he said what changed in the Law compared to the first reading and returned and aligned with the remarks that were made. So there's no need for that. But I want to point out the following, which is that the better solution is to the matter of intelligence. He's given more freedom. But I don't think that's going to follow the certainty that we're going to have a theater like this, better or worse. Question is, who are we asking? And here I notice one actually running away from the responsibility that we're setting up that I don't like and that I don't think is adequately solved. On the issue of HNK, Zagreb's HNK especially. There, therefore, the indent on the basis of a previous opinion or so by a theatre council and, on a proposal from the Minister of Culture and Mayors, appointed the Government. I must say, honestly, I don't understand what the mayor of Zagreb has to do here. Now I don't think of any particular mayor or one who's today or who's coming tomorrow because it's an essential job of the Minister of Culture and even in some way his right, his duty to propose an intensifier of the National Theatre. I don't know what else is? And that is something that he cannot share with a person who is not placed in that place because it represents that I should say the cultural interest of any city of Zagreb, whether Croatia as a whole and the state as a whole. The mayor has nothing to do with it. In another way, it can be expressed the right of Zagreb to take a significant part in the budgeting of the HNK budget, in another way to resolve its interest and so on. But to think that they have to agree on who they're going to name as the indent it's a pure non-sensual. Besides, you didn't predict what would happen if I couldn't make a deal. Then we won't be able to name an intensifier. Let's see, because we're not going to give any special amendments here, but we warn you that this is simply even in the right sense non-sensual, and in a political sense it's something that doesn't come from the character of the relationship between the indent and the culture minister who is always to a certain extent and personal. The Committee's amendments tried to fix some things, and with the spirit and direction of those repairs, I would agree. It says here that most votes six and one abstentions passed the bill. I've been held back, and now you'll see why I've been held back, and maybe you'll hold back too. I don't understand amendment one, I literally don't understand how to say grammar, technical and mental meaning because I don't know what it means. Take a good look at him, the intensifier, the assistant intensifier, etc. that not all of them can act and perform artistic activities outside the theatre, that is, the theatre group only with the agreement of the theatre council, which must, in each case, contain the conditions for performing such tasks. What does this mean? This doesn't mean anything. If you mean by consent, then you should be who you have to be, because that's who. But it's also non-sensory, which I suppose determines some conditions. This just doesn't mean anything grammatically. I'm warning you about that, so please, maybe there's a tipfeller somewhere, and I can't decrypt it. But this sentence doesn't mean anything. So look, and now we're going back to what's often been pointed out here, and I think it's a better amendment, an amendment given by the board that somehow differentiates those who do ballet and dance and where in some ways the century is more artistically shorter than these others. However, anyone who mentioned this actually mentioned it again in that global context that everyone and with this aware that actually the theatre is closing with a therefore potential team that will potentially be older and older and less likely to open up to the younger ones entering the theater. That's what we meet all the time and, unfortunately, we don't deal with it this way. I repeat, maybe this can be fixed with a tipfeller. Maybe there's not one here, but there's a lot of lame words, too, and I don't know it, but I guess that would save it. Thus, not with one mention, therefore, that the law unfortunately did not have itself, the legislator of the law of courage to deal with the main problem and solve it in the way I repeat was once tried, and we could not solve it because he sought broad and social consent and broader understanding of artistic staff and in theatres and beyond, and of course a different understanding from the Ministry of Finance regarding a policy that would actually act in this activity less important whether someone is carrying out this activity in a permanent working relationship or on occasional engagements. That's the main point that a potential law should go. In that sense, I'll conclude. The SDP will not object to the adoption of this law, but, therefore, we must be aware and only in one place to forgive me to say if I have time left when the theatre councils are appointed then you should certainly avoid it and make such an amendment and there is that they are appointed not by members of the county bodies, or the City of Zagreb, but only by public cultural employees because there is no need to be officials and officials inside. They're in charge of the founder's logic over the theater anyway. So there's no need for them to be inside. This should, in the sense of the amendment, be limited exclusively to those who are therefore outside the theatre itself, but also to outside the body of the administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67366	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67367	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm correcting two incorrect allegations. The first is about the appointment of the Croatian National Theatre intensities, because Mr Vujic told him what he has to do here, because the proposal goes to the proposal of the Minister of Culture and the Mayor of the City of Zagreb, the Government. So there is something to do about the fact that the City of Zagreb becomes a co-owner of 49%, so as a representative of co-owners, it must participate in the appointment process, and you, if you disagree with Bandic, can agree to that. Now second, there's another false assumption. I don't know how I'm gonna fix that. The amendment says he doesn't understand mentally. In a mental sense, he doesn't understand the amendment. I don't know how to fix that. Let him explain it to us. In a mental sense, I don't understand the amendment. I don't know about that, but it's very difficult in a mental sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67368	Tipefeller. All right, Mr. Selem, why don't you tell me what that guy is to make that clear?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67369	Intent, assistant intendant, artistic director, director. The director, intensifier and assistant director of the public theatre, the public theatre group during the term of office, wrote, "I can't do it here anymore," "I can't do it anymore," "I can't do it anymore," "I can't do it anymore," "I can't do it here" "I can't do it anymore" "I can't do it"" "I can't do it"" "I can't do it"" "I can't do it"" "I can't do it anymore""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""" It says here who it is is a tipefeller who must, in each case, think of the agreement of the theatre council as containing the conditions for performing such tasks. This means that the theatre council prescribes how long it can be absent, what kind, how and where such jobs can work. The wording is my God a little hearing, but as it is, it's okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67370	So that's just the word "no" left behind? Okay. 10.43 timed out for application 10 minutes per wheel. Club of HSP MPs, respected representative Miroslav Rožic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67371	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State. As my predecessor, Vujic, was very funny on behalf of the SDP Club and the former culture minister, decided that the SDP Club would not object to the adoption of this law, so I will also say on behalf of the HSP Club that the HSP club will not object to the adoption of this law, but will oppose the adoption of amendments to the Committee on Culture and Education. It is therefore already about the amendments that are spoken of here, and above all this is about this indent, assistant artistic director and director, and director and assistant director of public, public theatre and public theatre, whatever that means, I will ask the secretary of state to explain to me, during the term of office, I cannot act and perform artistic affairs outside the theatre. It is perhaps one of the key things for the operation of the theatre that this law presupposes to edit and facilitate it. It is not certainly against excellence, but is aimed at introducing a certain order, to introduce a certain order in the work of the theatre. First of all, various experts in any part of the work, regardless of whether it is a theatre, whether it is cultural activity at all or any other activity, understand whether it is the hospital director, namely health care or anything else, realizes that the responsibility they assume when they run for their role in their home. Mr. President, I would ask you indeed if you could warn fellow MPs that if you don't want to listen to me, it's completely understandable. But I wish they wouldn't bother me.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67372	So don't interfere!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67373	So this is an opportunity and a proposal in this law that experts of all professions who want to run within their homes once for managerial duties, for the duties of managing an institution in which they work realize that they must choose between their artistic, professional, medical, whatever you want engagement and managerial engagement in that same house. Finally, being a director is not some duty ad infinitum, but it is a duty to be elected for 4 years, so in those 4 years, not every manager of the theatre, every indent, every manager, every assistant of the Institute, director, assistant director, etc. you must a little suppress your artistic interest in other interests towards other houses and your artistic interest and your artistic disposition, i.e. to place your artistic values on the disposition of your house in and for 4 years as director. And then, of course, when the director is not involved and co-operated with other theatres. Therefore, what was the intensity of the law was good intensities, and we welcome and support that intensity. We do not want to support the amendment in which we are actually going to enable people to do double functions again, or the greater the nonsension, to be employed or not only employed, but to lead their house and go to 6 months to direct the show into another house. And in this way, they leave out their theater who knows what and in any way, whether they do it with permission or without the permission of that Theatre Council. Unimportantly, this attempt by Solomonian solution to introduce this permission through the theatre council is actually going to open up a practice so far. Because don't be angry, I will express my suspicion in, or my belief in one feature in the Croats, and that is to make every exception a rule. So is the one proposed by the board. So much for that part. But let us take some more notes in order. First of all, I have already noted this in the opening section, Article 8 says that private theatres and private theatre families can be established as institutions, companies and art organisations. So I'm asking actually why not as an association? Yeah? Or if this art organization refers to associations, then he would pray that instead of the organization, the word "association". Furthermore, in what has drawn our attention to us in the HSP Club, and what we were most concerned about was, among other things, the funding for the work of theatres that were set out in Article 14 of this final bill, which I must say here on the way that it has really been changed to such a large extent since that first bill, that it has just caused this change in attitude from the first reading to the second where we have opposed the adoption of this law in the first reading, and now we will not object. As far as funding is concerned, it says here that the funds for the work of theatres and theatre families can also be provided from the revenues achieved by their activities, from foundations, sponsorship, gifts and what I have to particularly apostrophy here and from other elections in accordance with the law. In fact, at the HSP club, we're being tortured by these other sources in accordance with the law. This leaves us with the possibility that, for example, National theatre house or group Croatian National Theatre, for example, anywhere in Osijek or Zagreb or in Rijeka legally rents its own space, for example for various events that are now popularly referred to in the Croatian Colloquial language, so whatever it means, from fashion magazines, events and everything else. So it's actually happening that taxpayers pay for the theater to play shows in it, and in fact there's a company of telephones, telecommunications not to say which, because it has its own Christmas home in that theater. Of course, the power, the heat, and it's all running out. It's all paid for by a city where it works or what part of it's a national theater, and renting space certainly goes to the theater. That day of play will not be played and therefore we believe that this vague formulation from other sources in accordance with the law should not actually stand in law because it is not defined what other sources are, and these other sources certainly leave the possibility of commercialising theatre space at the expense of the audience and the programme of the theatre. Furthermore, Article 17 mentions public theatre groups, I have already said about it, so public theatres and public theatre families, although I understand what the promoter really wants to say to the public theatre family, I would ask Mr. Secretary of State to answer me specifically and explain to me what it is and who it is at this time, let’s say one or three examples in Croatia who are public theatre families and what it really means. I was already talking about Article 30, and I would not want to waste my words or your time, but I would really like to end up with just one last observation regarding these key things that all clubs have been talking about, and this employment in theatres for an indefinite period of time. This form of employment in theatres for an indefinite period of time set out in Article 41, so theatre artists establish a working relationship in public theatres and public theatre groups by working on a specific or indefinite time contract in accordance with the Staff Plan set out in Article 29 of this Law, it is a key point. So I'm actually asking a rhetorical question, how can it be in accordance with the Staff Plan if the intentants, directors and all other management structures, or the management structure, are chosen by the theatre every four years. Who, in effect, determines this personnel plan and according to what and by what criteria. In our opinion, such a proposal and retaining employment indefinitely, we have returned to the 1982 law or we are holding back if you want certain provisions of that time, because contracts indefinitely without any approximate markings who sign that, who actually sign those contracts indefinitely, this law in a certain way is trying to calculate the square of the circle. He is trying to establish a certain compromise between working indefinitely in theatres and working for a certain time, as has been the case so far. So to establish some kind of compromise between the actor being exposed to washing dishes or the actor being actually protected in such a way that he doesn't have to act at all without receiving his salary. So none of what has been discussed in public life for years, cultural life will be resolved if these two provisions remain undefined, because it will not ensure that young actors and young people are re-employed. The principals will have to keep still people they don't want to hold. The directors will have to, the intensifiers will have to dispose of theatre groups where actors can't achieve or refuse to realize the performances they want, and then a key question arises why the applicant is obliged to submit a program if he is unable to actually change his family, or is, but only for a certain time with several actors, while at the same time keeping those with whom his programme cannot be realized. Of course that's one problem and of course that's the problem we all see because all the clubs have talked about it, but it should also be made clear and loud that this bill does not solve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67374	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Jagoda Maja Martincevic. Are you involved?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67376	... One of many incorrect allegations, which seems so very indicative. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] It also says in this law that the applicant is not the manager of what his colleague Rosic kept saying when he referred to a possible conflict of interest. The Intent is an artistic figure, always has, always stayed and will be with us and in the world. That's why there's a business director who won't dance anywhere, sing, play, play, or play, or do anything else. But the indent is not a manager, but he should be an artistic figure by law and practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67377	And the esteemed representative Peter Selem.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67378	Mr. President, I am correcting the incorrect allegations of a respected colleague, Rožić, that accepting the amendment committee would mean that an intensifier or artistic director would go somewhere for 6 months to registrate, conduct or something like that. It shows a lack of knowledge of the technology of theatre work, because if there was a theater in the world that would give someone six months to prepare a play, it would be a truly amazing and amazing precedent. The normal time to prepare a play was conductoral, whether directed for about a month. So about six months you can't... I wasn't interrupting you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And that's not true. You have no idea about the technology of theatre work... Five times a month that's true, but one job is a month max. [[You don't understand.]] No one's gonna give you any more. From the rock over... No one will give you more than a month. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67379	The club of representatives of the HSS, the respected representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67380	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. The final proposal of the Law on Theatres is before us, which is actually a whole new bill of law, and it is good that it is. We at the HSS Club look forward to the fact that our comments on composition and solutions from the original text of the Law, which, if it remained in that text, would lead to many problems in the functioning of theatre life in us, and in particular, would mean the doting of some theatre environments. So after administrative disengagement of the theatre...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67381	Reduce the marble. Slow down.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67382	Thank you very much. So after the administrative shut down of the theatre in the smaller mid-60s, politics would again decree smaller environments and lower the level of cultural life in them. I therefore welcome that theatre houses are once again left as one of the possible modes of performing theatre activity as a public service, as we referred to in the earlier debate. We see that theaters are explicitly defined in the Law, and existing theatres are not questioned. It is to see that it opens up the possibility of redecorating these houses into professional theatres. If the founder decides to do so within 3 years of the entry into force of this Act. Although the deadline for this is appropriate, such a provision appears to be declaring the ministry's intensities that even in smaller environments, theatre life is even more intense and that the environments such as Sibenik, Zadar, Vinkovac, Karlovac and Požega get the theatre as soon as possible. Not only as an object but also as an activity, either in the form of a permanent ensemble or so on. a project of theatre where actors and artistic staff are engaged for a specific period or stage project. However, in order to bring this provision to life, it is necessary for the ministry to be actively involved in these projects, not only at the level of the declaration but in the necessary assistance of these environments to find opportunities for such a quality shift within that time period, because leaving these smaller environments to deal with such increased commitments and additional impact on the local budget will certainly not result in expected shifts. What the situation in Pula testifies about. I propose that the Ministry also include this issue in the reflection of its policy for 2007, not only in terms of providing additional, specific, and financial resources in the positions of financial resources to encourage these projects in the smaller areas and before their formal transformation into public theatres, but also in the logistics and professional support of local administrations in order to implement this declaration. This is fully in line with the provision of Article 2 of this Bill, which says that theatre activity is of interest to the Republic of Croatia, and should also be done not only in those areas where the level is traditionally established but also regionally spread. We do not believe that the founders of these houses have any insight into these intensities, as well as the organisational, programming and financial frameworks that they should provide. It is therefore almost necessary to tour and instruct the environments and to ensure the necessary support. Otherwise, everything will remain at the level of good wishes recorded in the law. This text of the bill is nevertheless in a much better quality than the original text resulting from the adoption of well-intentioned remarks from the present parliamentary debate, as well as the inclusion of a wide range of experts and interested entities in the making of the proposal itself, including representatives and smaller theatre environments. However, we can support the bill in principle. However, it is necessary to point out some situations where corrections are still possible. And for that very reason, the club of representatives of the HSS has submitted three amendments which are, in our opinion, key and which, of course, I will decide whether or not we can fully support this proposal for the Law on Theatres. But we believe that our amendments that I will explain will further contribute to improving the quality of the bill's proposal. It seems to us that Article 28 where the founder is said to be obliged to establish the programme and financial frameworks of the institution for a 4-year period, it is necessary to indicate that these frameworks are considered to be an integral part of the invitation to tender for the appointment of the Institute's Institute's staff or director. Which should not, however, be required for publication in the People's Newspaper, but which are available to candidates for insight. This would strengthen the meaning of these frameworks and force the founders to adopt them carefully and strengthen their strength as benchmarks for potential candidates for indents and directors. We believe that the bill is not consistent and in a unique way the issue of conflict of interest, i.e. banning the competition of employees with their own home institution in which they receive pay. Because while actors and other artistic staff were allowed to do jobs outside the home theater, clearly under certain conditions, it was rigidly and radically prevented for directors to have the same privileges. In this way, a priority is suspected of the principal loyalty of its own institution and prevents the well-deserved artists who are on these functions from expressing themselves artisticly outside the institution they lead. This would almost affect the functioning of our biggest festival events, as well as the constitutional principle of equality. Because our agents and directors and their assistants don't have high-level management contracts with one-off incomes so we can set these limits. It is therefore necessary to determine Article 30. The proposal for a law of harmonisation with the provision of Article 48, clearly with certain corrections. This applies to the second amendment of the HSS Club. In the case of theatre councils, the composition should take care of the real, rather than the declared state. As the provisions on theatre councils apply to theatre houses, some of which do not have theatre artists in their composition, this raises the question of who will represent the institution itself in such a situation, the theatre house in the theatre council. The end of the period referred to in Article 31(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall be the same as the date of entry into force of this Regulation. The proposal for a law to elect a minority of members of that Council among themselves is therefore necessary to add a new provision here to the effect that, in the case of an institution where there are no theatre artists, members of the Council are then elected from the ranks of theatre workers. It is also not resolved what happens if, during the term of office of the Theatre Council, a theatre artist or theatre worker who is a member of the Council ceases to perform tasks at the theatre because, in the nature of things, he would stop his mandate in that body and be elected a new member from the institution. These are three-by-us key amendments that do not endanger the intensity of the law, and we believe that the government will accept them in such a way that we will have a quality Law on Theatre which the HSS Club will support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67383	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative of Jagoda Maja Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67384	Thank you. If you had listened to the report from the board, the report from the Croatian Democratic Community club at the beginning today would have heard that it had just changed that article and that intentaries and directors with consent, that it was proposed that the intensifiers and directors with the consent of the Theatre Council could also work outside the theatre.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67385	Okay, that's the suggestion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67386	I've been discussing the law, not the views of certain clubs. It's in the law just like I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67387	State Secretary Jadran Antolovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67388	Thank you, Mr. President. Namely, let me first thank you for the support that has been put forward, but also to explain some of the issues that have been raised in the debate. Like, for example. the question why do independent artists not appear in the text of the law, especially in the part in which the activity or theatre activity is mentioned? In fact, let me just point out that independent artists cannot carry out their activities, they carry out certain artistic activities within this activity and I will show you exactly what segments they are led by an account so that they may be involved in this activity without questioning their status, i.e. to participate more equally with those theatre employees who are in the context of certain ensembles. Following this particular segment of the law, the question was also asked why are associations not foreseen as those able to carry out theatre activities? I would just say that the Law on Associations clearly states what the purpose of the establishment of an association is, therefore, and does not assume that the association will deal with activities, so we have a special form of association, but associations of artists who, according to the Law on Independent Artists, are called artistic organizations and these are precisely the forms within which theatre activities can be carried out. That's where we also mentioned public theatre groups and it was a question of what it was? We do not have a public theatre company at the moment, but we are thinking that we should not prevent the possibility that the city, the municipalities, the county or even the state should establish a special occasion or simply as a need for a particular public theatre society. In doing so, let me just go back to my own artists and connect to that segment where we propose on which deadlines to conclude a work contract and here we talk about two or four years in an effort and the desire to form our ensembles as we have so far around the repertoire theatre, so also about that program that the intensitant brings with it by winning the contest, or by proposing a program on the occasion of his appointment. It also mentions the staff plan and exactly the staff plan that the applicant proposes to the situation, because we today have a part of theatre artists in the theatre for an indefinite period of time and a part for a certain period of time. Therefore, at the time of the opening of the contest, all the candidates for the Incident know which artists are in one, which in the second status and just for the part that is so to say for a certain time there is possibility and need... Here, I would like to refer to a part of the SDP's stated position in which it is even genderised on the need for legislation, and I would like to remind you that during the previous government, a huge number of public debates and stands have been conducted in which the need for a new law and a more modern framework to regulate this activity has been very clearly identified. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, another part relating to the inclusion of artists who are self-employed and therefore there is the possibility of concluding other types of copyright contracts in which an independent artist who has had the appropriate status under the Law on Independent Artists has paid health and pension contributions. It will never go into the conclusion of a work contract, especially if it is less than a year or two because it leaves its status and opens itself up to problems and an existential issue perhaps more long-term, so it risks and therefore this proposal is in charge of the account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67389	Dear Representative Ivan Chehok on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67390	Mr. President, Secretary of State, Assistant, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. As we pointed out, and in the debate when it was the first reading of this law was the worst when it appeared that politics or politics conflicted over the theatre. It's best when theatres conflict on ethics. Unfortunately, these conflicts of poetry, confrontations or different aesthetic views over the past 15 years have been too little, and because of the very nature of theatres and theatres, perhaps public perception and media interest have more debated those issues that are not related to poetry and aesthetics. I am therefore glad that, at least according to several clubs that have spoken to most clubs so far, we can still achieve less agreement, a general agreement on this new law and I can say immediately on behalf of the club that we will support this text of the law mostly because it is about the law which is here in the second reading that managed to reduce or completely avoid those insufficient to which we as a club referred in the first reading. So, this law that's not insane. This is a law that is not bureaucratic norming one sensitive and by its nature wanted me to admit it or not anyway areas or institutions that resist administration. If some institutions, if some institutions in human society are resisting formal legal administration and normisation, then they are a couple of excellances, including sports but certainly cultural institutions, always in the history of the public authorities because of the fact that, of course, public authorities, according to political power, have also had the power of money, but were, on the other hand, influencing private sources of funding either by looking precisely at some official ideologies, relying on or relying on different aspects, we can say, alternative cultural support. So, too many norms in this area, I think, would be counterproductive, I think, would be more tight around cultural institutions instead of disenfranchising them, rather than allowing these cultural institutions to be established as any other institution when it comes to any area of public action. We therefore consider it good that there is no excessive administration and normisation of the establishment, mainly when it comes to private theatres and theatre groups, because in the first draft of the law the ministry or minister should decide on this. Equally, we think that it is good that there are not too many rigid rules and around the appointments of leaders, however they were called, and then, of course, we can say the disputed provisions so that according to the former proposal, the administrative councils manage the theatre, although when we think about it a little bit, we will see that the theatre councils today are practically just as able to manage it just because we don't call it that now. So it's more like maybe I'd say not a legitimate but lexical provision that's been changed in this law and that I think is now acceptable to all of us. I also think it is good that the ministry has succeeded in achieving how much we see agreements with trade unions and on the status of the employees and artists themselves. We believe that this is something that in every title and mainly in this title, given the fact that unfortunately Croatian culture is still underinvested, given that there is not enough public money but that on the other hand and private sources of funding are not very generous, especially if we compare it with sport or other areas of life. And that is why we believe that there is a particular need for social sensitivity when it comes to workers themselves. Similarly, in our opinion, it is good that the applicant and director now choose their business associates or business director if he wishes to do so as an assistant to the assistant director or assistant director. We believe that the poetry of our theatres was actually permeated because it was crucially determined by the personality of the intensifier and the personality of the director. We are not talking today about the theatre council at the beginning of the 20th century in Zagreb, but we are talking about the intentities of Zagreb or Varazdin, or Split, Rijeka, Osijek or some other theatres. So, in fact, intentants are giving a personal stamp to politics, to the theatre policy of the house. What may not yet end up in agreement is Article 27, so with this kind of artistic freedom, because if the founders determine some general frameworks mainly financial and humane for four years, then I am afraid of the ladies and gentlemen that we will not experience any re-shaping or thus call it the rise of the value of the Croatian theatre and theatre as a whole. If we determine in advance that those who establish and determine the frameworks and that they actually set the rules of the game then I can tell you in advance that these maneuvering spaces of the game are very tight. Therefore, it may be necessary to consider further when we are already going to the law that the liberal said, and which does not go too far, that at that crucial moment, so when someone comes to the competition and you predetermined him to think about perhaps at least a lexical or even more legitimate provision, which would, however, allow the director/indent who is here to have some kind of enthusiasm that he can do something in a theater, that is not immediately constrained by the frameworks that are imposed on him in advance. We also feel that there is no excessive reason for the applicant to become director of the theatre council to submit reports three months. We think it's a short period of time. After all, you know that theater time is a social time, so it's not a physical time, sometimes the season and the schedule of some activities in the season don't quite fit in some sort of physical time or maybe a calendar year, like the administration of the city, state or any other which is the founder of the theatre so it seems like a three-monthly submission of the report isn't necessary. Well, I'm glad to see that this is where the theatre council is set up. I'm glad because even in my first reading, I said that the City of Varazdin, which is the founder of the theatre, and that is the only founder of the theatre, I would say fortunately on one side. On the other hand, unfortunately, because then from the county we have too little resources. For example, in Osijek, the county is half the founder, and then half the funding. Unfortunately, although it is the only theatre in northern Croatia, we are almost exclusively financing, and I would like to say so as soon as it comes to the categorization of the theatre. The Ministry of Culture, you know, I think the national theatre is what plays the plays of national importance. It's the only provision of the national theatre. We can declare the theater national. What is it worth to us if it will not play plays that will exceed any narrow city, either province, or county, any regional frameworks that will not be seen by the citizens of Croatia, which may not contribute to the overall theatre and cultural history of Croatia. They are just small theatres, I want to say not only in Croatia but in the world often, mainly in smaller environments, in environments that are not metropolistic characters. Well, I'd say here's an example from my town. They were the bearers of some national consciousness, national poetry but not only national poetry but also multiculturalism in one area. Thus, in advance, to say that such theatres are not national I think it is not good and then, of course, what is the worst thing to do is to take back the differences and the different, different criteria when it comes to funding. I'll tell you that out of the total budget, for example, the Varazdin Theatre which I would now not be too patriotic but is certainly one of the best Croatian theatres in these 15 years, at least according to the number of prizes won, let's say from the total budget 85% is financed by the City of Varazdin. The other 15%. That's what the state has been to about 200 grand a year. This is inadmissible, which shows that unfortunately, in a cultural sense, we are developing Croatia unbalanced regionally. And that's why I think we should consider retegorizing after all. So I'm glad the theatre council is because I say, regardless of the legal provisions, we already have such a theatre council in town for five years. So what it is doing here is exactly what is now proposed and, in some ways, we can also be an example of such a theatre council being able to monitor, that it can monitor the implementation of the programme and that practically such a theatre council can then be useful to the founder, but also to the theatre community itself. What exactly in some possible retegorization that I was talking about and about a different understanding of theatre is not only these 4 that have the status of national theatres but all the theatres in Croatia, and then we can expect private theatres, is then of course, and here are perhaps more theatre poetics. Maybe some aesthetic confrontation or aesthetic differences in approach and then, of course, the differences in cultural development and cultural needs of the population because ladies and gentlemen, we have to be aware that this is not how I already mentioned the law that is excessively norming. With no administration, we will not achieve the cultural needs of our citizens, our people. You know very well that one threshold has more theaters than the whole of Croatia together. You know very well that our theaters are underinvested. You also know as well as our citizens that in these 15 years you can count new theatres on the fingers of one hand. Not to say new theaters in terms of objects. Although the fact is, some houses, some buildings, beautiful buildings have been restored. Let them rebuild now. But we don't have any new theaters. We don't have any new theaters. The whole system is deeply underinvested. When you look at the cultural needs of our population, you will see that the Croats are among the European peoples who read very little. Only a few percent. That only a few percent of our citizens are going to the theater. That when we look at those who occasionally leave, we are also invisible somewhere at the bottom of the ladder. Therefore, without raising cultural needs, which is not possible to make such an understanding and categorization of the theatre, without raising interest in the theatre and in general for some cultural offer to the Republic of Croatia, I think that even though we all agreed to accept it, it will not contribute to some new, new value or to creating new values in culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67391	Thank you. Club IDS, respected representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67392	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Gentlemen of the Ministry, respected colleagues and colleagues. We need to be honest and say that this Final Bill on Theatre has improved compared to the first reading but that it can do even better. But let me refer to the main remarks that were in relation to the law. There were most speeches about the status of national theatres. That in the Republic of Croatia other than the Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb, which the status of the law has very detailedly taken care to regulate, the fact is that there are still three national theatres in Croatia, and here they have their status only on paper. Because of course I am a financial burden from wages to funds for programmes and maintenance carried by the owner of the national theatre, which is in the case of the National Theatre in Rijeka and Split, the towns of Rijeka and Split, and in the case of the Croatian National Theatre in Osijek, the city of Osijek and Osijek-Baranja County. We believe that national theatres, national theatres must be provided with uniform funding and of course funding from the state budget. Second, there were speeches on, as well as administrative councils that are now becoming theatre councils. Certainly the Institute of Administrative Councils in Theatres was not good because we know that they were introduced in '95. And already in '97. the remaining on the boards would certainly lead to a significant reduction in the role of individuals and business directors. The function of theatre councils, of course, is that they follow the programmes, and now they are, of course, advisory and have the right of course to understand the financial business and that is, in our opinion, quite fine, but it should be written more clearly in the law, because anyone who does what should not be afraid and give their business insight. As far as working relationships are concerned, we can say that the most important thing has changed the situation in relation to the first reading and for the better. We can say that a European model has been taken, because the European legal system and in practical application, actually working relations in theatres are regulated for a certain time or according to the duration of the role, or according to the duration of the theatre project or theatre season. There may still be dubiosis around the final and transitional provisions, i.e. by the degree of the law in force. All theatres in the period from January to June, so in the middle of the theatre season instead of theatre activities, will deal with compliance with the provisions of the law. According to European standards, a new indent is elected only one to two years before the current intensifier's term of office is terminated, for the very reason that the newly elected indent with his term of office is already under way with the elaborate structure of his entire term of office to which he has been elected. But to return only to this final bill. Article 2 I quote the final proposal of this Law on Theatre: “The theatre activity is of interest to the Republic of Croatia and is carried out as a public service. ” And therefore this Law on Theatres is not only cultural but also political importance for the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia itself publicly promoted regionalism in the spirit of European laws and the public opposed every kind of centralism. And that this government's regionalism is the last hole in the play is seen from many laws and so on. Although all taxpayers in the Republic of Croatia pay taxes, they pay taxes that finance culture, and that, after a certain time, some places where money comes from are ignored. Because in the budget of the Republic of Croatia, according to the terms of the Ministry of Culture, 35 million kuna for theatre and musical stage activity, without knowing what criteria and criteria the money will be given for theatres. I think this is the way centralised will be conducted in culture as well. The IDS Club will therefore give an amendment to Article 53, which speaks of the Croatian National Theatre in Split, the National Theatre “Ivan of the noble Zajca” in Rijeka and the Croatian National Theatre in Osijek being financed by 60% of the founders, 20% of the County and 20% of the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Croatia. The mutual rights and obligations of the founders will be regulated by a special contract. Only when funding would be in such a transparent and legally regulated way could it be said that decentralisation is at work and that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia are equal. Perhaps another fact that speaks against decentralisation and that we still live in a non-democratic country, and the fact is that in the explanation of the proposals and opinions that are given in the first reading, the proponent did not accept them, and that the first reading said that it was unacceptable and undemocratic that the Government appoints and resolves the intensities without any explanation, so the public cannot find out about the reasons. It could not be accepted under the Law on Theatres, it cannot edit or influence the way the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopts acts on appointment and resolution. I would have to look back at the government's work then if it were non-transparent, not public, not democratic, and that in such a way it could be said that in countries with dictatorship, it could be discussed in such a way. I must tell you that, recently, national theatres from the European Union were present in Rijeka, so we have been informed of how their national theatres are financed. I will give you examples of Austria and very close Slovenia. The example of Austria, which finances all its national theatres with 31m euros from the state budget, even though we know that Austria is rich, but it is a small country. The example of Slovenia might be closer to us as a model. Let us remind that Slovenia had only two national theatres during Yugoslavia, and now they have 4 and they all finance them from the state budget. I suggest we look up to our neighbours, because that's how small countries through culture preserve their national identity. The IDS Club also supports Mr Furi Radin's amendment to the cultural autonomy of Italian drama within the “Ivan of the Noble Rabbit” theatre in Rijeka. And finally, we at the IDS Club will really believe in the true decentralisation of this government only when and within the culture, it decides to participate in the financing of national theatres, even if only with 10% of the funding. And because of all these other positive things that have changed in this final legislative proposal, we will not object to the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67393	Thank you very much. We're going to an individual debate. And before that is the correction of the incorrect allegations of the respected representative of Jagoda Maja Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67394	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, in a number of incorrect ones, and I'd say insulting claims and exposés, I'd fix only one. She said in one place, somewhere in the middle of the exhibition comparing the Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb with other national theatres that she has been funding herself for years, etc. etc. However, I would ask here if she even knows what national theatres are national for? According to the programmes and exactly the programmes of the national significance of the Government, i.e. the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Croatia has been funding for many years in all other national theatres except the Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb whose owner it is. This is not the place to discuss which theatres have national programs, which they do not have. But the fact is that it is the government's duty, or the Ministry of Culture, to encourage exactly national programmes. If some theatres feel they should not have them, then it is their turn to find other sources of funding. As for the normability, it is logical that the Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb is funded by the city and state simply because they are owners. Do you agree from other backgrounds that have national theaters to move those theaters into someone else's property? Obviously not. But if you don't, then let the county and the cities get rid of the bag a little bit more than they do today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67395	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67396	Dear Mr. President, my colleague hurt Article 209 because she did not correct any incorrect allegations, but only debated it and it was in the form of a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67397	And the esteemed representative Velimir Plesa, the correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67398	Thank you very much. Well, here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to correct two allegations just made by Mrs. Dorothy. She said we live in a non-democratic state, which is absolutely incorrect. And secondly, when she said that this government does not rule transparently but that dictatorship is at work, it is also incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67399	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. She's gone. He's losing his word on this wheel. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67400	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At first, I commend the ministry, the minister and his associates for the effort they have made between the two readings of this legislative proposal. As unacceptable as the first reading was, this final bill that comes into the bench is completely acceptable. Texts are importantly fixed. All comments raised in the debate on behalf of the clubs are respected, individually. And the important shortcomings of the bill have been removed. But now that good text is trying to spoil it with the amendment of the Committee on Culture. With or without the tipfeller, read one or the other that amendment is not good and Assistant Secretary of State I urge you to refuse that amendment. Here's the argument. If we allow intensities and directors to act artisticly outside the house, then we introduce and legalize one of the practices we had in Croatia, and the law has changed among other things and that this practice would be corrected. 'Cause watch out, that's when we've got the trange france, I've got you. So if I'm the director and director, for example. Then I'm gonna call from you from another theater to the director at my house where I'm the principal, and you're gonna ask me to direct it in your house. So with my regular salary, I'll get a fee for that directorial work. It's the same with conducting, it's the same with acting, even though these phenomena are less. This means that a classic conflict of interest has been passed. Why is that, why am I talking about a conflict of interest? It is a real conflict between the public interest that the director who competed and who was elected runs the house and his private interest that, with the salary he has as a director, or indemnity, earns an additional fee. It's his private interest. And further develops his artistic career. It's a situation we can't legalize. The director, the theater's intensifier, has to run the theater. Everyone who knows something about the theater, and I can see that there are people like that in the ministry, and that's why they suggest such an expression in Article 30 knows that the theater is a living organism. There, the director must be there every day, but he must come twice a day, work all the time, and come before the show in the evening and control the performance. That's how the director in charge works. There's something going on in the theater every day, someone's late, someone doesn't come to the rehearsal, someone forgets to do something, the stageman drew something too expensive that you should refuse. You, if you want to work, you have to be there every day. If he contracts elsewhere, you know that a theater show would usually be spent 40 rehearsals. 40 rehearsals, that's a minimum month and a half of work. There are no directors who will agree to do performances under 40 rehearsals, and you have to guarantee that. When someone doesn't have a month and a half, how does that theater work? And in the end, why? Why would we let that happen? What reasons make us let them do this? Look, we now have to make a decision whether we're going to pass a law that pleases someone's friends to be directors at the same time and to direct and do fees elsewhere, or we're going to be guided by public interest. If we are to take public interest, the amendment must be rejected, there is no dilemma. And if we're going to please this person or that person, then we can do whatever we want. But then it would be good to write the name along with that amendment that he thinks it is. It's not a matter of preserving excellence. It has nothing to do with excellence. If he's great, he'll be directed, he'll be invited by all the theaters to come and direct. He doesn't need to be the director or the intensifier so he can direct. If someone is an excellent conductor, they will conduct at home and around the world. Everybody's gonna call him. He doesn't need to be either the principal or the indent. That's how they do great. And those who are not excellent, they put themselves in that excellence in a way that when they get a mandate for alignment then the bargaining begins, then suddenly they become great directors. Because they offer services and ask for favors. Look, you guys, it's not just in theaters that such an example of conflict of interest has been prevented. Tell me, isn't there any judges in Croatia, for example? What would be great politicians? I'm sure he does. And are they allowed to deal with politics? They can't. They have to decide whether to be judges or to deal with politics. Are there army officers in Croatia who would be excellent politicians? I'm sure he does. And can I be? I can't. They have to decide, either they'll be in active military service or they'll be involved in politics. So let these guys decide whether they're gonna be great musicians, I don't know the conductors, directors, actors, whatever you want, whether they're gonna be or they're gonna be directors, and I can't do both. First they don't have time for it, second they won't be doing the job well, it'll be at the expense of the theater they're running and third, they'll be brothers in conflict of interest, and that should be said openly. Therefore, I strongly advocate the solution offered by the ministry in the final draft of the law of Article 30, I strongly oppose that the amendment changes this solution because it is changing to the above. Look, for the work of art in the house, in your own house where directors... should be approved by the theatre council and for your own house. Because watch out if someone competes, the founder has laid down therefore basic guidelines, and that means that for the drama theatre he wrote more about drama, you can't now do puppet shows and children's performances and financial frameworks and now someone is competing and he can say in his competition, that I, my program is such that all the way to any play in that theater I will direct because I think I'm the best director, because there has never been in history, there will be no or there will be a better director than me. If the founder accepts it, then let him give him the principal's seat, he'll bear all the responsibility. If this guy doesn't put it in the contest, then he can direct it when the theatre council lets him do it and the theater council will tell him, yes, but you've already directed something last season, you can go on because it was great what you did, but he can tell him no, man, God, so it's yours, so what would you do now? Or a writer, so someone can come with a program to post all their own texts because he's a genius writer. He can if the founder accepts it, and if he doesn't accept it, then it must be approved by the theatre council of every text he has. Every single one of his lines. So, even when acting in your own house, what the board considers to be out there should be included, and the action outside should be completely banned. Two more remarks to which I have sent the amendment. This theatre council is now well... it's all right, but in the theatre council they can't be the founders. I can't. Because why? Well, the founder already has an instrumentation through the Office of Culture, but he can't be an official of the Office of Culture in the theatre council. That's not necessary. So that's where I gave you the amendment. And secondly, you haven't solved the issue of funding, or compensation to members of the theatre council. If so, upon the burden of the founders so that it would not be now upon the burden of the theater and tomorrow someone interpreted look at it in the law it was not solved. It's just, and I know it's all the same, it's all the same because the founder that the money for the full operation is, but where, you have those salaries, you know those expenses, and you have the software, so now that theater from the program funds doesn't decide. In addition, then the theatre determines how much that amount will be. The Founder sends them a majority, and let him determine the amount and pay it. One thing hasn't been solved. What about contracts that already exist, labor contracts? Watch out you have contracts indefinitely with artists who don't have 16 years of employment, do they continue to act according to their contracts or have to sign new ones according to this law. That should be settled, I didn't write you about the amendment, because I don't know what you wanted, but since you know what you wanted, I'm asking you to write the amendment, but to clarify it because it remains unclear. They won't know what to do with them. Since I don't have any more time, and I have any objections yet, but maybe in some replicas and corrections we'll touch that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67401	Thank you. We have a few replicas. Dear Representative Peter Selem.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67402	Mr. President, I fully understand the concern of fellow Stazic. Indeed, there have been few extreme situations in the past where individual directors of the theatre have left and left their homes for long periods. But I wouldn't agree with one thing, I wouldn't agree, precisely with the question of excellence. So I think this restriction is absolutely going to the center of excellence. Because the practice in the world, in all major world theatres, orchestras, musical and stage institutions, is that top leaders of these institutions can perform elsewhere. It is an absolute world trend and fellow Stazic if you need me to list you immediately 15 examples that you can check at any time. So it's a custom, a Jesus in the world that I don't think we can ignore either, because that would limit the handling of our ensembles, whether it's about indents, directors of drama, opera, or so on, to people of smaller ambitions, to people who have been satisfied to sit in one house for four years and have absolutely no need to check themselves out. For an artist, checking out is necessary. I'm against all abuses, and I'm completely in agreement with you. But outside checking is necessary. On the other hand, I also believe that for the Croatian theatre if, fortunately, a young Croatian conductor who is the director of the Split Opera, was honored to conduct in Salzburg, that this would be one big plus for the Croatian theatre and that we could all be proud that the director of the Split Opera or Zagreb, or that I am not speaking now, straight in Salzburg or another big world festival. So it's a matter of excellence. Third thing. I don't think we have to go pessimistically but optimisticly and have to believe in people. I'm not going to make anyone an ad, but I know the case recently, I told you fellow Stazic this in a private conversation, an intensifier who refused a very stunning Finnish offer with great money, with a very very effective effect on the public, because he could continue to do his job as an indent because he knew that for three months as long as it took, he would absolutely disabling normal intensive work. But if the director of the opera is invited to conduct in Salzburg, I repeat so figuratively, one concert, and that means 7 days of preparation maximum, for God's sakes why make it impossible for him to do so. So our amendment comes from a positive belief that our people who run the theaters are so conscious, and there's still control of the theatre council and the theatre council will say, sir, you can't, you went one time, we let you go, we won't let you go next time. And so I think that control is there and there are very good points and the conditions under which it is released. So the theatre council not only has to say you can go, but it has to specify exactly the condition and conditions under which it can go. Then I think that's where we seduced really one control that covers, and let's say, a negative part of a human being who might be prone to some business, arrangements that aren't completely ethical. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67403	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Representative Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67404	Dear colleague Selem, that's exactly why the laws are passed. You know, if all people were so honest that no one would commit a crime, then the Penal Code wouldn't be necessary. It wouldn't be necessary at all. Laws are also passed because of those who are thought to act dishonestly. Secondly, as a positive example, you state an intensifier who refused engagement. It's commendable, but that's all we're suggesting that the Ministry and myself be mutilated. His example, which you point out as positive to enter into the law and to force everyone else to behave as this man did in your example. Third, you say it's a world practice. We had this world practice in Croatia, and we know what it led us to. It led us to abuse of this practice. Fifthly, if one of our conductors is invited to conduct in Salzburg, it's certainly a great honor for him, for the country he represents. Is it necessary for him to be a principal or an intensifier somewhere? Well, the honor will be great... Easy, easy, let's not make a fuss. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] There's no need to yell. If they call him to conduct because he's a good conductor, then okay, but if they call him because he's the principal, and they expect him to invite one of them here too, so he can conduct it here so it'll be you, me to you, then that's not good. If he's a good conductor, they'll call him, don't worry, both in Salzburg and elsewhere. If he's an excellent conductor, nothing of his excellence will bother him that he's not the director anywhere. He won't mind, but the theater will be bothered and the opera house will be bothered that he's not where he'd have to be, where he earns and receives his basic salary. I'm sorry, that's taxpayer's salary. Well, they don't pay, they don't single out cultural contributions or pay taxes for him to make money elsewhere, but to get paid and work in his place of work. Therefore, all arguments are in favour of the solution offered by the ministry. All arguments.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67405	Thank you. We have a replica, Mrs. Jagoda Maja Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67406	Thank you very much. I must say, Mr. Stazic, my colleague, I'm going to train that you obviously don't know much about the theater. No drama, no music. You don't even know about laws that apply in the world, you don't know about practice, so I'm going to tell you something now, and I'm going to teach you. My colleague Selem said a lot of things that I wanted to say, and I'm going to back it up a little bit with examples. For example, Mr. Representative Ivo Josipovic, my dear colleague, musician, he is an excellent composer. Shouldn't he, by any chance, be an indent or director of the opera compose and even less perform his compositions somewhere outside the home theater? Today's drama director of the Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb is called Dragan Despot. He's the most award-winning artist in the past year with his "My deal with them" monodrama. Does this mean that he shouldn't be doing his one-hour monodrama for which he won the Nazor Award, the Marul Prize, I don't know what to do anywhere for the next four years because you think it would really bother him to sit down from morning till tomorrow and catch those who are late at the theater or don't know what? Well, listen, directors aren't cops, and theater law isn't the Penal Code that you'd like to turn it into. The theatre is not a prison, theater is a place of art, excellence. If such a law were valid at a time when we had two bars of Croatian actresses, one was called Lovro Matačić, another Dr Branko Gavela, they should absolutely not do anything or should not be directors in their institutions who have just received their image, their style, their visibility, their followers, etc., etc. Let's think about the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67407	Thank you very much. Answer Mr. Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67408	As far as I know about the theater, you won't be able to judge. Among other things, it was an estimate of the audience of my theatre texts. Second, as far as you know about the theater, what you just said about Dr. Brank Gavelli, you claim he was the director of the theater he founded. He was never the director of the theater. He was the home director of that theater. Home director, but you're talking about... So read your literature and you'll know. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Third, third, composing. You're saying that Ivo Josipovic is a composer and also a director so he can't get along. He works at home, brother, so he doesn't have to go anywhere else to compose. What does that have to do with anything? So who'd forbid someone to compose or write? It's about whether he'll be in his own home or not. Fourth, actor Despot. Well, his performance lasts an hour and a half. So who cares that he won't be here for an hour and a half to perform his show. Why do you cite absurd examples that prove absolutely nothing and cite them because you have no good examples? Because with smart examples, you can't prove that absurd thesis that someone should get paid because they're not in their workplace, but earns a fee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67409	Please. Dramatic situations can happen in the Parliament, and we can see that some have talent for it. Mr. Pero Kovacevic also has...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67410	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. So teaching on Ivo Josipovic, composer and director. In my opinion, in that case, he would be in conflict of interest. If he's the director of a theater that's not his and he's trying to do his own work here. It would be a conflict of interest and there's a fellow Stazic right. So a bad example has been taken. But about this analysis of fellow Stazic I agree with part of it, but I disagree when you put the comparison, it tells you as an active military person and politics. Because you're saying, they have to decide if they're going to deal, they want to be an active military person, or they're going to be involved in politics. There is also a constitutional problem because active military personnel are banned from running. They can't get into a legal situation to decide. It would be a situation like before in electoral legislation if he were, running and if elected, then deciding whether or not he would be an active military person or would be involved in politics. That's the question, so in that part, I think it's a bad example because they're military personnel unlike others, they're not allowed to do that. As long as the president of the state can run for mayor and then after that if elected, then he decides whether he will be the president of the state or mayor. Those are the solutions we had last week and the legal solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67411	Mr. Stazic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67412	Comrade Kovacevic, I don't know if you listened to what I was saying? You are talking about Josipovic because he was in conflict of interest in this hypothetical situation if he were to perform his work, his composition in a theatre where he would also be the director. Well, that's not at all what we're talking about here, at all, why shouldn't we? That's why nobody absolutely complains about a potential conflict of interest especially if it's approved by the founder, and he owns the theater and wants just the kind of director, he wants exactly the kind of man who makes up that kind of music. It's another thing. This issue of officers and belief in politics is not at all unresolved, it is fully resolved by both the Constitution and all the laws, and for those officers who did not know how to interpret it, this has helped the President of the Republic to understand what it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67413	Thank you very much. Let's move on. It is Mr. Representative Ivo Josipovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67414	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I do not intend to sing any song here on the topic of theatre, he did it by master Papandopool with a brilliant opera "Fire in Opera" where he partly mocked some of the phenomena that we want to resolve with new legislation. I agree with those who say that this version of the law is significantly better than it was before. That's true, and I think that ministry did a good job, and when I say that the law won't hurt, don't take it as irony, I really mean it as a characterization of a law that respects the fact that some things simply don't get prescribed. The law is not an all-powerful instrument and I always point out that for some time we are what is said to be a normative optimist. There is no law to prevent an unconscious intensifier from misusing his function as there is no law to prevent anyone, if you will, a composer at the head office to just perform his music or to prevent an actor from acting in every play in the theatre where he is director of drama. Therefore, when we prescribe a variety of measures, we must always be aware of the limitations that the law has, the law is not an all-powerful instrument, and much depends on those who directly manage theatre and culture as a whole through the ministry, so if you want to do so through the national parliament. Now, looking at this last version of the law that I'm saying here, she's really accepted many of the comments from the debate. I'd say I have some other dilemmas I'd still like to take into account this restriction on perhaps legal-technical proposals to correct the text of the law. In my view, perhaps the only still unclearly large question that you have left in some way with general acts, or statutes, or as theatres have already been written, the relationship between the intensifier and the business director. In my view, however, respecting both tradition and ultimately the function of the indent must be clear who is in charge. For me, the intensifier is undoubtedly the chief and I, in that sense, have submitted one amendment to Article 22 to add a sentence to clarify that the business director for his work corresponds to the applicant. Namely, this would result in you having in paragraph 2 of your sentence that the applicant is responsible for the legality of the work, and on the other hand in paragraph 3 you have an assistant applicant who organizes and conducts business, and business is where illegalities do not occur, illegalities do not occur in art work. Therefore, the applicant who corresponds to the whole at the end and before the law and before the founders must be clearly the first and the top of the pyramid, regardless of the direct business and direct business being placed in the jurisdiction of the business director. Furthermore, my proposals go in the sense of eradicating Article 18(2). It's about limiting the responsibilities of the founder, I think it's a provision like this, maybe I get it wrong, but as it says, it seems to me that it is contrary to the Law on institutions that prescribes the solidarity of founders for institutions, and I don't think any contract could limit that responsibility of the founder. Furthermore, I don't think that the regulation of private theatres made it possible to say quite so that when the theatre was founded as private that those solutions concerning all theatres would be automatically applied, that means for those who are public. I think there are some constitutional-legal constraints in what and how the legislator can intervene in something that is a private initiative, so I suggest that instead of the provisions of this Law in Article 37 of the Law on Institutions. There is already enough guarantee that private theatres, i.e. private institutions, have certain social control. As far as this possibility of the involvement of outside artists is concerned, I think in principle about the idea it is necessary because it cannot be theater, nor should it have all the employees, but I think you may have unnecessarily restricted the types of contract, the Copyright Act prescribes four types of contracts, you mentioned only one, I think that this may be a loss, so I suggest, and I have made an amendment to Article 51(2) to include all the contracts that the Copyright Act provides in some way. And in the end, I gave an amendment relating to transitional and final provisions, which is what my colleague Kovacevic saw, so here I intervened, it's simply a nomotechnical intervention that I suggest you accept. In the end, I think that the law again as an instrument that is not almighty will not solve the fundamental problem that our artistic and theatre activity has, and that is the difference between the entrenched position of employees, workers in the working relationship that we normally have in the regular regime and what we modify in view of the specificity of artistic activity. On the one hand, artists are in a position to maybe earn some bigger money than ordinary citizens can, but they are paying with a wave one increased personal uncertainty about work and employment, and that is obviously one tax that artists who are with you and contacted how much I hear they are willing to pay. But what is the problem and is not solved again by law is the proportionality of market opportunities and the one supported by the ministry and the other public sector and the private sector, because unfortunately in culture we have very little private sponsorship, investments unlike some other countries to meet the needs of any general public, whether the art sector, the art system. We obviously have so many and small and medium theaters and small, larger, medium-sized ensembles today, which can be very difficult to finance and shut down from those assets that society has objectively. Therefore, what seems to me to be something that will help solve those things that are trying to solve but will not be dealt with by law is a certain selectivity and focus on excellence, quality and I am sure those who are not in the front lines that I cannot expect their place on the culture market. We are entering the European Union, and there will become even bigger and stronger competition, and even stronger, and I think that only a thought-out policy that will promote what we have best. We have really successful people in culture, can make Croatian culture equal in this battle that will open the moment Croatia enters the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67415	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Miroslav Korenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67416	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister! Well, I agree with all those who have said that this proposal means a significant step towards first reading in the second reading. However, regardless of which few I would open the topic and I will try to get answers. Here, on the third day we discuss in this High House and we come back to it, I'm going to talk about public theatres that need local or regional self-government to finance. And one part of the course of national theatres because the fact is that I would also ask an open question about what national theatres in Osijek, Rijeka or Split are about if the Ministry of Culture directly or in this way does not directly co-finance one part of... If we have a national theatre as a central HNK in Zagreb, there is no reason why the other national theatres are not being helped more significantly financially. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If bigger ones need and we also know that they must also have a national identity through their programmes, performances and everything else, it is absolutely certain that they deserve some of the financial cake, not only through the projects, but also for the fixed cold drive. We know in what conditions local and regional self-government operates today, given that both Osijek and the county and the city have ownership rights and also finance both the programme and the cold drive. The question arises as to how this level will mean for national and especially public theatres local and regional self-government will finance all of this, because here on the third day we are discussing laws where everything goes in one piece towards local self-government and in no way have we heard how much additional funds will be allocated to local and regional self-government. It turns out that those who are in Zagreb, yet with their capital, here is the largest budget of one city, here are the strongest financial institutions, here is power, here are the largest sponsors. How will theatres in other environments be financed? We know it's all about money, and it's exactly the bill's proposal to improve the fluctuation of theatre staff and everything else. I suppose if it were to go with one part of co-financing, it might also affect the programmes. Here, I will give an example that at the same time in two national theatres in Croatia we do not have two equal plays. That's what happened this year, Mozart's year, which doesn't mean in the artistic sense that it's not good. However, for a country of 4.5 million people with such economic opportunities, it may simply not be the most appropriate moment right now. The second thing is that, by joining the European Union, we must also preserve the national identity of our theatres, the predecessors have already spoken of it. It seems to me this way and with a law like this, that it still goes into centralization and metropolision of culture. Let's talk a little bit about public theatres that seem to me to be from Varazdin, Virovitica, Dubrovnik, so I don't get them all together now. The fact is that these theatres will be well dependent on local powers whether they or not can finance public needs in culture and how. Because it certainly does not matter, and I commend what is happening in the city of Zagreb that finally the cultural workers were in the theatres, the museums came about to have the same basics for their salaries, and this here is a little talked about with the administration of these cities, or with local administrations. We now have situations in some cities that simply the differences in these salaries are enormous. And I am now asking a question and I welcome the possibility that young artists will leave town, from theater to theater, but I am asking a purely social question. An actor at the start of a career who gets eventually some kind of engagement year, two or four in a way that will solve some of his existential issues. That's what I set up in my first reading of this law. It turns out that artists in some way are citizens of the second order in this society. The one who has a contract for a certain time is the question of whether he can get a loan to buy an apartment, everything else, and it seems to me that the local environments don't take account of it enough or not. So here's the support of law-making, yes, but it seems to me that we should give answers to some of these questions. In doing so, one thing that the unions fought for and fought for by passing this law is realistically possible that we will also have extra staff in theatres, not only actors, but we will have extra technical and other staff. It is clear to me that the answer can be that it will be dealt with by collective agreements, but how do I think that something more should be said about it, and by this law which seems to me to be omitted at this time? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67417	Thank you very much. Replica Mr. Representative Marko Turic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67418	Dear Mr. Vice President! When we started this morning with this topic then you could get an apparent impression that somewhere our culture or subject we talked about was somewhere... in the crisis, however it does not stand. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm going to say something here that makes you agree on these today perhaps given some such aspirations under this new law. I'll say, I'll mention here, and it's an opportunity, and it's my duty, and I want it, about a event where renowned artists, Croatian theatres, the most popular actors, musicians, and it's a well-known theatre of actors' meetings in Zagvozd. He gives it to me for the right audience when, with his popularity of newspaper criticism, it gives all of it the highest marks of it all. I am also pleased that this Law will in no way be restrictive for this phenomenon, which is now a tradition. It was mentioned here by the predecessors that local administration and self-government must also finance and give. I think this is an example of where it is, in fact, for the Biokovo village if it is on the map of cultural Croatia already now and with it that gives very much and is sacrificed without any material means. As mentioned here in the law that these are the owners who finance, they must exclusively be owners. It doesn't occur to me that someone would have something to share with, yes, but I want to say something else. The fate of such appearances of theatre so these theatre groups held in July and August depend on An individual. [[- Intruder: Finish!]] Just one sentence. An individual. There's a gentleman around here who's doing it. Here's my call at the end. Since these two months are coming I invite everyone down to come to such a cultural event. And even those who go to the Dubrovnik Summer Games. I mean, I'm talking from an example, they're stuck on multiple shows in Zagvozd. Thank you very much. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67419	... Here you go. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67420	Dear colleague, there seems to be no conflict between what I was saying and what you were talking about. I was talking about the possibility and my deep belief that this law also leads to the metropolis of culture. The fact is, and we can't avoid local self-government having so many problems, we've imposed so much on the adoption of certain legal solutions of financial obligations that often culture goes into a second or third plan. You said yourself that culture depends on individuals. I was talking about public theatres that exist outside of Zagreb. It's not national and it's hard to finance... The festivals are welcome. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But culture needs to be consumed at least I'm assuming, which is why I stand for it all year round. This is what happens in slow motion and thank all those who lead to it. But we need to institutionalize something. Give us the opportunity to make the wide circles of our citizens the consummations of culture. If it depends on some local powermaker whether something will be held or not, the fact is that it is. If the wages of cultural workers depend on the case to the occasion, it's something else entirely. I specifically pointed out the example of the city of Zagreb where the basics for the salaries of cultural workers and the city administration were almost evened out. Unfortunately, in other areas, that's not the case. And as long as this is the case for culture, it won't be too good a time for cultural workers, despite the enthusiasm of cultural workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67421	Thank you very much. It is Mrs. Jelena Pavicic-Vukicevic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67422	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. I believe that in some way we have come to an end to the debate on this final proposal of the Law on Theatre. And I will indeed join in a few very short lines to the debate itself. First of all, I would like to ask you ministers and your associates to submit an amendment to Article 10 and Article 38(2) in the areas where the competent offices for performing cultural affairs are concerned until the adoption of this final proposal. For a year now, the city of Zagreb has no city office for culture, so I propose that the amendment of the Government fix it and also introduce a much more appropriate term, so the City Office is responsible for performing cultural affairs because this formulation does not correspond to the current structure of the city administration in the city of Zagreb. I would also like to look back even though I read the material in detail and saw the answer to the first reading. As regards incentives for funding programmes and other sources, and not only from public budgets, it is clear that programmes can be financed through different foundations, sponsorships, gifts and the like. But the fact is that the Ministry of Culture still has to make one incentive towards the Ministry of Finance and the Government so that it doesn't remain an empty letter on paper and that we all really try to come up with a quality incentive system together, such as a certain tax relief for potential donors regardless of whether it's private or legal persons. I see that in today's debate, a lot of controversy has sparked this article 25th and isolating in its position of the Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb. So the applicant is appointed to the joint proposal of the Minister of Resor and Mayor of the City of Zagreb. I think it is again completely unwarranted in the focus and also in the topic of some animosities of other parts of Croatia towards the City of Zagreb. That's what we're putting on there. I think, in fact, completely unwarranted. This is really what Mr Vujic was saying, I don't think he's going to win or lose the quality of HNK's work in Zagreb, no matter how much he chooses. And I believe that there is always some common language that can be achieved around appointments but unfortunately also in this law, and in this law the rest of Croatia somehow looks at Zagreb differently, simply thinking that there is always a distinct possibility of being in something more favourable than in this particular case Croatian National Theatres in other cities. As far as the appointment of the director is concerned, in a way that the proposal is formed on the theatre council and that it is confirmed by the representative body of the founders, I think it is a good solution because the fact that a number of other institutions know such a solution and I think that so far has proved to be fully justified, justified. As for the inclusion of a new form, the forms of the cultural council I think that these functions are quite clear but perhaps you should also consider that the statutes that the theatre council or theatre itself brings should nevertheless go to the consent of the founders. There are different formulas there, but I think this way of making the statutes a previous positive opinion of the founder or representative body of the founders I think is good and justifiable. And finally, I would also like to join this part of the debate on the contract on the work of theatre artists compared to other theatre workers. Therefore, while theatre workers are subject to the Labour Act as regards their employment, theatre artists are indeed in a different position that we could characterize by the term of job security, but unfortunately, this job security does not guarantee even one particular professional freedom, including flexibility. It is, of course, this part of those who really participate in the performances themselves, that is, the implementation of the programmes themselves. So, unfortunately, there is no way to engage an actor, singer, dancer, and so on for just one single performance unless, of course, we consider it to be the exclusive right of independent artists. So this law makes the difference between an independent artist and a theatre artist who is employed in a particular theatre and remains there for 4 to 16 years under the Act Treaty, that is, after 16 years of employment indefinitely. So, it's definitely one social dimension of the law, but I think as far as the very flexibility of the workforce within the theater is concerned, maybe it's not the happiest solution because I say it makes a big difference with independent artists who can really choose at any time when and where they will work, when and where they will perform. And on the other hand, we are also witnessing today that those who are employed in the theatre very often avoid obligations to their theater and deal with some we can also call them market activities and publicly say that they actually don't have time for engagement in their own house. Thank you very much, and here's only if you can, with the amendment of the Government, then fix these two articles of the law, Articles 10 and 38. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67423	Thank you. Ms. Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67424	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it seems like this debate is about me saying happy endings and everyone is going to support this law. Because in the first reading of the Law on Theatres, it caused great debates and public interest, not only theatre artists, experts, media, but also the general public, so let's remember that this law was the goal of the debate even in the main news on state television and in two shows on state television, not to repeat how much the number of newspaper articles was dedicated to this law. After the debate was held in the first reading, the promoter adopted the largest part of the remarks, which also pointed out in the home board on education, science and culture, most of those who participated in the making of the proposal, and these are not only experts in the ministry, very commendable artists themselves, trade unions, and the general public. The biggest remarks in the first reading were the editing of the theatre control and management system, i.e. the problem of the indent who is the key person in the theatre, and the assistant assistant business director runs the business and organizes the theatre. With this proposal, I think it is well pointed out that the separate jobs, that the applicant has won the first place he deserves and that each of these persons is responsible for what she is in charge of. The final draft of the law also included a proposal in Article 5 to carry out theatre activities, which is particularly important. It has already been said today in smaller areas where these theaters are the bearers of the organization of theatre life and it is good to stay for now. Although there were a lot of objections to the introduction of a governing council which was replaced in the final proposal by a theatre council, I think it is good that this institute was introduced into theatres because they were the only institutions in cultures that had no such form of supervision and governance, and why a museum, archive or any other kind of institution in culture could have had an administrative council, and there was not one such body here. And in the first debate, unfortunately, I have to remember the least we were dealing with is the question of the status of theatre artists, and this law has just improved their position. I support the proposal of the Education Committee because I also took part in the debate on this committee to amend Article 30 in order to enable indents, artistic leaders, directors of public theatres and assistants, to enable their artistic work at the time of their function, which would also mean continuity in their artistic creation. I don't think it should be forbidden for these people to move on, because most often from what we have now are those who are the best and their excellence might be for those four years their mandate or how long their mandate has been kind of neglected. I think we should support that. I also advocate the full protection of theatre artists, by changing that Article 43 which in the proposed law meant that after 16 years of work, an artist could be offered a contract of work indefinitely as well as those who make up collective art bodies in one theatre, choir, ballet, orchestra. However, I agree with the position of the parent board that this should be separated, so that artists, when they were in the most vital age of their activities, were in some way protected and I agree with this proposal that, according to the model of obtaining the right to retire, they would separate the area of action of ballets and dances and other artistic staff in the theatre. So, although there have been different discussions, even fears that the powers of some of the leaders, the intensities will be reduced, that he will not be a key person. It was here and thinking that he shouldn't be working on it. There have also been different reflections regarding the protection of theatre artists. After the introduction of these changes, I hope that this law, thanks to the real understanding of the Ministry of Culture, will satisfy the greatest number of artists, but I think it is also the purpose of passing this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67425	Thank you very much. It's Mrs. Maria Byte's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67426	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with his associates, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The purpose of the final proposal of the Law on Theatres is to establish a legislative, regulatory form which should facilitate the performance of theatre activities, the establishment of theatres and theatre groups, which we have in Articles 6 to 11, the financing of Articles 12, 13 and 14, documentation, organisation, management of theatres, obligations and rights of intensities, business director and director in Articles 22 to 30, the Theatre Council from 31 to 33, supervision of the legality of work and financial operations, the issue of theatre artists and workers, as well as all relevant issues of interest for theatre activity. From the first to the second reading of the bill, the proposer has observed the maximum number of objections. Therefore, the final bill offers good solutions, both for public theatres and for private theatres and theatre families. The activity of the theatre is of interest to the Republic of Croatia, and the legislative tradition in this activity lasts 135 years. Let us remember that the first Theatre Law was passed in 1861, and in the independent Republic of Croatia one of the first laws in the activities of culture was still at war in 1991. The theater law. Which speaks enough about the general interest and commitment to theatre activity in the Croatian state. The intention of the law is to establish a system that will enable the theatre to carry out its activities uninterrupted, freedom of art creation, as well as respect for the fundamental European standards. With the establishment of theatres and theatre groups as public institutions, theatres are more important for smaller environments, i.e. those who pursue the interest of founders in achieving public needs both at the level of the Republic of Croatia and in small areas, so that their programmes, drama and music-spheres can be performed throughout Croatia, covering the established interest and the demonstrated and through cultural councils of cities. I also support the possibility of actors, singers and artistic ensembles being more mobile because of the needs of small city theatres. The proposal for a law on resources for the operation of theatres makes it more clear and is provided by owners and founders in accordance with established public needs in culture, and programme guidelines to be established by the founder of theatres in accordance with cultural needs and financial opportunities. The programs in culture cost money, and we are aware that they must meet different criteria. The theater exists for the audience and through the program. The program must have artistic standards, even above time and offer more than standard audiences. But on the other hand, he must respond to the audience's demands and be with her in agreement. Intent, business director and director are key persons responsible for the legality of work, programme, organisation and implementation of the programme. In line with the tradition of Croatian theatre, the key person in the national theatre is the intent. The individuality that carries the theatre by which we remember it, which must have the freedom to create, which manages the work of the national theatre and national theatre groups represent the theatre and organises the art program. The business director is an assistant to the intelligence officer who runs and organizes the business that I consider a good solution. The good solution is that the term of office is also for 4 years so that the mandate of the assistant responsible for the term of office and its resolution is resolved by his team. I also welcome the solution to the theatre council. The theatre council has three, five or seven members. It is composed of representatives of founders and theatre artists, and is clearly prescribed jobs and tasks. It is a good solution, both intensities and business directors, i.e. directors must submit a report to the theatre council on the implementation of programme and financial operations in order not to result in a loss or failure to fulfil the programme without anyone being responsible. Our 4 national theatres, Zagreb, Osijek, Rijeka and Split each year invest about 200 million kuna. In Croatia, the national theatre has a long tradition, and the reasons for the foundation still in the 19th century have maintained the same importance and clarity to date. The care of the national repertoire, its world repertoire of classics and the care of a permanent ensemble. The National Theatre must not become an estranged theatre and, among other things, the role of the theatre council is irreplaceable. It should help the indent and business director, and the link between theatres and those who are, provide funds for their work. I think it's settled in the bill of law. I will support the final proposal of the Law on Theatres in addition to the amendments of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, and of the Croatian Democratic Community club, because they provide more acceptable solutions for theatre activities that allow greater mobility of theatre artists related to labour and legal status, and ensure the right to work on indefinite times for theatre artists who worked in the theatre for a number of years, from 16 to 20, in which Mrs Jagoda Martincevic spoke on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club. And I think it will improve and secure their position. I believe that there is a good Law on Theatres that will enable successful work at the theatre at a normative level and encourage new values in culture in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67427	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67428	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will only talk about one narrow segment of this bill proposal and the one concerning Article 20 in the last paragraph, that is, the part that determines, which better mentions Italian drama, or theatre group, theatre group. Will you please stop Mr. Letty so I can concentrate. Thank you very much. Please. Yeah, that's better. It means only one narrow segment of one relating to Italian drama. In Article 20, where national theatres are mentioned, Italian drama is also mentioned, but only in the next context. In the composition of the Croatian National Theatre Ivana the noble Zajca Rijeka, the Italian drama works. The activities of the Italian drama are closer to the Statute of the Croatian National Theatre of the noble Zajc, Rijeka. You see, this is not enough, we have had certain contacts with the ministry and with Mr. Sixan who was then an indent of this theatre and who well knows this topic and our proposal was to determine this law to determine the closer cultural autonomy of this Italian drama in the spirit of constitutional law that speaks precisely about cultural autonomy. Why is that? Because it is both repertoire and resources and the full work of Italian drama is determined in fact on the basis of what it thinks and what it considers to be on the one hand, but we believe that Italian drama should generally have as all other forms of action of national minorities that should have a certain form of cultural autonomy. To be clear, in real work, it is very important to reflect the opinion of the director of Italian drama and, in fact, with various fluctuations, it has always been so. But we cannot allow this to be defined exclusively and only by the Statute of the Croatian National Theatre Ivan Zajc, or we must determine that this statute must also be dealt with on the basis of certain principles and certain values, in this case that it must be treated in the light of the autonomy of this theatre. Don't think it's something inconclusive. This theater is an Italian drama, I'm sorry to call it theater, but we call it internally, so the Italian drama is 60 years old, it was founded in 1946, and it's actually organized over 300 programs so far. It is if we want one comparison, it is the oldest to say, the form of a stable, continuous theatre within Italian culture, because it is generally not only in Croatia but Picolo Teatro, for example. from Milan, the oldest in Italy, has a year less than Italian drama. So she has the right not only to be under the statutes but under the law to be sanctioned by his, her autonomy. So I proposed an amendment that reads: Article 20(2) behind the words: "The Croatian National Theatre of Ivan the noble Zajca" puts a comma and the following words are added: "It means that it will be arranged in the statute, but with the words "in accordance with the provisions of the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities in the cultural autonomy of national minorities". And I'm asking you not to, that's understood. Because if that were understood then in many others, many laws would not be applied to other laws precisely because it is not understood because in certain periods of the history of Italian drama it was strong and visible that its autonomy does not mean, in some cases more, in some smaller, but there are periods where any action of Italian drama can indeed be determined directly from the intent Ivan Zajc. Because as it stands, there's no guarantee of autonomy. Since it's cultural autonomy, I like to say autonomy and let it not get me wrong, and if I'm misunderstood, it doesn't matter either. I also love regional autonomy, I love political autonomy, but in this case it's just cultural autonomy, and it's certainly one of the values of the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities. I therefore ask Minister Biskupić to respect this observation and in any case not to consider it excessive because it is very important because it is also a state, and not only the statutes of certain organisations and states as such and the government must guarantee the cultural autonomy of the associated forms of national minorities, in this case Italian drama. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67429	Thank you. There's a replica, Mr. Agent Walter Poirot.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67430	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I think that what the esteemed representative Radin said, exactly what should have been said and what should have been added here, because the cultural autonomy of national minorities, in this case the Italian national minority is very important in this part of the John of the noble Zajca theatre in Rijeka, and I believe that also in the Government, the honourable Mr. Biskupić will accept such a proposal that surely goes with the legal and existing constitutional, i.e. the existing Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities. I would also support this proposal along with Mr. Radin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67431	Thank you very much. Finally on behalf of the HDZ club, Jagoda representative Maja Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67432	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Quite briefly, because I think we've said a lot. I am very pleased that this topic has been so attractive and interesting to many colleagues, because the themes from culture are not so common, and this one here in two readings has upset our ranks, I would almost say beyond expectations is so much more significant. There's only one principle I'd like to draw from all of our discussions, no matter how different and distasteful. I think that somehow we all agreed together that the principle of this law is specific because it speaks of artists, that it must be the principle of excellence. And if we agree on that, then I would only answer one of the many questions that someone has asked why, if someone is already an excellent, brilliant, world director or conductor, would want to be the director of one of our theatres, while still working in the profession. Well, my lords, simply so as to make it your knowledge, your experience, that image, that reputation that at the altar of your own theater. It's logical, it's normal, it's everywhere in the world like that. We did not do this amendment to which we changed this article, so that our theater managers could act artistically, did nothing but wish for a better future of theatre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67433	Thank you very much. In conclusion, Mr. Culture Minister Bozo Biskupic will look back. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67434	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable MPs and the MPs. I thank all those who have debated the Law of Theatre today, all those who have supported it, but also those who have tabled amendments because it is visible, in this short time... We are here that in fact almost all amendments are invested in improving the text. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, for activity, we too will consider and I hope that most of these amendments will be accepted. A few words, there were a lot of words here, and I think there are some maybe ignorances enough when it comes to funding. First of all, this law defines it very clearly. Funding is the obligation of founders, and the Ministry of Culture is there to fulfil its obligations and it seeks them and wants to meet them so that they co-finance programmes as is said which are of national interest. Regardless of the status of the theatre was this 3 large theatres, I would just like to say that these 3 theatres that are not the founder of the state of Croatia receive also about an annual co-financing of cca somewhere between 3 and 4 million kunas, with Split still having the Split Summer, and it is another million kuna. But we also co-finance other theatres in Croatia as well as the theatre house if there is a program in Sibenik that has a great theatre but has no ensemble, then of course we try and help by actually targeting the theatre, and we even tried to offer help to establish professional theatre activities. So, since there is so much happiness in having such a beautiful building that we have been rebuilding for years, we have managed to restore that it also has a continuous theatre life in its city. So, and there was an objection here that there was no democracy at all, that there was no democracy, and the MP set an example if 10% at least funded, it would probably be democracy with those 10%. I don't know how much democracy is, and how much is not, but I'm telling you that our co-financing of these theaters is far greater than that 10%. So, I mean, it's a shame to limit the percentages that way if there were no democracy. I think that we are very transparent, very responsible, and you saw it between these two readings that we have very correctly accepted most of all of your observations that have been, which we have understood well-intentioned because they were aimed at improving the activity. Thus, equally to improve the life of actors, to improve theatre life and this Law goes towards improving the status, respecting the actor, respecting the audience, but of course the programme and maintaining the programme. There was also talk here in the cold drive. That cold drive, that term with the technique... He's still a socialist slave, and he assumed the theater door was closed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Ministry of Culture does not intend to finance closed-door theatres but rather thinks about funding programmes, but it is also an obligation of course then and local self-government. If he has a theater to fund him, of course, and not to let him barely survive so that such a theatre can't and can't compete with serious programmes at the ministry because he doesn't have the basic conditions. Therefore, and this is the obligation that is very much to be respected and then the founder, if it is local self-government. And just for a little while, since the question has been raised whether or not this law was necessary at all, I must tell you that when we accepted this very responsible work at the Ministry of Culture, we saw in fact that a number of round tables were delayed in the former term of the Minister of Culture, a number of debates by theatre artists who went towards the need to change the old theatre law. But it seems that at the time, there was no courage to open the question and discuss it. We've had this courage, you've got a new proposal ahead of you. I see that most of the time, there is one very positive discussion here, and I thank everyone together for that, and I think that you can be sure that by respecting this law, we will work on the common good in Croatia and especially on theatre activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67435	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We will now interrupt the session and continue at 3 p.m. with the Final Proposal for the Security and Intelligence System Act of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much and pleasantly. It's 1:00 P.M.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67436	Final proposal of the Law on Theatres. State Secretary Jadran Antolovic, you have a table with a review of the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67437	I do.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67438	An amendment from one of Zvonimir Mršić's representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67439	This amendment is not accepted by the Government. The proposed amendment would oblige the state budget to participate in the financing of Croatian National Theatres in Osijek, Split and Rijeka with 20% and we have found that the budget on average now covers a state budget of more than 50% of the programme funds, which would essentially be if we accepted the amendment more unfavourable for those three national theatres.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67440	There is no representative of Mršić. There's a vote to vote on. Please vote. The result? 12 for, 2 abstentions, 72 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. The second amendment of MP Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67441	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67442	It becomes an integral part of the law. The third also representing Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67443	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67444	It becomes an integral part of the law. Fourth representative of Fury Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67445	This amendment cannot be accepted because reference to the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, not only is it not necessary, but it is also not technically incorrect because each law must comply with the provisions of the Constitution and constitutional laws and be implemented in accordance with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67446	Representative Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67447	Thank you very much. I've already explained this amendment to the fact that there are a lot of laws that appeal to other laws. Here it is not intentional, but it is an indication that the autonomy of the Italian drama theatre within Ivan Zajc must be respected. So please vote on that amendment and I'm sorry you didn't accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67448	Please, let's get on with it. To vote on this amendment that the Government does not accept. The result? 11 for, 6 abstentions, 65 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Fifth amendment of MP Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67449	The government does not accept the proposed amendment, since the law found that the business director is an assistant to the intelligence in the national theatre, which makes it clear that he is responsible to the applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67450	Representative Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67451	The amendment went for clarification, but if the government thinks it's okay. I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67452	Amendment 5 is withdrawn. Amendment to the sixth Club of Representatives of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67453	Amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67454	It becomes an integral part of the law. The seventh Committee on Education, Science and Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67455	The government accepts the amendment, noting that the word "which" is entered as "which" given the grammatical correctness, tipfeler.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67456	Tipefeller. So, which one? Okay. In the second row below. It's an integral part of the law... Correction. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Eighth Club of Representatives of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67457	We cannot accept this amendment because we have also accepted the previous amendment of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67458	Okay. Consumed. The ninth amendment to the HSS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67459	This amendment cannot be accepted in view of the fact that theatre artists, not all theatre workers, should be represented in the Theatre Council, and in the opinion of the promoters, as well as confirmed by the parliamentary debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67460	The club of representatives of the HSS, the respected representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67461	Thank you very much. The intensity of this amendment was that in those environments where simply theatre artists do not have enough numbers or that there is not a single one that they can then, that some other theatre workers can be their own replacement. So if it happens in a middle like that, and it can happen in a small environment, but if you think you don't need it, I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67462	Amendment withdrawn on the ninth. The tenth representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67463	The government accepts this amendment, noting that in the first part of the amendment relating to Article 31(1), in the last words "or the City's Culture Office of the City of Zagreb" to replace "the city office responsible for culture". That would be true for all the cities and all the city offices.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67464	Representative Nenad Stazic. Accepted in this amended form, such an amendment. Representative Ivo Josipovic, Amendment 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67465	This amendment cannot be accepted because private theatres established as institutions are established under the Law on Institutions. Therefore, it is not necessary to refer to the Law on Institutions but in this case to the provisions of the precisely theatre law because the theatre established as a private institution should have a complete structure that corresponds to and manages in the field of theatre activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67466	He's a colleague of Josipovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67467	I think this unwarranted dodging of the autonomy of the private if they are founded by the theatre and imposed by some restrictions that the state rightly places on public theatres. So I'd like to ask you to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67468	Please vote on this amendment that it does not accept. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? 22 for, 2 abstentions, 63 against. The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment of the 12 HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67469	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67470	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 13th Representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67471	This amendment is not accepted by the Government. Namely, the Copyright and Related Rights Act provides for four types of contracts. One, as explained in the amendment, is stated. One of these is a publishing contract that does not appear at all in the theatre activity, and three types are actually mentioned the types of authorial, author's contract, so on the performance of the work, on the stage display of the work and on the creation of the work, and therefore we believe that the existing formulation actually covered all three types of the author's contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67472	Representative Ivo Josipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67473	The Treaty on the Functioning of the Copyright falls under related rights, not copyright, therefore it is not a copyright agreement, so I would ask that the vote be voted, because I think it is the wrong interpretation of the right.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67474	Please vote. The result? 22 for, 3 abstentions, 62 against. Amendment 14. IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67475	This amendment cannot be accepted by the Government. In fact, it is essentially very similar to the 1st amendment tabled on this Law and suggests that the Ministry of Culture finance the budget by 20%. I note again that the budgets have established that this would be more unfavourable for the three national theatres at which the amendment is proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67476	There's no one from the IDS rep club. Please vote. Please, let's get on with it. The result? 4 for, 5 abstentions and 72 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 15. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67477	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67478	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 16th Representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67479	Since we have respected the amendment of the Legislative Committee, and it is almost identical... I think so. [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67480	Representative Josipovic. Amendment withdrawn. Thank you very much. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Theatres. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 86 votes for, 5 abstentions, 6 against was passed the Law on Theatres in the text as proposed by the Government along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67483	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The morning section ended with a debate on theatres, and although I did not follow through on the debate on theatres, one of the MPs said there seems to be a consensus on the support and adoption of the law now. It would be nice if such an important law were passed by consensus, of course it always depends on the content of the law. So let me briefly say a few words about the content of the Final Proposal of the Security and Intelligence Act of the Republic of Croatia. Just one little depression and a reminder of what's being governed by this law. It therefore surrounds the security and intelligence system of the Republic of Croatia in one place. It is not the National Security Act but the Security Intelligence System which defines agencies, security services, their deliriousness, powers, mutual relations and supervision of their work. What is an important paper, i.e. on the applicable law, is that two current independent agencies, an anti-intelligence agency for action in the country and an intelligence agency for activities abroad, are briefly called POA and OA united into a single agency, SOA Security Intelligence Agency, and I dare say what is... at least so far from the debate in the first reading of the contribution of this Act that this approach, at least in this part of the Law, has been supported because it has been assessed that the unifying of these two services will provide a better part-time, i.e. the way the entire service works, better use of infrastructure, technological achievements, personnel, better education, exchange of information and therefore action in that direction, which is the task of the Agency, which is called the Security and Intelligence Agency, so mainly for the protection of the Republic of Croatia, its citizens of all possible threats involving not only the collection of information but also the fight against terrorism, organised crime and any other serious threat to fundamental human rights. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This bill has also changed some of the work... Security Intelligence Agency because it can now act abroad and take action towards military persons and outside the military segment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A new office is formed, the Institute of Financial Security and is defined by its part-round work, which determines actually the standards... Security, issue certificates. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is also important is the newspaper, and what seems to have come to my attention is the separation of an operational and technical centre as an independent centre so far, or a pardon, I apologize to the anti-intelligence agency, an independent centre that will carry out tasks not only for security agencies but also for other institutions such as USKOK, the State Attorney's Office, which in their work can encounter the need to carry out covertly, carry out secret measures to monitor the content of telecommunications. Of course, such separation achieves that influence, possible influence... agencies to such a sensitive segment of work reduces the possibility of abuse. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is an important segment of such a system is, on the one hand, the balance of a good organisation to make this system work well, on the other hand, the task of other institutions to monitor it well. This law retains everything that has ever existed... Types of supervision, parliamentary, professional, judicial and civil surveillance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The emphasis and supervision of the parliamentary, therefore parliamentary Committee on Internal and Foreign Policy has been strengthened and... National Security Councils in professional terms. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Civil surveillance has also been detained. Now allow me a few sentences about the differences in the bill, or the Final Proposal of the Law. Of course, in this Final Proposal of the Law, both nomotechnical and linguistic improvements and other substantial improvements were introduced to make the law as good as possible and to make its application better in practice. In this direction, the comments and suggestions of individual committees and representatives are respected. Of course, it was two or several rounds of questions that triggered and the attention of the MPs to the greatest extent possible. One section concerned civil oversight, i.e. the powers of the Security Services Supervisory Council. It was pointed out during the debate in the first reading that, at least in relation to the applicable law of this Council, they were constrained, so at least from some discussions they stemmed. In order to further strengthen the role, i.e. to indicate its importance, this Bill of Law shows that the comments of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and of some MPs are respected, so that it is now prescribed, i.e. It has changed the expression in Article 110(8) and it is written instead of "can participate", that it will participate, so that the representative of this Council will always participate in supervision when supervision is sought. E when he did not seek it, and supervision is carried out by the National Security Council or by the committee responsible. There were also comments that these councils could only be handled if they exist, so it is prescribed in the law, if there is an initiative of citizens or associations of citizens, otherwise, as already stated in the draft law of the Association, citizens are newspapers in relation to existing legal solutions. However, respecting these remarks in the text of the law of Article 110. The final proposal laid down a provision that the Civil Surveillance Council may request that the supervision be carried out even if it has otherwise learned that there has been a breach of fundamental human rights in the work of the security services. One of the remarks was the same as the Committee on Human Rights and the rights of national minorities relating to citizens who, after their consent alone, can be heard that they should receive a copy of the report on the conversation. This remark has indeed been considered, however, in a professional sense or in a security sense, handing over immediately after a discussion of a copy of the citizens' minutes could, from the point of view of the purpose for which the hearing was made, be questionably dangerous because that citizen could immediately go to someone to show the report and endanger the entire operation. However, we hope that a new paragraph 3 has been introduced from the proposal's intention and that the minutes and the recording of the talks with the citizen are kept in charge... the agencies and competent judicial and supervisory authorities are available. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The comments of the MPs have also been respected, I would like to note, in particular, that of MP Pera Kovacevic on the transitional and final provisions of this law. The proposer considered this with due attention, starting with that sometimes at least at the beginning of the application of a law, the transitional and final provisions are the most important in order to allow for the transition and the new structure to be made as simple as possible and without a problem, and in this direction the provisions are amended, we hope that improved and removed gaps that could potentially occur when they are taken over. Of course, there is also a certain section, a circle of remarks that at least for now because this is the final proposal of the law not accepted. If we can group these remarks, they again refer to this issue which was most discussed and which was the powers of the Civil Surveillance Council. I said that the debate on the draft law was based on the assessment that the powers of the Civil Surveillance Council were reduced, that it should be possible in this direction that the Civil Supervisory Council could exercise control under official duty and that it could have the right to direct supervision, so with the Office of the National Security Council and the Parliamentary Committee that this should be done by the Civil Surveillance Council. In the argument of this approach, it was often said that this was now possible and that this narrowing of these rights was, however, indeed with due care and attention he considered these remarks. I've already said some of these remarks that they've both been accepted and extended by this council. However, starting not only from the fact that it does not have to prevail in any way that anywhere else, the Civil Surveillance Council does not have such powers at all is that, in fact, under our current law, it does not have to be carefully read and connected by Articles 81 and 82, because the current Security Services Act of Article 82 states that the Council is acting on the basis of a programme adopted by the National Security Committee on the basis of the requests of citizens, state bodies and legal persons and on the basis of the request of officials. So, it turns out that even now, the council couldn't just self-initiately go into that surveillance. Therefore, it comes from the fact that the Civil Oversight Council has also gained its rightful role and purpose, should be based on the fact that civil oversight is taken when, in a particular case, there is a particular suspicion that fundamental human rights have been violated and that in such cases the council should not only be required but it is obliged to react. If these comments were accepted, we would have had the situation that we had already had in practice that the provisions of the law that I have read now and which are said to be, and I'm not going into it, whether they may have been too broad in the interpretation, in practice, it is the right situation for people who, according to their habitat, are not professional persons, at least for security services, they are experts in human rights and civil society protection, they are then looking for what would not be possible and allowed to seek professional supervision, administrative supervision, and that there is indeed a threat to what makes the contents of the work of the security services. I say, that in no way reduces the fact that we need to and necessarily retain such an institute as the Council for the Protection of the Rights of Citizens. It is not accepted that some MPs who have proposed to go further into the status of the operational and technical centre, not to be independent, be not only independent but to rise to another level of the agency's own service as provided for by the Hungarian model. Now, after careful assessment it would be for the state of Croatia which, through these changes in this law, tends to rationalise... the system and cost reduction through increased use of all existing resources and technical resources. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This would mean an increase in the system, the employment of 80 to 50 people, and would be an inappropriate burden on the state budget, and by allowing such an already independent structure to be independent and not to be questioned by its independence or by preventing any unauthorised influence. A very and quite justified debate was addressed and the proposals concerned the measures of secret data collection and what they are called short-listed secret measures. Examples were that the round of measures required by the Supreme Court's order should be extended, so that, of course, this is not the case. This was in the draft law, the final proposal for a law to measure the covert supervision of telecommunications content, so the measures of covert supervision of what is said, recorded as well as the covert supervision of postal and other shipments and covert surveillance and technical recording in the interior of objects for these measures remain, and so it was in both proposals, in the bill and in the final proposal of the law. He needs a Supreme Court order. What were some suggestions for these measures to be extended and to measures to covert data surveillance in terms of lists of phone numbers or locations of users or even measures of covert monitoring, observation and technical recording of someone in the open space and public places. Indeed, after careful evaluation of these proposals, after consulting other professionals including Supreme Court judges and after comparison with some other comparative examples, it has been shown in fact that these measures, therefore relating to the secret phone lists, to the recording in the open and definition or identification of the location of the users, are not measures for which these documents would require such a degree of protection when a court or minister or a third party is required, as resolved in which country. Therefore, neither the countries, the experience of these countries for such measures, require the court's involvement or judicial confirmation and, as a result, the applicant for the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not accept this proposal. With these two groups of measures, it was the fact that the legislative provision proposing that the chairman of the parliamentary committee on internal policy and national security would be a representative of the opposition party to the next parliamentary elections. The Proposer also considered these remarks and after further and consideration and consultation he did not accept the remarks from the fact that after a certain cycle when parliamentary elections are held, it comes with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, and starting from the outcome of the elections to the new establishment of that parliamentary body, our Parliament, to the establishment of the working bodies and their presidents, and this is the best opportunity to do so. This, in addition, was publicly stated, stemmed from consultations conducted during the drafting of this text of the law and at the highest political level. Namely, this law is professional but also political in this segment to be supervised by representatives of the most government in Croatia, the President of the State then the Government, the Parliament and, of course, the Parliamentary Committee, and after their agreement on this text of the law, a consensus was reached that this provision really applies after the next parliamentary elections. And finally one remark that I personally liked, but the promoter couldn't accept was on a proposal to change the name of these services so that we shortened either OSA or SOVA. That's what I think Agent Lucin suggested. However, the fact is that these are already abbreviations on the security of intelligence services for us neighbouring countries, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Slovenia, so accepting such a proposal would cause operational problems in practice so that it was not possible to accept it. I thank the ladies and gentlemen of the council. This seems brief and important to me about what the content of this amendment bill is compared to the bill. Of course the occasion is also about, the debate on this bill and through amendments to make certain legal solutions that are offered here further improve or possibly change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67484	Thank you very much. Two corrections to an incorrect quote. Honorable representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67485	Dear Mr President, the State Secretary has incorrectly said that the establishment of a design agency within the framework of the OTC would require financial and material resources different from that required by the establishment of the OTC for the reasons that existing resources contained in the Intelligence Agency, the Anti-intelligence Agency, the electronic reconnaissance service and the material resources and human resources already exist. This is therefore not about the larger funds needed or other resources but rather about rationalisation and better organisation system through the agency, but I will talk about it on behalf of the Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67486	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67487	Your Honor, Mr. President, I am correcting the inaccuracies of the State Secretary who says it is safe, that the security doubt authority of the Civil Intelligence Council is an authority of the Security Intelligence Agency to directly determine whether there have been violations of civil rights or that it is a threat to the rights of citizens by means of security-intelligence agencies or official persons in those agencies. If the name of the Civil Surveillance Council is then it must also have the right to direct supervision in those cases. Otherwise call that agency Pony Express if he doesn't have the authority. Then it would be just a Pony Express agency that would get performances, send services and agencies and then answer afterwards. That's Pony Express, then. It's not the Civil Watch Council of the Security Intelligence Communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67488	The Legislative Committee? Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, Committee President-in-Office Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67489	Your Honor, Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State. At the 71st session held on 6 June 2006, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security discussed the final proposal for a Law on the Security and Intelligence System of the Republic of Croatia and the members of the Committee... They are familiar with the reasons and interests that suggest the adoption of the law in question. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The proposer points out that the proposed law fully regulates the security and intelligence system of the Republic of Croatia as an essential part of the national security system. It states that the proposed law offers a new solution which removes the obvious deficiencies of the applicable law, in particular in the area of territorial and functional jurisdiction of the security services... in the application of the basic methods and the area of surveillance of security intelligence agencies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] During the debate, the differences proposed in relation to the solution offered in the proposal for a law in the first reading were pointed out. In particular, the members of the Committee discussed surveillance issues and the competences and powers of the Security Intelligence Agency as well as the issue and obligation of reporting to the Security Intelligence Agency and the Office of the National Security Council. Following the debate, the Committee supported the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's representatives by assessing that this legislative proposal is in line with modern security needs as well as the highest democratic standards in the field of protection of human rights and freedoms. The Committee therefore decided to propose, by majority, the adoption of the Law on the Security and Intelligence System of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67490	Thank you. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS, the Honorable Vice-President of the House of Đurđa Adlešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67491	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We therefore see the Final Proposal for a Law that reorganises the intelligence community with some new elements of the intelligence and security system, however, it is shown that there is still no appropriate balance between the protection of national interests and respect for the democratic achievements of the modern world, and hopefully the debate will be sufficiently constructive and the possibilities for the law to be corrected in some way by amendments. I'm sure we'll all agree that the most effective security intelligence services are those in which little is spoken and the citizens have confidence in them. The bill we have today will certainly allow citizens to continue to doubt the legality of the work of our services because it leaves the possibility of abuse of these services and other objectives, not just for the protection of national security. The way in which the regulation of the security-intelligence system on the protection of human rights and privacy is now proposed is a step backwards because it abolishes some democratic achievements that have been guaranteed in the current law and we believe that here it is indeed a stronger and better organised professional supervision in services but the part of which there is a sensitivity of the public and this is an area of human rights. This claim is based primarily on the exclusion of the Supreme Court in approving certain measures of secret data collection. We hold inaccessible that for covert surveillance of communications services, transport activities, then covert surveillance of communication data, covert surveillance of telecommunications data, monitoring of the location of users, monitoring of international telecommunications connections. Then, for covert monitoring, observation, technical recording of persons in open spaces and public places, and for the secret purchase of documents and cases, no written order of the Supreme Court judge shall be required prior to or at the latest within 24 hours. To this end, the Agency’s right to grant its own approval and that only once a month reports by the Attorney General poses a threat to their abuse and certainly reduces the level of protection of human rights. There is no reasonable reason to give up the inclusion of the Supreme Court judge in this case. That's what recent history has shown. I know that one part of it can be denied on the case of phone conversations, where the content includes the clock, the court, but the list does not. We believe that this part is possible to correct the amendments and that, in fact, it is the foundation of democracy or democratic policy that must rest on mistrust with the government, according to any authority because of the power it has. So we think that for all forms of secret data collection it is necessary to predict the inclusion of the Supreme Court judge, because calling for the trust of the people who work in this system is actually a totalitarian syndrome. Limited rights in the exercise of civil oversight by the Civil Watch Council are yet another link in reducing human rights protection. The complicated procedure by which this council must be determined and acted, and its excessive dependence on the Committee and the Croatian Assembly reduces their independence and operationality in the work. We therefore believe that it is necessary to amend Articles 109 and 110, and that this part can be changed by amendment because it is precisely the citizen's supervision that is far away from politics or somewhat remote or more far from politics and is already a certain guarantee. In addition to these provisions that directly endanger fundamental human rights and the right to privacy, because in certain segments of the Agency's activities there is no effective supervision of whether civil or parliamentary, so we will propose some amendments. In Article 36(2), the obligation must be made to destroy the documents for which the Supreme Court judge has not granted approval within 24 hours or even more difficult forms, if refused to grant approval immediately and to determine which procedure. In Article 70(2), it is fairly unclear. It is a solution to the reception of the service and the schedule to the workplace. It says, not to be supplied to the Central Authority of the State Administration in charge of official relations, that any records of the number of employees will be kept, or on the basis of which funds will be requested in the budget for their salaries. And if it is national security jobs, there must be a way to keep a certain record of the employees, and moreover, because not everyone is working in secret tasks, and this is how possible abuses are opened. A provision which treats non-professional behaviour of security intelligence officers to citizens as an easy violation of official duty does not ensure professional and polite behaviour of agency employees. Such behaviour should therefore be treated as a serious violation of official duty. You also have disciplinary courts that decide on cases of minor and serious injuries. They are made up of workers themselves, not of independent members, which is also not a good solution. It is then necessary to verify the control of the state budget and the possibility that regulations and rules can nevertheless be laid down and parliamentary control can exist over them. The question I want to ask you, Madam Secretary of State, how much is this law in line with the Council of Europe's '97 recommendations. the years in that part of the organisational separation of intelligence and anti-intelligence services. Clearly, you can refer to some of the neighboring countries when we talk about it, about the Venice Commission. However, I believe that, above all, because of our history, we have obligations under this document and I believe that we are not at this democratic level that we can afford to be relieved of our circumstances. And we believe that the increased powers of the intelligence community are in relation to the civic and political components of their work. I would therefore ask you to take note of how much the law really complies with the recommendations of the Council of Europe and the Venice Commission. I'll read only the parts I want to take out of the commission's work, and they're tied to control. So, with the protection of human rights. There must be an adequate budget control of the service. It is approved by parliament, but is often not sufficiently distinguished from other branches of bodies to which it belongs. So, parliamentary control of spending funds. In case of judicial control, it is necessary to ensure that the interests of the State are protected. All of this needs to be passed by a legion of lattice that will guarantee confidentiality, confidentiality, separation from publicity, protection of information and data protection and protection of witnesses. It is then recognised that services need to be able to work quickly and efficiently without undue distractions regarding the methods and means at their disposal. However, it is necessary to ensure that this work is minimally affected by the fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals subject to his investigations. The activities undertaken by security services are sometimes expected to be unconventional. However, it is necessary to have the opportunity to always check them if they unnecessarily enter fundamental human rights or when they have a destabilising effect on democratic institutions and the rule of law. So, I believe that your testimony is important to the recommendations, first of all, on the separation of intelligence and counter-intelligence, and we still argue that without the adoption of the amendment, the law is not acceptable even though it will be difficult to accept it in the most sensitive part that does not guarantee the protection of human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67492	Thank you. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67493	Your Honor, Mr. President, the esteemed secretary of state, the esteemed gentlemen of the council. What affected the Croatian public quite a bit last week is some agreement between Sanader Racan on this law and Mesic. I can, Caine wasn't there, I can assume that everyone in power is very responsible for having a complete one security situation one security oversight of their subjects. However, it is legitimate for citizens on the other hand to rebel against such intrusion into their freedoms. The law that is before us must surely change. Why? In order to make the first intelligence community more effective, to make it more flexible, so as not to intertwine the competences of the OA and the POA, but cannot in any way be changed to limit the surveillance of these intelligence structures. What does that mean exactly? It is good that OA, meaning foreign services and POA, an anti-intelligence agency operating in the country joins into one agency. That's definitely good. I've stood for that principle for 10 years. I've always said that in 2002 during the third-month coalition, let's say for Tudjman's authorities. The system we had so far was transparent in my court as if one agency wanted to control the other and vice versa. It was a system where no one trusted anyone, and at least the country was trusted again by the intelligence community. Fortunately, with these last-person changes, the arrival of Karamark has begun to change a little bit. They were fired not to say the honorable retirement of many of them cca a hundred persons, which, fortunately, went in peace. In the meantime, they stopped leaking information, stopped flagrantly violating people's freedoms with one word and the work of the service in some way testifying that we are becoming all, under quotes "normalr" country which has restrained and its intelligence apparatus which has often been involved means not only by listening to politicians, journalists, but also by hiding Hague indictees, by dealing documents, clearly all this for money. And sometimes by dealing drugs. That's right, that's right. Clearly, much has changed since 2000. What is de facto required here, and what in my court is unacceptable? So a change in the surveillance of telecommunications traffic, change in citizen surveillance when their privacy is Wednesday, means a relationship to communication with citizens, etc. In some proposals honored gentlemen, we return to the 60s in the last century. Only I don't know who's going to play Rankovic here anymore or I don't know Krajačić. I agree that the current moment leads to the unauthorized oversight of the citizen. It's kind of the moment we live, and past the intelligence community itself. I'd almost dare say it does wherever it comes from. Here, for example. Yesterday we were, for example. discussed the Law on the Prevention of Disturbs in Sports Stadiums. I, among other things, also mentioned the mandatory recording, which I usually stand for 100%, not only in the stadium, but also around the stadium. But what might have been questionable in some constitutional interpretations. The privacy of the citizens is every day I dare say on a test when, for example, You get into a bank it's normal to be filmed, when you enter an insurance company it's normal to be followed. When you enter a store or a department store, it's normal to follow you. The Parliament is under constant these electronic supervision, etc., etc., banks are increasingly networked every day.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67494	The council is safe.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67495	And above all certain, which is certainly commendable higher and higher than the one that provides us with that freedom and security. So the banks are networking us where more and more of this personal data simply lists others etc. But we all kind of regard it as a principle of civilization, something that is the product of this time, something that simply can't be done anymore. But this law is human rights, I dare say, dangerous. In 2002, the Constitutional Court helped us to change that famous article 18. The Internal Affairs Act, which allowed the Minister of Home Affairs, or Home Affairs to decide, according to his discretionary assessment, on the control measures of a person. Today, judges of the Supreme Court do so and let's say it's a little more civilized, the question now is how independent they are too. Now by this law you can gentlemen everyone, but absolutely every 24 hours you spy, and only after 24 hours of the Supreme Court, or the Supreme Court judge rejects the request for a follow-up will the intelligence officer have to withdraw. There's almost no civilian surveillance, and that means there's no external control of the services. A citizen who complains about the service procedure, and the complaint service estimates unfounded, means the service, the answer to that complaint won't have to explain, which is the hypocrisy of a couple exellence there is a change in that famous Intelligence Technical Centre, OTC, in part of the phone call lists so everyone will be able to play as his heart wishes. Which is definitely illegal. How are our intelligence services doing? Based on the law? No, they work under a rule that's official or I don't know what kind of secret they don't even have the right to see. Employment will be done as is normal without competition, but after that, if someone is not satisfied can be freely transferred to another body of public administration, which can be freely interpreted by hiring without competition, not to mention the downgrading of certain individuals, for example, political demonstrations to individual jobs across the state administration. I find that inadmissible. We can't go under existing standards on the other hand. The safety of the country? Absolutely. Why? Because it's our safety, as well as our representative, as a citizen, because it's the safety of our children, the safety of our way of life, our ways of expression, etc. But we will probably defend our security most effectively above all high democratic standards, and one of those standards is control of the intelligence apparatus. There will no longer be what happened in Croatia in the 1990s, but it was for example. Indication and that after 2000 in some way means at a time when we all said that we were Mirko Norac, no, followed by some athletes, here is Mr. Arabovic or even some bishops, and this should be prevented and there are no more important journalists, politicians, athletes or bishops, small or large people, rich or poor, beautiful or ugly. It's only about citizens and their human rights. That right has no right to limit anyone anymore. And that's why gentlemen of the highest concern that this law will oversee its citizens, perhaps the next day and its political competition, should be yelled to the sky. This law in my court has been written by the plane, the very intelligence community for itself. They bend the rules to themselves, they want to be effective, they want to be effective, and they are asked to do so clearly and clearly. But the Parliament is here to take clear care of the security of the country, but also of the freedoms of our citizens and of the civil rights of our citizens. We can't rule each other out. If the service had written the law, it says this on page 45, where they set the following goals among other things, and they say: firstly, a completely uniquely regulated security-intelligence system as part of a wider system of national security, a rational and clear division of territorial functional jurisdiction between the services. Third, optimally available operational and technical instruments for data collection and fully comply with the highest standards for the protection of human rights. Optimal adaptation of general government standards, pardon status rights and obligations to specific requirements and security-intelligence needs, etc. It is only there that a highly reliable system of supervision at the executive, professional, judicial, parliamentary or civil level is mentioned, among other things. The question of the chairman of the parliamentary committee is certainly also important, but in my view it is not crucial, but it worries that civilian surveillance is disappearing under quotes, spies. The spies are left without, almost without external control and that's what scares them. I don't care so much that there are now or have been the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, but I'm afraid if that's where the Prime Minister, the President of the Republic, and some in the opposition are going to say that it's not going to happen tomorrow when, for example, the opportunities at the top of the state are coerced, it's not going to change, and that's actually the point. Secondly, I am of the opinion that there is an additional need for apostrophe, i.e. Strengthen the Supervisory Function of the Parliament over these services. Right, the service always complains when it comes to the Parliament, that it makes it harder for them to work, that it leaks information, but let's also be honest, which is the value of information, let's say, that comes to the Committee on National Security and Internal Policy. That value of that information is modest, not to say sometimes questionable. Finally, up to 90% of all information can be processed today by some analyst, media browsing, newspapers, Internet, by tracking, say, assembly sessions through HRT Plus because this is not going directly, etc. So only by following Parliament can anyone agree on a picture in Croatia whether it's politics, whether it's about economics, whether it's about future government moves, parliaments, presidents, whether it's about justice, whether it's about the security of the nation, whether it's about opportunities in the military, etc. There are no secrets, there can be no secrets. Therefore, some prejudices of the past should not even be enslaved. Today's services need first of all to deal with crime, regardless of whether it's that classic crime, as during yesterday, the members of the MUP broke down a smuggling group dealing with arms trafficking, drug trafficking, etc. They should deal with clearly political crime, economic crime, they should deal with the clear terrorism which Croatia is spared for the most part thanks to politics, and of course they should deal with work crimes rather than, say, journalists of "Free Dalmatia" are doing interviews in Germany. With who? With Suljic, who was 1.6 days ago this year, he surrendered to The Hague probably because he feared for his life among other things. But this Suljic, on the other hand, was legally sentenced to 12 years in prison, fled the country, journalists came to him or came whenever they wanted, and the services were trying not to find him. Now why, I don't want to speculate. Finally, there are a whole series of articles that are extremely interesting, 40 say security check, I'm just asking that these persons in the Assembly, secretaries, etc. They don't check that way. Article 45 which are legal and natural persons who make a business, which should be checked, etc. in the supply of goods, but for the end, I'm holding another standard that should be installed. In case of changes in government, i.e. After the election, all the leaders of the ministry should make their mandates available, not to make their resolution difficult, or not to allow God to experience retribution. I know that there is one problem, because in this area they direct the work of the service and the President of the State and the Government or the Prime Minister, all one thing. But no matter what, I think it would be one civilization principle, but the point is still, first of all, civil surveillance, and until it goes back to the standards that we had, this kind of law on the security and intelligence system cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67496	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67497	Thank you. Dear Mr. President Damir Cain, our colleague said that the services should deal with crime, that they should deal with terrorism and that they should deal with war crimes. Criminals are involved in crime, terrorists are terrorist and war criminals are committing war crimes, and the services of these are supposed to detect and suppress both terror and these reveal both perpetrators and those who hide war criminals and criminals, are they threatening our security.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67498	I can't deal with crime. And the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67499	Your Honor, Mr. President, I am also correcting this assumption that Mr. Cain said the services should be involved in crime. According to Article 23, they should work to prevent activities and actions, but services not for crime but for organised and economic crime, and the prevention and sanctioning of crime is done by police. It's true that the problem is that in preventing organised and economic crime nobody deals with, and that you made a mistake for the secretary and for checking, all the big things in the world if you're reading books they've via the secretary have come to the data.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67500	He must have been a little misrepresented! SDP representative club, respected representative of Sima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67501	Mr. President, Secretary of State. Well, I have to admit I was most surprised by the speed at which we got to the second reading. So this is one of the few laws that came very quickly to another reading. If this law had seen any major changes compared to the first reading, perhaps I could accept it. I may actually be asking why it's important that this law, whether it's some directives, which is why it's important that we get it within a month. Why do I say I don't understand the speed? Since this law belongs to a segment of national security or that part of the policy where it would have been good if we had agreed between the two readings that there was no good will and this story about someone or something, who was agreeing with, as far as the chairman of the SDP Committee and myself are concerned, it is the least of the problems offered in this solution, that is, in this law. Therefore, immediately at the beginning due to a poor balance on how to apply the measures of secret data collection and supervision of the work of secret services, so the collection of these measures by the SDP Club will not support this law unless its 17 amendments are adopted. Let me explain. Therefore, this law offers liberalisation of the application of secret measures, i.e. data collection. On the other hand, the level of surveillance is shrinking and we are coming into a situation that we are at a much lower level from the aspect of human rights and their protection. In the introduction, the secretary of state well said that protecting the service is to protect citizens from terrorists from various threats, but it is also the role of this House to protect them, so if you want to protect the human rights of those same citizens. I am pleased that the government has once again accepted only one amendment that I made, or one proposal that I made on the board on Tuesday, which is that when this law comes into force, not only must the director of SOE be appointed, but also the other directors, or bosses whose powers under this law are changed. I must admit, most of all, I was actually surprised by the position of the Human Rights Committee. Since I believe that all of you, like me, have received a lot of letters from different associations and amendments that have been sent to us, and that this committee should actually represent this part of it, and that kind of civil sector I have to admit, it's a little bit surprising for me. Since this is finally reading, maybe another suggestion. Perhaps you should consider, given that there are many amendments, there will be many amendments, I have already seen them, perhaps if there is no particular reason for haste to consider the following. Let's go to the third reading, and then let's discuss this law together with the Information Security Act, the Privacy Act, and we'll check it out. And actually because it makes one conglomerate and then I think it would be easier to combine and easier actually to talk about it all. In that sense, we think and hold that, for example, articles in this law from 13 to 17 are not necessary for a simple reason at all because this institution, which is therefore the Information Security Institute, should be regulated in the Information Security Act. Let me now briefly, as I said, because finally reading is, that is, a final proposal ahead of me to make some concrete remarks that seem to me to be more crucial. Therefore, Article 30. As the article now says, it actually turns out that if any intelligence officer comes in with a badge, they can enter someone's database. In the solution so far, and we think that this solution should remain so that someone's database can only be entered with the order of the director of the service, and in that sense we have proposed an amendment. As far as Article 36 is concerned, we propose that all measures of secret data collection be adopted, i.e. with the consent and approval of judges or judges of the Supreme Court. To try to explain to me how you came up with a conversation in a bar, it's a public place and listening and recording that conversation something different than when you film someone at home in his apartment. It's clear that counterpart Cain was talking to the banks know why insurance companies are being filmed, you know why they're shooting the stadium and you know why they're shooting it. However, when a secret follow-up is in a public place, it also involves tracking me or someone at a cafe and in a restaurant and in a walk in the park. Now, if it's just video recording yet and somehow, but if it's listening, I think it's still a violation of basic human rights, i.e. incurring basic human rights, and I actually think that it should be done just by order of the Constitutional Court. Now you have an interesting story that's also on this one, which is very dangerous to me. This article is the same for the first time mentioned to you by natural persons and legal persons. What does that mean? This means that secret measures can also be applied to legal persons. This means that a whole company, a bank, a newspaper house, a party, if the need arises, you can add to the phones. That you can actually read mail to that entire company. Well, at the same time as you're talking about the Civil Watch Council, you're not saying that a legal person can also address the Civil Watch Council if their human rights have been violated, but only by citizens and associations. Therefore, I think it is inadmissible to have such a formulation that, according to legal persons, measures can be applied grouply in mass. We therefore propose that the amendment should be deleted, i.e. the legal person and the application of measures to them should be abolished and deleted from the law. One more suggestion. In one amendment, we therefore propose the following, that it must be defined within which time period the intelligence service must respond to the citizen when he asks them whether it was the subject of an investigation, whether his data is in some data banks, for the simple reason that we who sit on the board and who receive different letters know that some people who spoke to secret services for certain answers have never received those answers. So we suggest that it stands here, in Article 40, that the Secret Service must respond within 15 days. Now, Article 55. So, what about the chairman of the board of the Croatian Parliament? How will he perform his supervisory work when he does not report on the oversight carried out within the ministry? You're saying you've strengthened the role of committee president. In what? So he can show up in the service whenever he wants? But on the basis of which he will actually be able to assess when to attend the ministry when in Article 55, therefore, you do not inform him of these reports, and in that sense we have submitted an amendment. I believe that all these amendments, in fact, that I'm talking about right now, are not significantly disrupting either the concept or the essence of the law and that they might be accepted. This Regulation shall enter You know, I don't care if she's some kind of cleaning secretary, so if you want some kind of operative, a member of a party. But I am very interested in whether officials who work and conduct certain tasks in those services are party members. If you noticed, you put that only employees can't be, they can't be party members. I know that directors are also chief employees, but they are still being treated under some other law, and here I suggest that things be termed, officials and official persons that they can't be party members. This Law also abolishes one of the essential powers of this Parliament. Under current law, this House had the right to invite the president of the state and president of the government to submit a report on the state of the nation's security. And also on some specific issues. Unfortunately, Article 104 is abolished so far and the Parliament is actually placed on a lower step in relation to this trio, i.e. in this case the two-department of the authorities. We therefore propose an amendment to restore the possibility, in Article 104, that, in the event of the need of the President of the Parliament, this Parliament may call on the Prime Minister and the President of the State if it is necessary to submit a report. This Regulation shall enter As far as Article 110 is concerned, we suggest that one clearer formulation is still put in place, although the applicant argues that this formulation is clearer, which is that, in fact, the Civil Supervisory Council can directly look into the reports and other security intelligence documents and, therefore, it can, therefore, submit a certain application for these documents. Because if all this is standing here, therefore, that whoever is performing civil oversight can with a member of the executive supervisory department, so whoever performs professional surveillance, monitors, if he has no insight into the documents and if he has the right to documents only which requests a representative of the executive authority, or expert supervision, then that role is actually a member of the council irrelevant. And here, in fact, in Article 110, we believe that this should be defined, therefore, by direct supervision. The remarks that the problem in the work of the Council, and legal-work relations and the addressing of former and current agents to the Committee, we accept that, okay. And we do not insist that this must enter into the proposal for these arguments, or amendments. So, we should also be able to delete Article 118 since he's talking about this Office again. Yes, Article 121, I do not know why it was necessary to write that the President, therefore, the Republic and the Prime Minister decide what will be and where the documents will be stored. I don't think the Prime Minister or the President of the Republic can decide what will happen to the documents. That it is, in itself it is understood that the current service is taking over and I think it should be deleted. As far as Article 122 is concerned, it's a little illogical that you have one new solution in one law, it's OTC and that you actually have set deadlines for all of them, but you just haven't set deadlines when this OTC is going to function. We're here proposing on behalf of the SDP Club, so things get kind of a deadline, so let's say let's do it for a year, even though we think it might be before. Because it still requires certain resources, therefore, in Article 122, we propose to add that time limit of one year. As far as Article 123 is concerned, we see here, if you want one nomotechnic, we've heard the state secretary's argument. It is a bit illogical that an article, therefore, or only one part of the Law will appear with a delay of a year and a half. Perhaps it would be better to establish that it should be thrown out for the sake of the quality of the law and to arrange some kind of political will. So, I don't know, before the elections or right now that whole story actually works out because it personally seems to me that the law could be better quality. Here, then, summary. We think it is inadmissible, therefore, to liberalise the application of secret measures and to reduce supervision, that is to say, the way intelligence services work can be conceived. And in fact, these ten or more amendments that I have most important explained, we think is some kind of minimum that we should adopt in order for this law to be accepted. Because unless it's accepted, and I've seen some other colleagues and clubs who have proposed similar amendments, we're actually going to get into a situation, which I don't think is good. At a lower level of democracy development, so if you want human rights than we've ever been before. I think it's our goal, and I guess we're all trying to take it one step further, or a step further because I believe going back is never good. This is an opportunity, I think it should have been used to use this trend that is present now, some colleagues have spoken about the work of the system itself and the secret services, to be used with one such paper to further improve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67502	Thank you. The HSS Club, the esteemed representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67503	Dear Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Explanations for the suggestions we made during the first reading are very difficult to find because almost none of the proposals we proposed did not find a place in or almost nothing in the final proposal of the Law. Then we can either hope that through the amendments that we have made to the procedure we will come to for us a better, better quality solution or that people's road, and we will see where we will come from. I deeply want to believe that this is not a political issue, that this is simply a subject that speaks at what level Croatian society is at because the issue of the security and intelligence sector is today one of the most important issues that definitely affects political, economic and social consciousness, and therefore I think that the task of all of us is to find the most optimal solutions under this Act. Of course modern solutions also require time, the circumstances all of us are that this is especially the kind of law, that it is living matter that needs to be matured and adapted. I will list the six chapters that are crucial to us, which I would like to explain in more detail, which are in some way contained in the amendment that we have given. First, I'll start by narrowing down the rights of the employees. Why? So almost always by changing the government or by changing the director or by changing the structure of those who are suffering are usually employees in the services for these or those reasons, but it's always almost as a fact or rule that's exactly what happens, and then the question of those people who have to work very hard, who have to have special living conditions, special conditions of education, should they be protected from any policy? Should they be protected from being the sole guardians of the state society system? You should. They need to be protected. And do we protect them if we say that without the right to appeal, without the right to object, the director can move them 50 kilometers in a circle or that he can move them into another body of state administration? Do we thus protect them if we do not give them rights, those rights that all other employees have in some other way and that only the provision of Article 96(3) is sufficient? Of course not, and it's not fair either. This and that way is not fair and is not good and it does not work in terms of strengthening the system because there is no system without operatives, there is no system without those people who have decided to give their life to their country for service. So I start on purpose from the problem of the employee man, the employee who's in trouble. It's said that the loss of a certificate means the loss of your place, and you know it decides on that certificate? Well, your director, your boss, and that's the only criterion based on which to obtain a certificate. Is that enough? And of course not. It is precisely these employees, regardless of the policy, which the party is concerned with such broad frameworks of power are not good because they point to the possibility that injustice will be done even in the event there are no legitimate reasons. First subject. The second topic is most important to me because it is the content of this topic, it is the content of the intelligence and security sector, which is the Operational Technical Centre for Telecommunications Control. Why? First, it is concluded in Article 122 that until the establishment of the Operational Technical Centre, everything will work and be carried out within the new Agency, the Security and Intelligence Agency, which means that there is one time and that it is recognised that there is no technical, financial, human or non-performing at this point, or that it is scattered around that an operational and technical centre can be formed immediately, which means that the new service director will have full powers in this most important and most sensitive sector. Secondly, the Operational Technical Centre will either as an independent body or as an agency as we suggest it has its own space, its building, its people, its technique and its budget, and does it matter whether it's called an independent body or it's called an agency? Well, of course it's supposed to be called an agency, so of course it should be an agency. Why? So what's the logic if it's not an agency and if the Operational Technical Center is as the most sensitive part of the system is under the director who's going to tell him let's celebrate Luka for the measures. He'll say "I can't, I don't have a warrant," and he'll say "friend, you've been removed," and he can't complain about it. Why does he need an agency? Because it's on its own... Because it's interdependent with the service, because it's so everywhere. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's simply because it has to be. It's not politics, but let's not let us bring something that won't be in anyone's interest. And thirdly, as far as new employment is concerned, it's going to cause the cost, but there's no need, we already have all human resources, they're in part now at the Anti-intelligence Agency, part of the Intelligence Agency, they're part of the main headquarters of the electronic reconnaissance services. So we have them scattered, and they're not concentrated. So they're scattered, and they're not concentrated. The office of electronic reconnaissance has the most modern technology. It's good to have it, but if it moves from Hungary 30 degrees and it goes towards Zagreb, then it can listen to all of us nicely. It's not that he can listen to us, it's that he can abuse what he's listening to. That's the problem. Fourth. This agency would be economical precisely because of the position of power and would be defended by all the abuses that are possible, which can be created on the basis of day-to-day operational requirements, as the Director of the Security and Intelligence Agency and the Military Security Intelligence Agency shall obtain adequate tasks and then address the Director of the Operational and Technical Centre to implement the request. So they're talking to the principal to realize and that's a huge difference. Fifthly, the authorities for listening to citizens cannot concentrate in that agency because it doesn't even have them. It only exercises those powers. She doesn't have a concentration warrant for listening to citizens. And the sixth, as far as concentration is concerned, the application of measures to covert telecommunications surveillance is desirable in this case because surveillance is carried out only in one place and not in four places as it is now. And that is the most important reason why the agency and not that institution that will be in the Structure of Intelligence and Security Agency or Director. Chapter three, phone records. I think we need to accept reality, which is that in the last two years, we've had public calls on phone lists, complaints about whether it's an insight into the database or whether it's a tap. We're all having a fight together. One says no, the other says no. Since 2005 when you can still locate yourself, it means the location where you speak then it is unquestionable that it is a kind of threat to civil human rights and that it is necessary to address that instrument of protection, which is to issue an adequate order of the Supreme Court. Of course, the question arises whether in this year and a half we were in the gray zone system of abuse and possible abuse of authority, the question. I think this is very sensitive. It can be very harmful and there is no reason not to take phone calls to measures, secret data collection measures as well as others because there is no milder, easier and more difficult form of breach. There is whether something is in line with the needs of society or not. Therefore, I suggest that a list of phone calls be placed in the regime that it is necessary for him to obtain adequate confirmation of the Supreme Court's Supreme Judge. There's another way. It's a very interesting fact. Lately, they've been saying in the last six months that part of the technique has been so modernized, it's technically modified that it can turn on your speaker on your machine from the competent service and listen to you and that your phone is shut down while you're doing it. That's what they say. A secret escort as a secret data collection measure as well as other secret data collection measures as well as other secret data collection measures, I think it is also incorrect to enter a lower degree of human rights threat. I believe that covert monitoring and technical recording of persons and cases must be treated as a measure of secret data collection and that it is necessary to obtain the Supreme Court's permission or consent to do so. We are talking about the recommendations of the European Union, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I will read to you a document called "Internal Security Control in the Member States of the Council of Europe", document code 8301 since 23 March 1999. So it says precisely and literally, the document says: "For listening to phone conversations, mechanically or technically, auditory or visually, and other operational measures that contain a high degree of risk of involving individuals' rights, and prioritization must be requested from the judicial authority." Therefore, there is no doubt if we want the right medicine and the institution of the European Parliament. They've got him. Of course, all of this says that there is no need to ignore the safety of the country, that there is no need to ignore what is the subject of every law, but I think it speaks of it being possible to find a solution that will reconcile both. When I spoke about the operational technical centre he definitely will not reduce the security, stability of the system but rather, will give the necessary stability but will create interdependence in services which is very important, which is necessary and necessary. When I talked about measures like a secret escort, like a list of phone calls then I don't think there's any reason why we shouldn't go in there and introduce the director to decide because he doesn't need to. He can handle all this in an emergency to get the director to approve and ask for the judge's confirmation. And nothing happened. So he's taking out the list, taking follow-up measures, and in the meantime, as long as they're taking those actions, he's looking for confirmation. He got confirmation okay, he didn't get a break, all right. Therefore, nothing is happening in some dynamic sense. The issue of surveillance over the security apparatus is always the issue that is sensitive and should be dominant for parliamentarians, meaning for us who are the pillar of supervision because this parliament is actually the pillar bearer and the main backbone of the surveillance of the security apparatus because it is so everywhere in the world. Are we increasing our jurisdiction? I don't think so. Should we? I think so, because it would go towards strengthening the role of this parliament today in this matter, tomorrow in the second, but I don't think there's a more authentic right of supervision than it has and can have parliament. An additional body that is the result of circumstances, needs, or already knows what the Civil Council is for supervision, which in its first term has yet completed its basic task. And just for the sake of fulfilling that basic task, it's not good for us to cut his powers. That is why I propose that direct supervision be allowed when there is a legitimate reason but also by official duty. And then we got rid of all the dilemmas that appear at this level at the grade whether to support the law or not. Although I must warn you again that the Operational Technical Centre for Telecommunications is the most important dilemma and it is in nature, it will assess in the future what kind of service we have created, whether it is what it should be or every three, four years we need to rotate around to find out that we haven't moved much. Therefore, I think the government has time to assess, consider the content reasons why we gave these amendments, to consult eventually. We are always ready to constructively agree that one law would be better. And we are prepared to help make a common law that will suit the state, which will correspond to this Parliament, which will not harm citizens but rather have a sense of security that they should have.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67504	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67505	Dear Mr. President, my colleague Markov incorrectly said that he knew only one case of violations of human and civil rights of illegal dismissal to former PoA members, or VOA. You know who and I are at least 5 cases and these are those such as Buljan, Palmovic who were in the British intelligence subpaper who got fired because "MI-Six" suspected they were hiding General Gotovina. So tell the truth who I am. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67506	But a colleague of Kovac's knows only one. He doesn't know. It's not that, it's not a correction to incorrect ignorance or knowledge. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67507	They wrote to him like they wrote to me because they...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67508	Well, he doesn't remember, he can't, he couldn't remember everything as much as the one who, "MI-Six," did they write to you? Yeah, yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67509	“MI-Six”, Non-paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67510	"No-paper," yes, yes, yes. You wrote. Yeah, yeah. And prescribed some. And some were cheating, adding more inside. Yeah. ... These changes... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Fire. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Honorable representative Nikola Vuljanic, Club of HNS Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67511	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State. At first, the State Secretary expressed her desire for this Law to be accepted by consensus. Unfortunately, this isn't going to work out from all these discussions. Why? Because the procedure that the promoter did after the first reading was not what the culture minister had done. That's it. of all those major amendments, objections, opinions, suggestions and all that happened in the first reading was accepted almost nothing. Of course, now we're telling the whole story over and over and over again, we're actually taking it by the arguments that we've been leading our first reading. It is indisputable to discuss today a law that regulates a sensitive area. Not just sensitive because it's a matter of security, security of the state, secret services, the FBI, the CIA, and so on. Let's not get too far ahead of ourselves. It's because the citizens of this country are extremely interested in this. For this subject. And why are they interested? Because they smoke cold. Because they have a historical experience with various services. From, uh, what was the name of that OZNA, huh? It's the brand that finds out everything. And on and on These experiences have shown that secret services are prone to human rights violations through their concepts, modes of work, and how they view human rights. [[The intruders don't understand.]] At first, I would like to highlight a fact that is important for the start of a discussion on this Law. Namely, the work of security intelligence services lately, the last few years have been extremely improved. No more of those public and secret scandals that were happening. The sense of security from that aspect has definitely increased. Unfortunately, security services have not done much to protect citizens from organised crime and all aspects, the negative aspects organised crime brings. There are many good solutions in this legislative proposal. It concerns the technical organisation of the service. Those good solutions should certainly be supported. But it concerns the professional part of the law. Obviously, that part of the law was written by people who understand perfectly well how the system works and who are in the interest of the system working well because they work well in it. The second is the parts of the law, which are conditionally political, in which the policy is involved and which in this proposal show that the government has a great will to protect above all its interests and capabilities for the control of citizens and its political opponents. I would like to warn here of some of these aspects and immediately say that the vote on this law that I assume is an organic law and needs most of the 77 MPs, the vote of the HNS Club will be conditional upon the adoption of amendments to our or similar amendments to other clubs. I see that Mr Kovacevic has given similar amendments to our SDP Club, such amendments have come. First of all, it is part of the law relating to civil oversight or civil surveillance. The Civil Watch Council. In the past law, these provisions were made quite liberally. The Civil Surveillance Council had the possibility of direct insight into the functioning of the agencies which, in this case, is not the case. It is interesting, for example, in Article 110 when it comes to what citizens can actually complain about when they address the Civil Supervisory Council, civil surveillance, it is only about irregularities, illegal gathering of information about, in the use of the telecommunications system. It's like it's the only way to collect information about citizens. It's like it's the only possible illegal way to collect information about citizens. So if someone's listening to my phone, if it's coming in, if it's going into my email, then I can complain. But if he's questioning my neighbors about me, if he's harassing my family, then I don't really have anyone to complain to. Here in law it says it's not the subject of this law. It states that the subject is only a possible objection to the abuse of the telecommunications network. That is why we have submitted an amendment which is one of the groups that should be accepted. The law also stipulates that the National Security Council Office must report its work and the work of the Security Intelligence Service and which it must report. He must report to the president of the state, report to the Prime Minister. In the list of those people to be informed, there is neither the President of the Parliament nor the chairman of the Assembly Committee on the subject, which we think is completely unacceptable. It is clear that daily reports, or reports on some shorter periods of time, cannot be referred to the Assembly and should not be referred to the Assembly, but a report on longer periods of time, whether half-yearly whether, in any case, the Assembly and the relevant parliamentary committee should be given. A very important note also concerns the composition of a committee responsible for the issue of national security. In fact, the bill stipulates that the chairman of that committee is the strongest opposition party. Which, of course, is acceptable to one world practice. I think we're also convinced at the club that we should set up this parliamentary oversight in such a way that the opposition parties on that committee have not only the president but most of them. One more interesting thing. It is known that, and in practice, we all know that in some time, secret service officers, so the agents as we usually call them, are not exactly people who are going to approach citizens with a lot of understanding and manners. They're going to approach by presenting themselves, taking out the badge, the card they already have, I don't know what they've got, legitimizing themselves, and asking for a conversation with a citizen. A citizen has the right to refuse that conversation, it says in the law. However, as we have been trained from power for decades, even for centuries, when the official card and badge are shown then the citizen does not think to refuse the conversation. I think it would be necessary to enter into the law a provision under which an official must warn a citizen before the talks must warn a citizen of his rights. As police officers in American movies warn. There's no reason the agents of our service don't do it. A provision somewhere near the end of the law, I did not exactly write in which article mainly states that the application of this law, and when it comes to the parliamentary committee dealing with this problem, will delay for the next assembly. We think it's a very dangerous precedent and a completely unnecessary precedent. If the law enters into force 8 days from the day of its publication, then it is necessary to fully enter into force 8 days from the date of its publication. He's assuming that's what the proposer had in mind. He's one whole system that only works as a system. If we leave something out of the previous system unchanged, and what we intend to re-install into the system, that system will collapse in itself and will not work. Since the proposed text of the law solves many open issues in a more quality way than we think so far at the Croatian People's Party club, it would be a shame if such a law did not pass. But of course with the changes I've been talking about and the changes that some of the predecessors have spoken of. So we expect the Government to accept the amendments that we have made, or similar amendments to other clubs, or to come with its amendments, or if it is not possible to pass the law in the third reading within this short time period. I guess it's not such a rush that it couldn't be delayed in a month. If our proposals, especially those concerning civilian surveillance, are adopted, we are prepared to accept this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67512	Thank you. 16,24 is the time for the application of a 10-minute hearing signed up by 12 MPs and MPs. HSP representative club, respected representative Vlado Jukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67513	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I must admit that listening to the discussions of my predecessors colleagues on behalf of the clubs that I was a little concerned, I imagined for the simple reason that, for most of their discussions, it is a key or fundamental issue when it comes to this problem, which means the functioning of the intelligence security system is a matter of civilian oversight over that same system. And I was worried about the simple reason why they said it and said people who, in part of their political action, acted most of their duties in that same system. So it is right to ask the logical question whether they highlight the problem of civil surveillance, which means the abuse of the system for principle reasons or the basis of some of the experiences or knowledge they have gained by acting as the most duties in the system. What's a matter of principle and the important question is whether politics is not politics. Of course it's politics, because politics also makes a decision on something that makes an important segment in every country. The fact that this proposal, compared to the previous law, can read the thesis that an agreement by the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and the strongest opposition party in my opinion would not have to be treated as something negative. Because if that is the case, if this law is the result of the agreement of the President of the Republic of the Government, meaning the ruling majority in this House and the largest opposition party, then we could even argue that there is almost a need for consensus, and it is certainly needed in this issue about the adoption of this law. The state of the intelligence security system we had so far was such that we couldn't even do it, and we weren't happy. By the end of the Homeland War, the intelligence security system had done its job and certainly made a huge contribution to the Homeland War. However, after the end of the Homeland War, wanderings began in the solutions both in organisation and in law, and we have today a situation that is certainly not satisfactory because it is not a system that can be created overnight, because, apart from technical assumptions, law and political will, first of all, rests on human beings and that is why frequent changes in both the laws and systems of the organization certainly do not have a system as we should and should have. So the question arises whether the adoption of this law is a step forward or something else. At least we in HSP hold that, with all our shortcomings and objections to certain articles of this final bill, this proposal is still a step forward in relation to the existing state of play. There's plenty of arguments for that. To me as an agent who doesn't have much of a special experience in working in this system, but I have a few examples from counseling practice, so I'm going to list one. As a member of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security in good faith in the last term, I asked one question to the highest official of the Croatian Armed Forces, because I was interested in this issue and I received a concrete answer which was in its contents for Croatia and represents in every normal democratic state a top state secret. After a session of the board, unfortunately, I had the opportunity to read my question as a cover in the press and, of course, as a human and as a Croatian defender and as a Croatian representative, I regretted having asked him at all, but this example actually speaks about how some things can happen to the reputation of the Republic of Croatia and that this results from solutions that are not regulated by our system. Unfortunately, that's what happened in this House. If this had happened in any European democratic country or any country with which we are very much comparing on all topics, believe me, it would have been a major political affair with great and political and other consequences. We've had a few articles in the paper. I assure you, because as a member of the same committee, I had the opportunity to talk to people who, by this problem, were representatives of foreign countries, that they were asking this question with a certain amount of ridicule which, of course, came to me as a representative and as a Croatian citizen, was very difficult to fall. Because it is important to take into account the fact that the ability, efficiency, efficiency, the existence of a security-intelligence system is too important for each sovereign state, and it is particularly important for the Republic of Croatia, which wants to prove itself as a state at global level and can be done in a number of ways, however, the creation of an intelligence and security efficient system that performs its tasks fully and which can also serve certain types of cooperation at global level, and the argument that the Croatian state can and must achieve in today's world. We had another example of the poor functioning of the system so let me remind you of the story when it happened to us that the name of our employee of the Foreign Intelligence Service followed the event appeared in one week at the same time when he performed this duty in a foreign country, which is probably what happened to anyone who lives, acts, who has the state and who has the intelligence service, at least not in such a banal way as it happened to us in the Republic of Croatia. These are all the phenomena that contribute to the fact that the system has neither had a minimum dose nor efficiency nor what is most important, which is that the system works without harming itself, without public action that will cause damage and reputation and violate the rights of the people working in that system, of course the rights of citizens are also at stake. I'm going back to the beginning. If so many colleagues who have been board presidents, ministers, point out the need for civil oversight then the question is really whether in the past time there has been so much abuse that they do so in discussing this law in such a way. Suppose it is, however, the story of abuse, the story of human rights and civil surveillance has a broader context. I would also like to hear from my colleagues and officials when it comes to the need for civil surveillance and the need to protect human rights in the collection of classified information, because this is specifically about who they are, if there were abuses, who they are, who they were, who they were, who they were, were illegally, and for what purposes. Obviously, the only thing that can be done here is about power, because it's the government that can get illegally secret collected information from the service, collected in a way that threatens human rights, and the question is whether it was in past times. We can assume that it is, we may not be, but it would be nice to talk about the need for a civilian mindset to say that there are such and such experiences and that these experiences require this component of the Intelligence and Security System Act in a better way to address human rights and avoid the abuse of classified data. What could be determined as a constant for our intelligence system in recent years is a constant crisis. There are assurances in our club that this bill will stabilise the system itself and that this law can be a framework from which we can expect, of course, with all the other assumptions, that we will create a more efficient and efficient intelligence system. What's the newspaper we've accepted and supported is the abolition of an external intelligence agency that really doesn't make sense for our level of need and our material and other possibilities. One service is quite enough for a country the size of the Republic of Croatia and there will certainly be rationalisation and efficiency in action. What is an observation such as that of the final bill and which remains and which has already been made by our colleagues is the observation regarding the operational and technical centre. The idea and solution by which such an institution will be created is a good idea because it has been shown from practice that at today’s level of technology it is necessary to take steps with time. However, the position of the operational technical centre as a security intelligence service is not defined until the end of this bill proposal. It has already been said here that no deadlines have been set which we hold to be a minor problem. The bigger problem is what my colleague Markov said. The bigger problem is that, in our opinion, this operational technical centre would have to have independence as a special agency and thus would have to be ensured in that system that those services, which are services of secret data collection, are also services to the security and intelligence system and to the police and the state's attorneys. And that these services are also used in a legal manner, which is very important in view of the problem it deals with, which will deal with the operational and technical centre. The question arises, in the end, whether this law and these legal solutions are better than the applicable law. We believe that, yes, better solutions and it is more rational and efficient, and of course it could be discussed other solutions per article. However, this would not significantly change the essence of this final proposal of the Law, and it must be so to allow the Croatian State to have a small, efficient, capable intelligence community that can answer the questions raised in the next period. Because without such an effective intelligence community, effective and capable we cannot engage in a wider security system or have the illusion that the Republic of Croatia will also have something to offer in this integration process. But above all, the most important thing is that the intelligence and security system performs its basic tasks, which means protecting in its segment vital Croatian national interests. For the reasons I cited in the debate, we will not object to the adoption of this Law. Of course, we will take part in deciding the amendments that there are many. We have some of our own, and we believe that this law will positively affect our intelligence and security system and there is no reason not to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67514	Thank you. And the club of representatives of HDZ, the esteemed representative Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67515	Dear Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community will support the proposed Security Services Act because we have assessed that through this Law there are conditions for the services to work more effectively and that the fundamental objective which makes the Law adopted is to create a prerequisite for the more effective operation of security services, and thus to ensure the safety of our citizens than any threats, and especially the functioning of the constitutional justice system. Through this Law and by this Law, this goal will be possible. The goal is to make the law exactly what I've been quoting. Everything else is in function, i.e. the achievement of this Law. And when it comes to some law, then I think it should come from the fundamental goal of whether the fundamental goal that is drawn and achieved will be achieved. I'm sure he will. When it comes to the creation of service from 90th to here, then it is very difficult for them to accept the qualification of a respected representative who said who would take over the role of Rankovic or Krajačić or who said that the services were dealing drugs, dealing documents and hiding Hague indictees. Some individual may have done something about it somewhere, but do we have the right here in the Croatian Assembly of the people who created this country in the most difficult conditions to declare all drug dealers? Is that okay? Do we have to say something called "thank you guys for all the good you've done"? It's something that we, as Parliamentarians, are obliged to say. Was there a deviation? It was. Is that what we're special about in the world? We didn't. We didn't. You've got all these aspirations everywhere, and I think we need to go from one reality to another. And finally, let me just say more, to move on to the other part. listening to the debate, listening to the discussion of predecessors other than the HSP Club, they all conditioned support for the Law, the adoption of their amendments. Looking at all these amendments, if all these amendments were accepted, there would be nothing left of that law, that law would be inapplicable, ineffective and not even be passed. That is why I call on the amendments to be made by the Government, to accept what is acceptable in order to improve the Law, but to make sure that clubs don't think about it being a condition for all amendments to be accepted, that they also accept the law. Because such an ultimate approach is certainly not well-intentioned and is not an approach to creating a better quality law. When it comes to changing laws? So look, as security situations change in the world, as they change and create new forms of danger, so the system needs to be changed. If the system did not adapt to these situations, then it is normal for the system to rust and that the system would be only a burden, and no benefit and contribution to creating a security situation specifically speak for the Croatian state. The aim of this Law and the objective cannot be just control, it is a necessary and accompanying phenomenon in order to prevent possible abuses, but we cannot speak only in the context of supervision of functionality and at all of this Law. If we speak only in the context of surveillance then in other words we fully doubt the system we create. We suspect all the people we will bring in, then we doubt the need for such a system in the Croatian state. In this brief history, these services made a huge contribution in the Homeland War, saving many lives and many assets. I'm saying this from experience because I was a participant then and among those services and therefore I invite you to talk with a little more responsibility about these people and not running away from that time, if someone did something then let's process it, but let's not make the whole system look bad, dysfunctional, and declare all people irresponsible. When it comes to surveillance, I'm going to start with civilian civilian surveillance, service, people I'm warning you one more time that's rare in Europe. It has Croatia and as far as I know another country or two. And watch one more thing. By entering the European Union, and before that, we will simply have to adapt our security system to their standards, their requirements, because they are thus asking to provide both their information and their sources and what they will give us from the point of view of security. We thus strengthen our protective mechanism, strengthen it, but normally we will have to give up parts of our sovereignty and, in that sense, adapt to what they ask of us. That's normal. You can't enter a collective, you can't enter an alliance unless you've accepted part of what they have, or the rules of the game they're working on. It's perfectly normal and we need to accept it. In the fight against terrorism and even for the safety of a country, and for Croatia is of particular interest security because we are a tourist country for which the basic prerequisite is the security situation and the belief of other people that safety is good in Croatia because when millions and millions of people in Croatia come to you with their families, they come to Croatia to rest it means that they believe in the Croatian security system and that they are sure there is no threat to it. It is important and it is the best assessment of how people look outside at our security situation in Croatia. It was last year, it's gonna be this year, and God forbid it doesn't change, but every year it's gonna be more and more. I told you exactly there was an affair. Follow these services because they are of particular interest to the public and every little thing is normal to be on the public's attention and it should be so, not to run away from it, but it is necessary to try not to be and should try to make people do their job responsibly, but also forgive those who do so, and that is the majority and most of it we must give them a certain recognition in this regard. And now a few more words about the question of some debates. Says the government has the will to protect its interests through this Law. Not their own interests, not just the government to be the government, but the interests of the state. And people understand if we don't have a good system, if we don't have good people, there's no way of being good security. That's why this unification of services that have been done well, and that's exactly the trend we've had, the way they have in the world in the fight against terrorism. Our services should be organized so that they are compatible with foreign services in order to cooperate with one another as easily as possible. He cannot have a surrogate compared to other services because then it is very difficult and co-operated, and direct exchange of information, direct communication every day has proved to be these days when a group that has been working for many years of arms smugglers and builders has been caught. And now I have to say one thing that's been said here, which is that legal persons, so with individuals and legal persons, are being questioned by listening, or measures. These days, so when was this group of gun manufacturers caught so they wouldn't have been otherwise applied to them? How do we get the information? Well, it wasn't one individual who manufactured the weapon himself, it was a legal person who, under the exception of something else, produced the weapon. So if that's how to get to that legal person if you don't apply measures to her? I agree, and I think it's a good point that a legal person comes in and can complain if he has any information or knowledge that could put their rights at risk. I agree with that, but I refuse that legal persons, and these legal persons are very often, behind these legal persons are both drug dealers and organised crime, and here was the organized production of weapons. It's all because of my colleagues and colleagues that we accept this law. These are all reasons that we trust in our services because safety, safety level in the Croatian state is good, it is stable and it tells us again the most that millions and millions of foreign tourists are coming to Croatia on vacation. It is the best guarantee that the security situation is good in Croatia. And now the question of the president who told the board president. Here is the proposal that the chairman of the board be changed at the end of the term of office. Some say you shouldn't. These same system had the president and vice president in the previous system, and they didn't libily, as soon as there was one situation that one part of the ruling coalition had left that ruling coalition, the board president was immediately changed, the man who was in the coalition was placed. Both the president and the vice president had. So that's a fact. Secondly, some who fight hard here and advocate surveillance in the past have banned, although under the UNS law surveillance was prescribed, they banned surveillance and for a year and a half of the supervisory service could not enter certain segments of the security service at the time. It's a fact, nothing made up. That there was abuse and falsification of the file, so it was just a civilian surveillance panel that found the forged files down at the MUP headquarters. That's the facts. But dear friends, the law cannot be passed in the context of these facts. We must adopt the law in the context of mutual trust, in the context of good intentions and in the context of the aim of good security in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67516	Thank you. And the SDSS Club's esteemed representative, Milorad Pupovac. ... Measures must be taken to take action. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] What are some of the choices mentioned? [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] There's no choice anymore. I mean, the president. There's no choice for board presidents. ... Whoever's chosen that's chosen. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] No, some others are looking for some changes at the board president's post. Comrade Pupovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67517	My colleagues and colleagues! Of course, this leniency of the debate on this important law is not a minor moment in the parliamentary debate, especially this announcement of a handover before the elections between fellow Jarnjak and counterpart Anticevic-Marinović about certain functions. Allow me a few words on behalf of the SDSS Club. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67518	Order! The point is to sew a rabbit in the woods.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67519	Mr. President, should I give you my word or have you already given me your word?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67520	Here you go. I won't let these others interfere with you anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67521	Regardless of the conceptual discussions that took place before this reading and in the public in this House about the basic proposal for the structure of the Security and Intelligence Community and the Security Intelligence Service in the Republic of Croatia and the questions whether it is good and whether it is best for the services to be united and to have one common body, a common institution. I think this Parliament and this public have gone well. And that the decision to exist, that the work of these services is coordinated and united under one title and under several supervisions that some kind of verification has passed, and that those who fear that this could be an excessive concentration of influence and too much concentration of power probably cannot resist the argument themselves that the weaknesses of work so far have been in the absence of coordination and absence of connection, and the absence of adequate internal control which probably more characterized not so much the beginning of two thousand as the other half of the 1990s. But what we are interested in as the Club of the SDSS after the Proposer has adopted several proposals to amend this bill, first of all, that the proposal for documents on internal work and the Internal Labour and Interior Regulation cannot be merely a matter of the Director but that it must be shared responsibility with others. And we are on that side satisfied that it is not only the ingenuity of one person regardless of his likely high degree of responsibility that must have but that there are other persons who are responsible for it. First, because these documents will become classified documents afterwards. Therefore, documents which will not be subject not only to a public debate but to what extent the Constitutional Court and the competent institutions can discuss them when they get that kind of status protected or classified documents as they are now called under this proposal of the law. In this sense, the minimum that the Proposer should have made and that minimum has fulfilled is that, in fact, with the Director, he accepted that there is another person who will be responsible for proposing to the Government of these internal organisation and internal service work regulations. And on that side, that minimum is met. On the other hand, the same thing that our public and the good part of us here in the Assembly have offered, caused a series of discussions and a series of discussions is a matter of the powers of the Council for Civil or Civil Oversight over the work of secret services. We all know that the council is actually an ad hoc body that was created at the moment when we wanted to strengthen supervision probably aware of the fact that the Assembly committees and the Assembly bodies are still not within themselves strong enough mechanisms to oversee the secret services, so it was necessary to have this supplement, this ad hoc body that was accepted in the Assembly that needed to strengthen the mechanisms of the Parliament itself and, in particular, the extra-selection institutions. The reduction in the part of the powers of the Civil Surveillance Council has raised concerns in the part of the people. Right. With the right of me, regardless of the changes that have taken place around, with this proposal, which is that the seat of the chairperson of the National Security Committee belongs to the representative of the opposition parties therefore independent of the change that is the newspaper but is not a fundamental change. It doesn't bring a significant thing. A significant thing would have happened if the opposition had won most of it. Well, regardless of who's gonna chair the National Committee. That would be a fundamental change, and this is just one newspaper that's not particularly important. It is a kind of gesture, but not in the right sense and the essential sense of that word. For this reason, it remains, in fact, my understanding and understanding of us at the SDSS Club still an important question, therefore, of the work of the Civil Monitoring Council of Intelligence Organisations. Because our parliamentary bodies are still not strong enough between us or within the Parliament to perform their duties and that we are sure that they can assume the powers and competencies that, otherwise in other parliaments, they take or have no leftovers. So if necessary, they are being replaced by some other public agents, whether to the media or to journalists, experts or, of course, to the people of political life that we are. In this respect, it is, of course, the agreement of the applicant that the Civil Supervisory Council should exercise control over the work of the Security Intelligence Agency carried out by the National Security Council shall be given that authority, therefore, and have the possibility to carry out and may participate in the supervision of that surveillance. That in this respect, a type of sensitivity indicator of the proposal for the importance of the Civil Surveillance Council is. What the proposer didn't appreciate and to us it seems important, we'll point out here is the following. First, it's a matter of dealing with old documentation. The documentation which has been collected broadly and beyond the basic purpose of certain activities for the collection of documents. Especially if it's illegal. Here in this Law it is proposed that Article 41, it is proposed that this documentation will be destroyed gradually and we think it would be good if it were destroyed in accordance with a certain protocol and destroyed by a commission. And what would matter is that this documentation that is illegal and beyond the basic purpose of data collection is collected to actually be destroyed. This law, in that sense, should, too, be improved in that sense. In this respect, we propose that the representatives of the motions consider, on behalf of the Government, that an item be added to this article 41 which would finally set a deadline within which the services must destroy the old documents that have been collected in an illegal manner and that the deadline be of 30 days. On the other hand, what we also thought and seemed to other representatives of national minorities when we discussed on the Committee on Minorities is this issue of exceptional cases of measures, surveillance, listening, sounding of persons in the open space during monitoring. This is where MP Jarnjak cited a recent example of how that if a restrictive policy were to be conducted, so it would not be possible to listen to us, we would not have had as good action as we had yesterday, the day before yesterday in connection with some cases of organised crime. It is not about whether this is necessary in such cases or not but whether it is necessary to ensure the consent of the competent institution to do so? In other words, what is important is that the Supreme Court, is that the competent authority issue consent for that type of listening or collecting data obtained by monitoring in the open space. It is simply because we have despite all the successes that can be cited, but yet we have bad experiences in this respect and yet we have certain elements of abuse in this regard and it is necessary to protect citizens from these possible elements of abuse. In this respect, we, Madam Secretary of State, propose that Article 33, paragraph 1 and paragraph 2 and 3 which regulates this issue also be amended in this sense so that the monitoring request, the monitoring request in these cases is also set, in order to obtain agreement for it within a specified time limit, and not that this monitoring may begin before agreement is obtained. In this sense, the SDSS Club will join this bill as improved, as something which represents a good basis for voting but we will also see how it will approach these two important moments that we are also pointing out, and not just us but others that are more directly related to this issue, such as members of the Civil Supervisory Council and experts who deal with it. Mr. President. Vice President, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67522	Thank you very much. It is Mr. Krešimir Cosic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67523	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Well, it probably needs to be brief. I'll try to do it. The shortest possible security picture of the modern world today is much different than just a few years ago. For these reasons, not getting into the details of the role and place of the security-intelligence community and the security-intelligence system I would say today is more important than ever before for understandable reasons if we consider that 10 or 15 years ago the world had a static character, well positioned, isolated unlike today's times where these changes and all phenomena that change globalisation bear in a security sense are almost unpredictable. And here's so much maybe as an introduction. As far as the main debates are being held in the area of civil civilian surveillance of the security intelligence system, I would say very simply, clearly the following. No surveillance, dear gentlemen, I will repeat, almost no surveillance, no matter how much we strengthen it, no matter how hard we try, we will not prevent irresponsible behavior and individual depravity. Individuals who were in the security intelligence system, individuals like today, and unfortunately very likely individuals who will be. There were people who really sat in important responsibilities in the security intelligence system of the Republic of Croatia without proper professional ethics, without proper professional education and did inadmissible things. And because of that when we talk about surveillance, then we are talking certainly in the context of strengthening individual rights, human rights, but we are also talking about strengthening the functionality of the quality of the system. And what I would especially like to highlight is the improvement of the quality of the security intelligence system primarily comes down to quality professional selection, to quality education. An education that needs to be established. It is very much for the Republic of Croatia I would say a great challenge because this type of infrastructure in this country has not been inherited, it has been positioned elsewhere. The education of all those participating in the intelligence security system is interdisciplinary and very demanding, not getting into details. The question arises, given the structure of the Croatian University of our educational institutions where these people gain knowledge, except that they have gained some knowledge and experience from those who were once part of that security intelligence system. And these poor characteristics of this system that are unacceptable and that people are concerned about and that is why they insist on civil surveillance, but civil surveillance has its limits, has its rationality, and I repeat again, can't be a mechanism that will remove the scarcity of individuals that can be found in such a system. Personally I was even an inadmissible object, for me surprisingly and in '99. The year the Chief Inspector came to me and said, "Mr. Deputy, these are your conversations." Unfortunately, it wasn't much better in 2000. And because of this, when we talk to the security intelligence system, we need to talk not only about organisational aspects, not just about legislative aspects, we need to talk about how to improve the quality of its work, in the long term today, because it is in the interest of Croatian citizens, it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, it is a requirement for the integration process imposed on the Republic of Croatia through accession, full membership in the European Union and NATO. And I can certainly point out here very briefly that not for no reason, for example. NATO alone has a strong insistence on a professional high standard that must be respected in this sphere, not just a matter of ethics, but of expertise, technical normisation and all that determines the efficiency of this system. Because the efficiency of this system is often best seen today in various very demanding peace operations involving many countries, 20 of them, 30 of them where the safety of many people and their forces depends on the quality of all those involved in such a system, building its common security. And what's more than clear is that today's main threat to the modern world in terms of security comes from so-called. The illegal trade, as I said last time, and now I'm going to stress its value is somewhere around 700 billion dollars. What does that mean? That there is one parallel economy, that there is an almost parallel system that has its own interests and unfortunately from these inadmissible forms is also financed by terrorism that threatens not only individual countries, regions, but also global common security. For all these reasons, in all countries, the intelligence security system is located in various intensive stages of change. We can certainly illustrate what happened in the United States. One of the most powerful security intelligence systems on September 11th 2001 experienced his collapse and I will not say it personally, but I will simply paraphrase an American high-level official who announced the following, on the morning of September 11, 2001, the Air Force of the United States, the North Command carried out the defence exercise of American cities against Russian bombers. Incredibly, only two later now instead of Russian bombers appeared civilian aircraft that were the expression of an unrecognizable threat and it was a collapse of an intelligence security system that was huge, which was technically sophisticated, complex, etc. And the following is shown, that very often predicting our security future is no longer simple, nor trivial, nor easy. What should we all learn from that? I would say a lot, not getting into the details of today's global scene are coming up with some new technologies that can be new forms of threats such as nanotechnology, bioterrorism, etc. But in any case, for the Republic of Croatia, when we talk about the structure of the security intelligence system, I have to talk about in some practical categories that are getting more and more important today. Energy security, Europe today depends on the different aspects of its energy security on many decisions taken elsewhere and which are very often protected as the highest form of strategic, long-term interests of individual countries. In this context, the distribution of energy routes through these areas must be of great interest to the Republic of Croatia so that one day we will not be in an unacceptable position. I really don't want to, it's no place to go into details, but anyway, it's one important topic. Another important topic is the economy, privatisation processes. There are many institutions dealing with the world of Business Intelligence. One of them, certainly the most important center in London, "The Economist Intelligence Unit", which is very much engaged in economic privatisation processes in these areas. Let us not be surprised if because of the surface and lack of knowledge and interest of our security intelligence system for five or ten years we find that the energy resources and infrastructures of the Republic of Croatia are unfortunately owned by some others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67524	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67525	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is listening to a debate so far that raises several questions about whether the existing law should be changed at all, why the law is passed, or whether the level of supervision is reduced and to what extent. I think these are the issues that have largely occupied all the speakers so far. I want to say my opinion right now. This bill is followed by modern legal solutions from European countries, and it is entirely satisfactory. Why it is important for the Security Intelligence Act to be in line with legal decisions with the countries of the European Union where Croatia is today a candidate, it is unnecessary to highlight. Like the candidate country for an equal NATO member, we cannot have legal solutions that will cause us not to participate tomorrow in the exchange of all the most sensitive information important for the national security of the Republic of Croatia, but also for all NATO member states. It could also refer to certain remarks and give its opinion on Articles 27, 42, 63, 64 and 110, but I think that the most obstacles were around Article 110, and I hold in fact that observations and tend to reduce the level of surveillance, in fact more as political thesis which, in part, aim at collecting political points for the purpose of favouring the protection of citizens than the activities of secret services. The new law, as so far, provides for three levels of supervision. Professional supervision carried out by the National Security Council Office, parliamentary oversight through the Parliamentary Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and Civil Security whose implementation is foreseen by the Civil Surveillance Council. I believe that the jurisdiction of the Civil Supervisory Council is not reduced but only in Article 110 is regulated when and in what way the Council can act, and may act when there are justified reasons, means whenever there are justified reasons. The only thing he can't think of for me is to go to the service surveillance when he remembers, which means he has to have a certain reason and carry out surveillance. This is important because each oversight of the service requires the involvement of a number of people in the ministry who are obliged to attend and, of course, interferes with their regular cycle of work. So the council can still exercise control in cases where it proves necessary, it's unequivocal. This way, by listening to the debates, I have a dilemma about whether we actually want to pass the law to make it harder to act and reduce the operationality of the service or to enable them to act effectively and operationally. I also feel that by creating mistrust in the forward of the Council's office, which conducts expert supervision and mistrust with ourselves, according to the parliamentary committee, it is not good. We know that the Civil Oversight Council is acting within the Parliamentary Committee and further means it remains within these frameworks and I think that is enough for citizens to be calm. Our parliamentary committee under the new law has the same powers as the National Security Council's Office, so it is also certain that, as so far, the Civil Oversight Council through the parliamentary committee or parliamentary committee may exercise control and establish certain irregularities, especially as provided for by law that the chairman of this committee will be of the order of opposition. To cut the whole story short. I support the adoption of a new Security System Act. I believe that the adoption of this law will allow the security services of operational and successful action that will guarantee the safety of citizens, and thus contribute fully to our country's national security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67526	Thank you. It's Mr. Nenad Stazic's turn. He's gone. Shime Luchin. Good to see you, too. Niko Rebic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67527	... State secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. By creating the state and changing the political system by international recognition, it has led to significant changes in the bodies that have brought the main burden of the defence of the Republic of Croatia and so on in the security and intelligence system. In 1991, there was coordination of existing services with the new legal order, i.e. organisational, humane reorganisation of existing services and the creation of new security and intelligence services. Despite the difficulties of conditioned international circumstances and imposed war, the Croatian Security and Intelligence Service has successfully completed the process of creating the Croatian security system and the services have played a very important role in the independence of the Croatian state and victory in the Homeland War and, of course, I think they have played a very important role in the peaceful reintegration of the Croatian Danube. Clearly, by changing political opportunities in the region and Europe, the increasing convergence of Croatia with Euro-Atlantic integration, but also certain negativity should be said and should be said that it was not in that period a small number. There was a lot of abuse in these services and of course there was a need for legal reorganisation in that segment. In 2002, the Security Intelligence Act was passed, which formed 2 civil and 1 military services. These two agencies, counterintelligence and intelligence were involved in civilian surveillance, and the military, therefore, was in military structures. The added solutions should be said to represent a certain shift and progress, especially from the point of view of achieving European standards in the protection of human rights. In addition to these positive shifts over time, however, the Security Service Act has shown many conceptal shortcomings, as well as shortcomings in its non-adjustment to concrete security challenges and needs and cooperation with the same services in other countries. In defining the security-intelligence system model, in addition to respecting international circumstances and movements, all countries are seeking to respond to their own specificities and needs for the protection of national security. Following this, the Croatian Security and Intelligence System had to be adapted according to the needs and interests of national security. In view of the above, the proposed Law on the Intelligence System has corrected the mentioned shortcomings, conditions were created for the successful operation of Croatian intelligence agencies in view of the upcoming period and the opposition of all types of security risks in the future and their successful cooperation with agencies from other countries. Namely, the proposed Security Intelligence System Act is reached as follows. For the first time in one law, the entire security-intelligence system, its essentials, components and jobs are surrounded. A counterintelligence and intelligence agency in one agency has been united, difficulties in work so far have been removed, especially in opposing terrorist and organised criminal groups, human trafficking, arms, etc. Unnecessary waste of power and time will be avoided, and what is not negligible will also be avoided by an unhealthy competition between the two agencies. There will be significant financial savings. It has been possible to operate abroad to a military-security intelligence agency because so far the military-security agency has acted exclusively within Croatia and only in the field of military facilities, and the proposed law has allowed the Agency to operate abroad, which has shown the need for the Agency to work and is also suggested by international institutions. The law respects NATO, the European Union, which concerns the compliance of certain norms with the rules of these alliances. The obligations of telecommunications operators against national security and, respectively, against security-intelligence agencies have been prescribed. The Institute for the Security of Information Systems and defined its part-time work. A new body has been established, the Operational Technical Centre for the Control of Communications, which has become an independent body that monitors the communication of citizens, and not so far, the security and intelligence agency itself, which makes it so-called. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area. Talks with citizens in official rooms are technically recorded, and citizens confirm them by signature. Records and recordings shall be made available to supervisory authorities at any time. The supervision of the work of the Security Intelligence Agency is therefore enhanced, and parliamentary surveillance of the work of the Security Intelligence Agency has been strengthened, and in this regard the powers of the Assembly Committee responsible for national security matters have been strengthened so that members of the Assembly Committee are now entitled to carry out, among other things, direct surveillance of documents and premises in the Security Intelligence Agency. The stricter responsibility of security intelligence agency staff in the sense that new provisions on tight measures have been added, and the provision has also been introduced in the law that a serious strong error is giving false testimony to supervisory authorities, including the Assembly Committee. The Law includes a provision that the President and members of the Civil Surveillance Council are selected from the ranks of non-party public figures highlighted in the fields of protection of human rights and the development of democracy, which is why Croatia has actually become the only country where in the law persons highlighted by the protection of... , which means members of NGOs are formally authorized to control the work of secret services. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would like to point out that the only provision of the proposed Law, which can be said to have increased the Agency's powers, is the provision that the secret escort and surveillance are ordered by the Director of the Agency, not as before by the Supreme Court. However, such a provision had to be made since the provisions so far have created major difficulties in the Agency's operational work, as they are carried out in the open space, in public places, it does not objectively constitute a violation of the fundamental rights of citizens. It should also be noted that the legal regulations of no Member State of the European Union require the court to approve the measures of secret escort. The system of surveillance of the work of the Security Intelligence Agency has actually been improved and continues to be carried out at the executive, judicial, parliamentary and civil level. With all this in mind, therefore, I believe and hold that this is a modern law that will benefit and that will meet in the future the needs of the security of our citizens and of the Croatian state, so I will support this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67528	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67529	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, dear Mrs. Bagic. So the first thing to say is that we all need to be clear that neither the first-reading law nor the final proposal was made by the Ministry of Justice, but the Law was made by the intelligence community. It was also visible in the first reading according to the numbering page, that James Bond numbering one through one, two through one, everything as the number of pages already goes. It is now visible, that I must commend that in part of the proposals and opinions that have been accepted, which have not been accepted, it is the first time that everything is correctly stated who suggested what, which has been accepted, which is not accepted, it is evident from this that it has not done, let's say, the Ministry of Justice. And now that we have, and we know that's how it was, we need to know the next thing you know. Services are also of particular interest to them when they write legal regulations, and that is why they gave them various test balloons, which are of particular interest to them. How to get as much authority as possible and normally that they will always resist any suggestions that will go to introduce better supervision of the work of the ministry because of normal. So anything that goes in order to get more surveillance, they're going to say it's a security doubt. What makes it a matter of security if they're going to get permission to list phone calls? What if the chairman of a board or a Supreme Court judge is known to whom and how they apply certain measures, what makes it a security doubt? It's not a security doubt at all. I must admit, for the truth, that part of my proposals that I made in the first reading in relation to this part of what we have now received means in the final proposal, but I believe that now the biggest challenge is to this part of the protection of human, or civil rights of Croatian citizens, in order not to be the subject of abuse by this or that service and when they read such provisions, it means for Article 110, and for other situations, then let's just say the pessimist could not have been worse when it comes from the point of view of human rights protection. The optimistic pessimist would say it could have been worse and I think this optimistic one is right if it was taken as they restricted total human rights to those laws, their United States and Great Britain and other European countries after... and after what is happening now with them, that is to say, has happened in the fight with terrorism, and there must be a public statement here Croatia is not subject to this pressure and this level is far better. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But now it's a challenge whether we want this council entitled the Civil Intelligence Council to really be the Supervisory Council or the Council to be a pony express or a city express of security intelligence agencies. Why do I say that? Because it does nothing, it receives and sends to them, so when they get an answer it can send again and go further, but it has no control. Oversight means conduct, treatment can be done indirectly and directly, and there are two things that are important where we should go which I am amendment and put up with in order to prevent this level of protection, i.e. preventing possible violations, abuse of service work, is a minimum that the Civil Watch Council must have the right in the event of a presupposal, in the event of a reasonable suspicion of violating its human, or civil rights and direct supervision. We had cases that we were processing on the board that members of the service were misreporting the Council when, we had two cases that they had been given the wrong information. Afterwards we found that they had misstated and had done some things, and they wanted to cover it up and normally that there would always be a situation that services would always protect themselves and never give on the first one that would come, for example, if it went into direct surveillance or if additional media and other pressures were not carried out, we know what was the case and Miss Helena Pulec and all other cases. Therefore, we must not run from it. If we want to have a council to work surveillance, then let us give him the part to act on official duty whenever there is a reasonable doubt that human, or civil rights, are being violated, i.e. that the services abuse their position and authority. That's what we have to have. And when he thinks it's necessary to agree with the board or on his own that he can go directly to that case, that part of which he's suspected of being supervised, which is whether they've listed someone's phone calls, whether they've been listening to someone, who's not right. So this is the minimum where we need to take a step forward to say here there will be better service work that is certainly according to this final proposal of the Law, the solutions have much better and it is better law than they are right now, but I say we need to take this extra step towards the competence of the Civil Watch Council and this concerns acting under official duty and direct supervision in all disputed situations. Normally, that the Council cannot enter the intelligence network, normally that the Council cannot enter those things that in every country have a character of security and where they cannot enter to reveal a network of informants, to discover these other things that are not the subject and where everything is legally clean, but in such cases when Marko, Janko, Ivo, Pero or anyone else comes forward and when he says there is, there are doubts that he is being illegally tapped, that his phone numbers are being illegally listed and used. We had cases of doing it and selling it. We need to be honest that some irresponsible members of the service listed phone numbers and sold. They were selling because there was no control and we have to prevent that from happening. So we have to tell the departments okay. You have powers, but you will have control, and the citizens will believe most. They won't believe it, nor will Croatian citizens believe what we are saying here professional surveillance. Well, normally, it's professionally good that, that's what I suggested there was an expert, but at certain times it's also members of the service. Second situation, parliamentary committee. We were in a situation where it was our parliamentary Committee on Internal Policy and National Security in two cases that was wrong and it was finally found wrong and that the doubt was justified. Therefore, it is a minimum that I can agree to raise my hand for this law, which means that the Civil Watch Council will be the Civil Watch Council, that it has the right to act on official duty and to directly monitor in a given situation in a particular case of reasonable suspicion that human or civil rights have been violated or that the services have misused their powers. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67530	Thank you very much. It's Mrs. Vesna Skare-Ozbolt's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67531	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! With this proposal, the final proposal of the Security Intelligence System Act, the Government is trying to finally establish an improvised security-intelligence system. Of course, every improvisation has good and bad parts. In addition, in this proposal, the final bill hides itself, and I would say some intelligence and political tricks. It is good that the draft Office of the National Security Council is proposed as one expert body for the actual supervision of the work of secret services. Its Assembly Committee on National Security and the Civil Surveillance Council will receive a final expert service for their supervision and thus I believe the paradoxical practice so far will be interrupted that the board or the board shall carry out their supervision by asking the directors or agents whether they have worked against the law or not and they shall respond to them that they are not. It is good that the office will receive reports on the work of secret services and send them to both the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, which is a guarantee that the reports will be more serious and professional so that the President of the Republic or the Government will not be able to easily say that the secret service reports do not read but simply throw them into the basket. When it comes to the Office of the National Security Council, the issue of its staff is very important. What people will sit in it, and how will they choose? Unfortunately, the bill does not answer that question. And now, again, it is not proposed to set up a national security academy or intelligence academy that would educate, perfect and professionally develop career intelligence, counterintelligence and intelligence analysts. We today have colleagues and colleagues also the Police Academy and the Diplomatic Academy, and the Judicial Academy. Why don't we have an intelligence academy? Right where there was most abuse in this area. A particular problem is that no way to create and educate career managers of national security is proposed. Of course, that's not an accident. In fact, the government deliberately leaves itself with the possibility of politicizing secret services. Since we do not have career managers in the position of directors and other managers, trained managers and close to ruling political parties or those on whom an agreement of the ruling ones is reached will continue to be placed. In return, managers will direct the work of secret services according to assessments that are expected by the ruling party, or even worse, to allow the work of the service to be directed towards informal demands of people in the leadership of ruling parties. Now, it's an intelligence and political prank, and it's at the level of a political prank. Another trick is the suggestion that secret services can apply the measures of secret data collection without the Supreme Court's approval. It's called "put it on" in the intelligence jargon. So, the government suggests that secret services can get someone on board without approval but only up to 24 hours, so they'll stop if they don't get the Supreme Court's approval. Now, who's gonna control it and determine when someone's hitting on someone, throws on a citizen and when it stops and if the intelligence departments ever stop doing that. It is known that exceptions and in public affairs are made into rules. Now, how it's only in secret jobs. According to this proposal, secret service can totally legally and unpunishedly listen to someone for 20 times 24 hours if they take a break of 10 minutes after every 24 hours. In that case, everything will be in accordance with the law. Isn't it strange that the whole law, and then this prank was proposed by exactly the trained managers in secret services? What is the key to the lack of this final bill? Well, I think the key is the lack of his inconsistency. This is due to the fact that there is no national security law establishing the exact content and objectives of national security. That is why we have a paradoxical fact that a security-intelligence system is prescribed to protect unknown content and unknown national security objectives. We are convinced at the Democratic Centre that such a government approach is not the result of oversight or intricacies but of the intention of keeping space in this area precisely for political and intelligence pranks. If the government really wanted to take care of this area in a consistent manner, I would propose a national security law. It would prescribe the content and objectives of national security and define the structure of the security-intelligence system. Ways would be prescribed to create career intelligence and career managers of national security. However, of course career managers, intelligence would prevent any government from politicizing secret services. That's why the government is going with such an unconsistent proposal because it corresponds to both the government and trained managers in secret services. So we need trained people, not career managers. Trained managers need a government that doesn't ask for their elimination. And it's a public secret of love between the government and the trained managers. At first sight is a very good proposal for the Committee on National Security to be chaired by a representative of the strongest opposition party. When a proposal is added that this applies only after the next parliamentary elections, then it is clear that it is a political-intelligence joke. Why should all the provisions of the law come into force immediately and only this one? What's the problem? Why must HDZ chair the committee until parliamentary elections? The logical answer is only one. Because it may be intended to abuse secret services for political purposes. An additional trick is that after a possible victory in the next HDZ elections, the law can be changed by eradicating that provision. And if the election comes and defeats count on this provision to guarantee their continued control of the secret services. Namely, if the other government wants to delete this provision, HDZ will accuse it of non-democracy. And now allow me a few more words about the work of the Secret Service Supervisory Council. I will set my example and certainly others would if they scratched a little. After writing in the press that the POA followed me, I submitted a play in which I asked the competent institution to determine if the Secret Service had been stalking and listening illegally. And in accordance with the Security Services Act, I sent the presentation through the Parliamentary Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, so I sent it to the Security Services Supervisory Council. The Assembly Committee received my presentation on 21 March this year, and on 24 March, it already informed me by letter that it had sent my presentation to the Supervisory Council. In my play, I wrote five very strong indications that the Secret Service had been stalking and listening to me against the law. Some of these indications have already been reported on the Evening and Morning List. The Security Services Supervisory Council invited me to a conversation that took place on April 13th. And now instead of questioning agents and secret service directors, was there illegal stalking or listening to the Council informing me that there was simply no mechanism to determine whether I was being illegally tapped? But it sounds really amazing but the true Council has informed me that the POA check found that I am not in the category of persons planning to destroy the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. I think I should have been pleasantly surprised by that. I was also informed by the Council that they are continuing to work on checking the allegations from my performance even though they are listed in my performances of such a nature that they can be checked in one day. And now that was two months ago, I expect the Council to continue to call me back and tell me that it has been determined that I am probably neither international nor domestic terrorist. So it's been two months. I'm still waiting for an answer to my question whether the Secret Service has been stalking me and listening legally or against the law. So here's my dear colleague and colleague I've just set my example of how they work, how does the Civil Surveillance and Secret Service Council function under the law? So I have to say, in conclusion, with this law, I'm not satisfied and I think we should send it to the third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67532	Thank you. Mr. Damir Cain. He's gone. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67533	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Respected secretary of state. As a teacher here, where colleague Vesna Škare-Ozbolt finished, perhaps I would also begin my debate on this final proposal for a law on the security and intelligence system of the Republic of Croatia. So Mrs. Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, who was a member of the government and far from that, no one was in the government or not in the government or an ordinary citizen could be a proposal, a subject of processing if there are serious doubts and so on. But what does this example say and how things work? How about a clean political reckoning? Was he, in fact, and to what extent might that never be determined how things stand? And why, therefore, this equative example and also our citizens and these ordinary citizens have very negative experiences with these services that have always been hated in these political areas and have never been given those sympathys that they need to be to really deal with purely national security. The security of the constitutional order. They always unfortunately had the great power and authority that the people and citizens had given them. We here in the Parliament are doing these constitutional functions right now, but they have often been abused. And therefore, by gaining such a negative experience, all of us must be very careful with such laws. Because today or tomorrow more or less, that law concerns all of us. To assume, however, that the laws will be more permanent than one government. Especially if they are brought in the second half of the term of office. We should all think about it a little longer. Not just from today until tomorrow. Here you can see this fact which has already been warned here by Mrs. Snježana Bagic, who is the State Secretary of the Justice Department here today on behalf of the Government defends this Law, as the people would say, which the people would say: "Neither onion nor onion smells." But if it were in law what it takes to be a greater protection of the security of citizens and greater guarantee and control of services, then a greater guarantee of human rights then it seems to me somehow that the Ministry of Justice would have just been a resolute ministry over this law. But at this point when it comes to, now it's quite clear, to dejudicialization of the service then it's amazing. The justice ministry was the first to stand up against demeaning the judicial authority. That judges of the Supreme Court are declaring obstacles to the efficiency of the work of the security and intelligence system or its services. The Resort Ministry should take care of that right now. But that's his position in the government, and there's obviously no way to fight for another. And I'm saying it's not good. It's not good because here are the witnesses. We're getting more rights, and we're legalizing, bringing, ratifying. A whole series of international agreements, conventions that extend the rights, human rights of these or those groups, and then we pass laws that limit these rights nicely, and in practice, these restrictions are neither adhered to nor those restrictions but are further violated. And that's something that's everyday, and it seems to me that we're bringing more and more rights that are increasingly in danger and are being violated. Here you can see at this point when we declare that the state of security in our country is well. We all like to believe that that's the way it is, and then we read in the papers, in our media, how Americans fly, land, fly and fly with their planes that our security services have no idea about it. But they probably know who's with whom? They've got a leaf. Who shared the phone with whom? Who called who? It's very dangerous for this country. It's simply as it is, as the law set out that it is not at all in the control of the court, such as simple sport, internal sport within the service itself. When they don't have enough time like this, they tap in nice and listen. But already smarter people when they have something to say, they don't even talk like that. So this final proposal of the Law on the Security and Intelligence System of the Republic of Croatia, which gives such powers beyond the supervision of the Supreme Court judges, is therefore one, one addition to that action, "Let them hear.". So let them listen freely. You see, it's very symptomatic how our authorities actually think about human rights and the exercise of human rights. This may be best seen from the explanation of those proposals that the applicant did not accept, and even more so, it is not even surprising to the fact that these proposals are not accepted, but even more surprising is the fact that the non-acceptation of these proposals is not accepted. So this is not how the proposals for representatives, several representatives, are accepted, so that the National Security Committee of the Croatian Parliament is required to agree on the method of intelligence. Because it's a proposed person, i.e. The government if they would, if we would accept it in a certain way they would come... MPs in the Croatian Parliament, as people's enemies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also not accepted by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities that the powers of the Civil Control Council are a significant reduction, which is an irrefutable fact. And it's an important feature and an important step back from this law. That's what I'm talking about. What he has at first looked at as one advance is an organisational form. However, it is a strictly professional part of the work, so only those who often work inside can see what are positive or negative effects, whether we have one intelligence community or more of them and that they are under the auspices or under the hat of one. So that organisational part, of course, is important, because it depends on both the effectiveness and efficiency of the work of the intelligence system itself, or its services. But the most important thing is how to prevent abuses and how to enable control. Clearly, it interferes with the efficiency of their efficiency, efficiency. But always such laws, such as this law, they must find a measure between efficiency and the protection of human rights which criminal acts and other procedures applying laws, which significantly restrict human rights. Even theirs, theirs, their fundamental rights such as freedom, honor, frequent property, and even the deprivement of freedom. E Proposer says the Civil Surveillance Council has even greater powers, i.e. they are not reduced by law. But it explains, therefore, these important remarks, which are also mentioned in the first reading, and here is the current debate on this subject that the Proposer does not respond at all, nor does it reflect. However, what is really symptomatic, which is, and these are the reasons why the MPs' proposals are rejected, that the operational technical control centre for telecommunications is perceived as a new independent agency, i.e. service according to the model of many European countries, including many transition countries that have accepted this model. E says the promoter if this would be accepted then we would have to employ 80 to 150 people who in one place would concentrate large possibilities of power to listen to citizens. And this is how dispersion and blackmail are mutual. And therefore the rule of mutual fear, and this law is also meant not only to trust citizens, it's a minor matter. At the end of this ministry, they have the right to do so, by law and ground, and to question individual citizens and to take action. That's not the point. It's the service itself as the law conjectures them, they don't trust each other. And that's not good, that the government doesn't trust itself. And it has no major trust in the third branch of power, in the power of destiny that it sought to isolate maximum. There's only so much that some forms are satisfied. There and there, therefore, is a monthly report by the State's Attorney's office, which is exactly the person of the state's attorney, but that's little, that's too little, and that's at a level of more curtsy, not serious control of the legality of conduct. And it's not good to say the way they're being admitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67534	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67535	Well, I'm going to end up with the fact that lately the cook is being admitted to POA, and it's not good for the POA, or this and later security system to turn into a kitchen, because nothing for the citizens of this country is going to cook well.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67536	Thank you. It's a justice system that controls everything. We didn't listen to you when you were a minister about it. Tomislav Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67537	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Secretary of State. Here after these discussions I have the need to read one sentence in Article 1, this law is aimed at systematic collection, analysis, processing and evaluation of data that are important for national security in order to detect and prevent working individuals or groups, which are directed against the existence, independence, unity and sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia and that legislation but also makes certain changes through this law and I consider the Security and Intelligence System Act of the Republic of Croatia as a positive step. Because it also ensures a more rational organisation of intelligence agencies, one civilian, one military, and thus certainly ensuring greater efficiency of the service, more quality work, reducing costs, more fully covering security threats, simplifying procedures, but also controlling the work of the service. Organizationally well-designed. I particularly welcome the separation of the Operational Technical Centre, as it is possible for the OTC to pass its powers and, in terms of the rationality and functionality of the system and its technical capacity to be used for both the needs of the police and the state's attorney's office and the USKOK, and, in particular, from the confusion these bodies have in the fight against organised crime and corruption. And speaking of the OTC, it was also debated whether the agency, whether OTC, but still encourages me to do Article 20(3) where it says that the Security Intelligence Agency and the Military Intelligence Agency in cooperation with another body authorised to apply covert surveillance measures, telecommunications in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Act, but with the consent to co-ordination of security-intelligence agencies means bringing in measures and operational technical, technical equipment, but also issues for the activation and application of security surveillance measures. The National Security Council shall receive and extend its work since it is competent to discuss and assess intelligence and security threats and risks, and shall consider the issues raised in the section of individual ministries and other state bodies, and shall provide guidance and conclusions on how to protect and achieve the interests of national security. The Security Intelligence Coordination Council as a co-ordinated, operational and expert body has been expanded with service leaders who are important for the operation of a system of repression and prevention of criminal offences such as police, customs, State Inspectorate, State Attorney's Office, which stresses better coordination of all roles at operational technical level in order to protect national interests. The Office of the National Security Council, in addition to performing its professional and administrative tasks, is responsible for the professional supervision of intelligence services, and is also a central supervisory body, a central body for national security and coordination to the European Union and NATO standards. The proposed law fully prescribes all the components of the security-intelligence system, work and mutual relations, powers, jobs, organisation, management and supervision of the work of intelligence agencies and all in order to act effectively. I think it is important to note that national security and security is generally crucial for the survival of each country, and especially after 11 September 2001, as well as by counterpart Kreso Ćosic. It is extremely important that the Republic of Croatia has a good security-intelligence system that will ensure security for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, as well as for all other tourists who come in particular, who in no way, or in an increasing number, come to spend their vacation in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, we must have services able to collect and exchange information in the context of international cooperation at bilateral, regional and multilateral level, in the context of the fight against terrorism, and that also determines our individual and common security. The appearances, the people who wish us evil from day to day, change their methods, way of work, execution, are increasingly brutal and radical and our services must indeed be ready to respond to all these challenges. We can only respond to good service organisation, good regulation, but also to the continuous training of people employed in the ministry. Of course by training and by very professional selection of staff high-school and quality personnel. I believe that this legislative proposal ensures the achievement of the objective, it is right for a moment to adopt it because intelligence services are now working well thanks to the leaders, the resolution ministers, but also to their mutual cooperation. There is remarkable progress in the work, the services work according to the rule of law, and what is a prerequisite for successful law enforcement. Absolute depoliticalisation and professionalisation of services ensure the implementation of this law, namely rationalisation, efficiency, proper supervision, and the security of citizens, the trust of citizens and the protection of national interests and security in full. Based on this, I support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67538	Thank you. Mr. Representative Josip Djakić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67539	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The final proposal of the Law on the Security and Intelligence System of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the need for this law, stems from the lack and real shortcomings in the current law and wants to correct these shortcomings and to include the quality definition of such matter in world and European norms and to finally create the key to legally and effectively serving those instruments, all in order to achieve security interests in the preventive security and intelligence and repressive and judicial evidence. The procedure for the approval of secret measures or measures which legally reach into the constitutional rights of citizens to their privacy and, on the one hand, develop and coordinate this proposal with contemporary needs, for example, covert monitoring in the open space and public places, as well as certain forms of legal oversight of telecommunications on the one hand, while on the other hand, the interest in the simplified procedure of their application is evident in order to increase operational speed and extreme efficiency. For such a categorized solution that subtly balances and optimally reconciles the interests of the efficiency of services and the protection of other rights of citizens, there are reliable comparative examples in countries of unquestionable security and democratic standards. The problems were evident and had to be corrected by this law, and they were expressed in the areas of legal monitoring of telecommunications traffic procedures for the approval of measures which achieve constitutional rights to the privacy of citizens and communication with citizens. Communication between the agencies, in particular the POA with citizens, has also shown certain legal irregularities that have partly facilitated the emergence of disputed situations in the application of the law and even generated public affairs that have damaged reputation, professional discretion and the security of the function of employees. And, of course, taught by such bad and harmful experience in the new legislative proposal insists on the legitimacy of officials during their official actions, i.e. requests for citizens. It warns citizens with their rights, i.e. freedom of choice of acceptance of communication with officials and of the mandatory recording of conversations in official premises. Therefore, it is not certain that the claims made today are that there is a hatred of our services by the citizens. The hatred exists, but also because of those former services that were truly hated, such as KOS and UDBA, and that is undeniable. The identification with today's services is not possible because both their jurisdiction and the part-time work as well as the powers are quite different and the supervision itself in them says that they are really in the function of security and security situations in the Republic of Croatia. This Law regulates the entire security and intelligence system of the Republic of Croatia as an essential part of the national security system. The law fully defines all elements of this system, their interrelationships and the way and direction of individual and joint functioning, as well as the specific forms of professional parliamentary and civil or civilian supervision. This legislative proposal intends to prescribe all the components of the security-intelligence system, their division and their relationship with each other, the tasks and powers of security-intelligence agencies, the establishment and management of security-intelligence agencies, the status of the rights and obligations of officials and employees, the supervision of security-intelligence agencies. So everything is defined by these legal decisions and ultimately, and other words, the legal proposal guarantees the following norms. And this is a comprehensive and unique legally regulated security and intelligence system as part of a wider national security system of the Republic of Croatia. A rational and clear division of territorial and functional competences between the settlements in accordance with real security needs and specific and autonomous safety units, military and civil. Optimally available operational and technical instruments for data collection, gradually comply with the highest standards of human rights protection. Optimal adaptation of general state-level, status rights and obligations to specific requirements and the needs of security-intelligence work. A highly reliable system of supervision of the executive, judicial, parliamentary and civil or civil level. In particular, we note that this legislative proposal is fully in line with the standards of the security and intelligence systems of the countries of the European Union and of the members of NATO. Therefore, it is undeniable and its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67540	Thank you very much. Mrs. Zdenka Babic-Petricevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67541	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I am already the name of the Law on the Security and Intelligence System of the Republic of Croatia, which explains the intensities of the legislator. I will quote from the basic provisions of Article 1 which is already quoted by my predecessor, but in this article, the basic provisions contain everything we need to adopt this Law as soon as possible and in the hope that it will improve the standard of the security system of the Republic of Croatia. "This law aims at systematic collection, analysis, processing and evaluation of data which are important for national security in order to detect and prevent different individuals or groups that are aimed at the existence, independence, unity and sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, the violent destruction of the structure of state authorities, the threat of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the laws of human rights and fundamental freedoms established." The security system must be well organized, and I am delighted that this Law has experienced a second reading within a short time period, and it is those who have not had the courage, who have worked differently, who object to a second reading, or suggest even a third reading. The safety system of the Republic of Croatia must be well organised and must not experience entropy again. The entropy in intelligence, informative terms, is a measure of disorientation. This lesson was paid by many but painful states, even September 11. I mean, I don't even need to elaborate, but I'll just remind you of a few things. In 2002, the security system, the complete infrastructure of the HIS and SIS, a abolished intelligence academy, a non-professional, inhumane relationship with people, or officials, was destroyed. The release of people in one day 120 in a nonhuman way and we must not forget, gentlemen, man is capital and must not be kicked because he is not from a balloon. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now go through short legal solutions because it does not allow me 10 minutes to talk about every article of the proposed law. Except for uniting intelligence agencies and... Anti-intelligence agencies in the new SOA agency, the Security Intelligence Agency is also forming a new military-security intelligence agency. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The design of the SOA has used the experience of the Euro-Atlantic integration countries that we are seeking, and we must do so first because of us. Almost all of Europe's countries with 10 million inhabitants and those less like that, Croatia has decided on such a solution, bringing together more significant financial savings. An important moment other than accuracy is the timelyity of information that increases with such a solution. The information to have, but so it doesn't become, the information to have but not to come at the right time as if we don't have the information. Gentlemen, we should especially emphasize something we can't forget. The shape of our borders. Our border, the area across the border is extremely unfavourable. Today, as future members of the European Union and NATO, Croatia plays an important role in protecting its territory from cross-border crime, preventing unwanted immigration that is visible from day to day and protecting critical energy and transport infrastructures, which puts new tasks and new challenges before the security system other than the former ones. The next, peacetime army, thank God, from the level of doctrine to the level of the daily assignment has a new role to play. By Pacificing the environment, pacificism is a word that is often mentioned, we experienced during the Homeland War, but something else was done, so caution is the mother of safety. The Croatian military will play an ever-increasing role despite keeping its borders on peacekeeping missions. In this regard, there was a need for legislative compatibility with partners from Europe and the world, which is largely guaranteed by this Law. I'd like to pay a brief attention to the novelties of this law. The legislator defines Articles 13 and 17 the Information System Security Office. I will specifically refer to article 14. The CIS shall carry out tasks in the areas of security information systems and networks of state authorities, security accreditation of information systems and networks of state authorities, the management of cryptomaticals used in the exchange of classified data between the national authorities of the Republic of Croatia and foreign countries and organisations, as well as coordination and prevention and the removal of security problems of computer networks in state authorities. In today's time of globalisation, unfortunately Croatia will not bypass, but our system must be ready for anything. Articles 18 to 22 introduce the OTC Telecommunications Control Operational Technical Centre, these functions of the former POA, the POAs were raised and separated to the level of the state body, which is in line with Western European practice and I see that this is very positive. Article 20 of the proposed Law defines the Ministry of Defence's obligation to link the exposure of the communication system to OTC, so I don't know if it is possible for Mrs Bagic to put one specific time, one time limit to happen as soon as possible. I won't write the amendment, but I suggest you if that's possible. I will refer to article 42 of the proposed Law which I see is very important. Security checks and counterintelligence. Security check is carried out for officials and employees of security intelligence agencies, which is quite normal and security checks are carried out for persons who are admitted to Croatian citizenship and foreigners in the Republic of Croatia whose stay is important for the security of the state. I underline this, and it has to be checked in the future. All the countries of the world when they are giving citizenship to one person, it is a special act that arises from these obligations and duties and must not happen to us as it happened to us indefinitely that Croatian citizenships have those people who never deserve it. Today, too, Articles 36 and 110 are mentioned here. It was just quoted by those who had a chance at the time when they were in positions in the Croatian state by fellow Members of the Croatian Parliament today, former Interior Minister Anticevic former Justice Minister, counterpart Škara Ozbolt, recently the Minister of Justice pointed to what they could change in their time, so why in their time everything I said was happening from the quote and the means of public communication. The Turek affair, the Letica affair, so if you have objected to us about Mrs. Puglis we have been working under the law that passed the coalition power, so we are changing this law today and this law will contribute to the security system of the Republic of Croatia being at one level that is deserved by the state of Croatia and every citizen of Croatia. And with article 94 if I have time. I especially support him. The legislator clearly shows Article 94 where human resources can be located and in which way, in particular through paragraphs 2 and 3, defines the conditions which I particularly welcome, and Article 4 does not have the right to appeal if a new transfer is proposed. Gentlemen of the Security Intelligence Service of the Republic of Croatia and everywhere in the world must be aware of their responsibilities for their work. This responsibility is special and must not, they must in advance think about whether they will be able to accept it, because I am that the conditions are at the level, but that persons must be responsible, fulfil their duty at all times because being a soldier in the war is a Croatian police officer and a Croatian intelligence officer in peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67542	Thank you. Honorable representative of Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67543	Dear Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of my debate on the final proposal of the Security Intelligence System Act, I would also like to reiterate my conclusion from the first reading. In fact, I agree with the Proposer of this Act that the existing 2002 Security Services Act quotes: "Very content and fully regulates the area from security-intelligence affairs in structural methodological-functional terms and implements the most standard and human rights in the field of the application of the security-intelligence methodology and the exercise of supervision and fully implements the constitutional norm in cooperation between the President of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the direction of the work of the security services.", finished quote. That's how it looks in the scoreboard. Although this bill was written to take care of the national security of the Republic of Croatia, this could be the source of the endangerment of those rights and freedoms of citizens defined within the National Security Strategy that this Assembly adopted in 2002. I must say that I find it strange and somewhat absurd to make a provision in Article 27, paragraph 1, on the legitimacy of the official person in contact with the citizens. Namely, the described type of contact reminds me more of the work of a police officer, and much less of the work of a secret agent. It seems to me that this kind of activity really should be in the police domain, not the secret service. Where is the secrecy of his identity and his personal security? It is good that, at least partially, my remarks from the first reading on the adoption of a Regulation on the internal work of the Security Intelligence Agency have been adopted and that they agree that the head of the Office of the National Security Council is, although I still think it would be better if there were so far solutions by which these rules are adopted by the Government, with the consent of the President of the Republic, because this would give another lever to oversee the work of intelligence services. In Article 89(5), I quote: "In the proceedings against employees of security intelligence agencies for breach of official, or employment duties, the public has been disfellowshipped.", finished quote. The disciplinary courts leading these proceedings are composed of the employees of the agencies themselves without any independent member, for example a member of the Assembly Committee on National Security. I believe that the introduction of independent members into disciplinary courts would greatly contribute to the more transparent work of the security-intelligence system, the better decisions of these courts and the creation of citizens' trust in this system. The integration of POA and OA will result in an excessive concentration of power in the hands of one person. Too much power necessarily corrupts or, as the old people say, "the opportunity makes a thief." So this law creates this opportunity, but not adequate mechanisms to protect citizens in case they are threatened with rights and freedoms that will be able to prove that threat and ensure that the responsible suffer the consequences. The Civil Intelligence Council, instead of strengthening and obtaining greater powers, is limited by this law, and it comes down mainly to the postal office which will receive complaints from citizens and forward them to security-intelligence entities to which complaints are referred by a question whether it has compromised the security or the right of citizens. It's not hard to guess what kind of answer they're going to get. So what kind of service will self - admit to overseeing a person in a way that threatens her rights and freedoms and thus says that we are guilty. So what's the point of this council anyway? Posting with the directors of security-intelligence agencies. If this is his sole purpose, then I believe that the mere formality can then be completely abolished because the citizens of Croatia are capable of writing themselves an inquiry to the security and intelligence agency or the Operational Technical Centre for Telecommunications, so the same answer will be received within a much smaller period than 45 days prescribed by this law, which would save itself on double postage and the funds foreseen for the work of the council would remain in the budget. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, In view of the affairs of intelligence services in the past 15 years when they have been misused for daily political and private purposes, the Security Intelligence Council should be increased by part-time authority rather than by the postal service. Restricting the powers of the council in relation to the applicable law clearly speaks in which direction the proposing wants the development of the security and intelligence system to take place. In fact, the time between possible infringements of the rights of citizens and the possibility of direct supervision is too long because of administrative barriers and leaves room for the cover-up of the tracks that would indicate a violation of civil rights by SOA. The security-intelligence system has been too long away from the eyes of the public and precisely because of this lack of control and surveillance outside the system is prone to various malfeasances and violations of basic human rights and civil freedoms. It is enough to say that the public does not have any information on the funds spent by security intelligence agencies or where the funds go from the state budget. According to Article 115, I quote, "The financial and material business data are classified.". However, it is not secret, according to Article 114(1), that the funds for the work of the same persons are provided in the state budget. So it's no problem for Croatian citizens to finance the work of security intelligence agencies but if these same citizens want to have a better insight into their work then it's about big secrets, not to mention the survival of the state. In their first reading debate, some representatives of the ruling party said that the new law certainly opened up new opportunities and new dimensions in the work of security services, and we heard this today, but the question is whether it will really create preconditions for the security of every citizen and country as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67544	Thank you. State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice Snježana Bagic final review. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67545	Thank you, Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! I feel the need to thank you for your understanding of me as State Secretary, who is in charge of defending this law on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I do, however, think there are a lot of reasons why the Ministry of Justice, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as a pronoun, defends this law by respecting the reasons set out in this debate, and these are, above all, that, for professional reasons, we are also talking about the necessary extent of the restriction or prevention of human rights abuse, this is in that area which concerns the role of the court and judicial oversight. But it was also said that there should be no place for politics here. That's right. The law is always a law to be passed for the purposes of a particular section, in this case the security services and in that segment must be professional. The place of politics can be from what is repeatedly quoted here and spoken in Article 1 of this law, which is its purpose and purpose, and because of the high level of government officials responsible for it. When we protect independence, independence and the existence of the state, it can certainly be a difficult issue. But what is the purpose and purpose of this law that the Government is proposing and we hope that this House will adopt is to create a structure or service that will be responsible for doing this job in the first order of protecting the sovereignty of the state, integrity, preventing any attack and thus helping those services that need to be prevented in the modern world by any occurrence of terrorism, organised crime in these areas, or working with other countries in this area. And in that direction, the waist was doing this law. It was told by the intelligence community, and even an example was given to mention in the explanation for the first time in detail what remarks were not accepted. I still ask that it be credited to the Ministry of Justice for once and commending us in this House of Commons, but the fact is that the law was done by professionals. Therefore, both persons belonging primarily to the intelligence community and other persons who are required as professionals to contribute to making this law as good as possible, so as well as persons from other ministries such as the Ministry of the Interior, the inspection of the Ministry of Justice and all others who need to help it be as good as possible. It is clear that, then, in this segment and because of the content of the law, what is its contents, which is the part of the circle, the powers and relations of the security services proposed to adopt this law. It has also been reiterated in the debate on the final draft of the law, of course, that the interest that is being shown is that, however well formed, this system is properly controlled. It has also been said that I agree with this, of course, that whatever the system gives it a good legislative framework works as well as any other system with people, good, trained people doing this job. There's no secret said there. Well, there are secrets. I mean, it's a job that goes into secret no matter how much you liked it or didn't like it. However, that is why people who do this work must pass certain checks and be constantly checked in order to have that security, and so that those people who work really would not come into the situation at all to do abuses or to be in that direction in a timely manner. However, the surveillance of the entire system here is also worth the right attention because we are talking about that if we are already entering fundamental human rights to be at the least possible and adequately controlled. I will allow myself this freedom and tell myself about this speaker that, with all due respect, the role of the Civil Supervisory Council is a underestimated role of supervision by the Croatian Parliament, the Committee for the Interior and Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament. In addition to mentioning that no reports are submitted to the President of the Assembly or to the Chairman of the Committee, they can always ask for this because, under Articles 103 and 104 of the Security Services, the Croatian Assembly is conducted directly and through the Committee of the Croatian Parliament responsible for national security and which is listed here what it can ask for. So everything security intelligence does. There's no limit. By doing so, I certainly do not intend to diminish the role and importance of the Civil Watch Council. It is the attainment of the standard of democracy in the Croatian state. There's been a lot of talk here about this, about the reasons why you and... and our past. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The fact is, however, and I can't help but think that we wanted to and let's move on. Because other countries, some of whom today are members of the European Union, who have been in communism, have certainly and possibly had more negative experiences. And none of these countries have anything like our Civil Surveillance Council, or still the Security Services Supervisory Council. They have parliamentary oversight that is consistently carried out. Which is in some segments even narrower than our surveillance. However, I do not consider and plead in any way, nor would the Government suggest that this achieved standard and this role of the Civil Surveillance Council be abolished. Of course not. That's what needs to stay. Why don't we get a head start on this one time? However, the question that is really reaching is raised, are the powers of the Civil Watch Council? Here we were talking, there was an example here, and it seems to me that it was said by the distinguished representative Vesna Skare-Ozbolt that she submitted a play to this present, according to the current legal powers of the Security Intelligence Council and that they said they were not, that they were powerless. I can't judge the reasons and engage now in the reasons why they said it or didn't say it, but the fact is that here many times it has been said that this Council for, for the Security Services Supervisory Council needs and has this direct supervision. And if there was one, then he had to be able to make it. The second question is what I have said here for this speaker is one thing that I am behind and I want to repeat it, I do not allow myself to engage in debate and in controversy with parliamentary deputies, but the fact is that the applicable law has been saying that the Council is doing jobs, monitoring the legality of the work of security services on the basis of the programme adopted by the National Security Committee, on the basis of the requests of citizens, state bodies, and so on and saying that the monitoring carried out is reported by the applicant and that, in response to the request, the Council is limited solely to the observations set out in the request. We are talking about people who are representatives of civil society, who have stood out in the protection of human rights. Who, by their own evolution and definition, are by their definition not professional persons. Which even if we had, what we're saying now direct surveillance, that power probably wouldn't be able to evaluate it that way. And that's not where we talk about what security services want or not. It's permanent in every system as well as security to be as free as possible. We need to limit it but it is a matter of the right measures between this legality and the proportionate restriction of these freedoms. So we're talking here where's our measure? It's not easy for anyone. All the recommendations of the Council of Europe and the documents mentioned here speak about achieving this balance. But where is this right balance that's a big question, of course, that we need to discuss? There have been many amendments here and they have been submitted to the section relating to the Civil Supervisory Council and its future powers and the Government as a Proposer will, of course, take one more thorough look at it, but I have had and I felt the need to say, nevertheless and here, that the question that we are asking in front of the persons we are asking and appoint in the Civil Watch Council and where are really the limits of their powers? A similar question can be asked on the other issue, and it also concerns the restriction of constitutional freedoms and these are the measures of secret data collection of a secret measure. Of course, you and me both have some kind of covert measures, and that listening and tracking sounds scary. And that we all have a legitimate fear against it. The question is, of course, now that these measures fall within the limit of freedom. Maybe it's not a good argument to say that nobody else has, so we shouldn't have any, and the question is, are we really the ones who have the most... in our service. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, I guess our services aren't the worst that they would have such restrictions in that direction, or to any extent, the Supreme Court's oversight. You might as well ask different questions. If the judges of the Supreme Judge should, in view of their work, be the ones to approve and some measures, such as the location of the phone number users or the measure of permanent monitoring, observation and technical recording of persons in the open space and places. Here I must reiterate, stress that the measures in the open only refer to technical recording. They definitely do not refer to listening or monitoring measures of communication content whether they are in a closed space or in an open space. However, it is certainly something that needs to be corrected again in the interest of all of us in a thorough manner. And one more correction. When it comes to measures of secret collection which, both now and on the proposal, should be approved by the Supreme Court, they are generally only subject to the approval of the Supreme Court. The exception is only, except where it is necessary to do so without the approval of the Supreme Court but in that case, the Supreme Court must be informed immediately. So it is immediately notified but the Supreme Court judge is due to decide on this within 24 hours. Of course, it is necessary to be very careful and to allow for control so that such measures are not misused. And I owe you an answer that's been repeated here many times. Have we, as Government, consulted on the experience of the organisation of the service and on what the Council of Europe's recommendations require? As far as the organization of experience is concerned, they're different. Not only do countries, the newer members of the European Union, but also countries such as Spain, Belgium, the Netherlands have a united anti-intelligence, intelligence agencies coming out of their needs and reasons, including financial, of course, the personnel who are telling them to do so. Indeed, this law is, I can responsibly confirm this in line with EU and NATO requirements, perhaps even moving on, for example, with regard to this Council because the recommendations of the Council of Europe parliamentary assembly are not so strict. Perhaps it is even good for us that we are stricter to ourselves than what developed democracy countries are asking for because they say that, for example, we need to limit the number of services. So what we've been discussing now is how many services there are, how many of them should be said to be as few as possible in terms of legislative control then control of the executive authority and other controls. They're kind of talking about that... the framework must be such as to allow a transparent framework for the operation of those services. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That the executive power must carry out ex post so after the control of the activities of intelligence services, it will also oblige them to submit a detailed report of their work that we have prescribed under this law. As for other bodies, for example, the Ombudsman is referring to external, or control of the security and individual cases carried out afterwards, starting from one case to another. As to whether haste is necessary or not, any system that is now surrounded and which seeks to be even better, the law provides him with an even better work in this regard is a haste. Of course, we can be in a hurry as part of the accession process and in the process of harmonising with EU standards and NATO standards. But there's no deadline and there's no limit to the fact that the law has to be passed tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. Our real goal is for the law to be as good as possible and to be passed, of course, as soon as possible. We hope that, after considering the amendments, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will indeed pass the law to enable us to achieve the desired goal, and this is a successful and effective security service to the satisfaction of citizens in getting into their constitutional rights as little as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67546	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll continue tomorrow with the bill of hospitality. And probably with that and finish tomorrow's debate. Because there are so many registered and so many clubs that it might be another, maybe something, and at 15 o'clock, then a vote. And the third one's luck. Amendments and additions to the Penal Code and the strategy on health, health development, on the Law on Sports, it has as many as 95 amendments, 97, on preventing riots in the Assembly, it will go this is a minor amendment, that is, it will go on, on the theatre. What mayors? ... And they. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So where's the other law? Where's the other law? ... There's no hurry. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Hurry up slowly. We can vote early, we can. Five to three. ... The session was interrupted at 18.58 hours. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We are now going to the Final Proposal of the Law on the Security and Intelligence System of the Republic of Croatia. The debate on the text of the law is over. We have amendments, a table of amendments. State Secretary of the Justice Department. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67548	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67549	It's a HNS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67550	The government doesn't accept. Namely, the President of the Republic and of the Government may order the Office of the National Security and Implementation and Control Council to carry out their decisions concerning service operations, strategic analysis and the like. Therefore, it is about supervision at the executive level while the Parliament is doing, as it should, parliamentary supervision of compliance with the laws or possible abuses. It is therefore logical to receive reports from the Office of the National Security Council at its request.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67551	The club of representatives of the CNS respected representative Srecko Ferenčak.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67552	Well, I have to... Madam Secretary of State. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because it's exactly the opposite. We wanted to strengthen parliamentary oversight with this amendment demanding that the annual reports of the secret services be given both by the President of the Parliament and by the chairman of the National Security Committee. And by refusing this amendment, you're doing exactly the opposite. Therefore, I believe that you are undermining parliamentary oversight of the secret services and requesting a vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67553	President of the Club of Representatives Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67554	Mr. President, on the basis of Article 238, I propose point 6 to... much because there is a proposal for many amendments and time is rather limited to voting on amendments by raising hands. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67555	... Good enough was convincing and... All right, who's for Amendment 1. The HNS rep club? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. The SDP MP's club, the 2nd Amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67556	The government doesn't accept. It actually refers to erasing provisions relating to the establishment of an information security office. This law fully regulates all services that are in the security and intelligence system, so there should be a provision relating to the establishment of an office and its basic jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67557	SDP club, Shime Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67558	Thank you very much. It's a little weird that one law prescribes something that doesn't exist yet. Well, you can't do one office in three articles. So I'd like to ask the vote because it doesn't make any sense to mention something and the law hasn't come to the information security procedure yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67559	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. The third amendment of the HSS Club is identical to this one, so we won't vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67560	That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67561	4. The HSS counseling club?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67562	Mr. President, he refers to the OTC or operational technical centre. The government does not accept it because it would introduce a new service with large concentrated framework powers in the area of listening. And we must say that the amendment is indeed contrary to the EU's recommendations on the mixing of military and civil affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67563	The HSS Club, the esteemed representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67564	Thank you very much. It is not contrary to European standards. It may be contrary to the position of the applicant. That's right. What matters to us in a whole series of these amendments that I don't explain to everyone after which the OTC center is concerned is as follows: whether the amendments that are given predict that the deadline in which the OTC centre should be formed and activated should be within a certain period of one year. For reasons that we should not unnecessarily report to some articles, I would ask you to make that clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67565	Yeah, now...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67566	Easy, you won't do anything... Who's in favour of this amendment? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He didn't get the necessary majority because he doesn't have... Club, 5. The HSS counseling club?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67567	He won't accept it, he won't accept it. It's actually about connecting OTC and CIS and creating a new agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67568	The 5th Amendment of the House of Representatives Club of the HSS has been withdrawn. 6th and the same club?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67569	The same is not accepted because all the reasons are related to the previous ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67570	Could we please a more cheerful woman of 'Winsdorn'? Does it take a little pause for these laugh attacks to ease? The House of Representatives Club of the Sixth Amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67571	The same is not accepted. They're actually the same reasons. It refers to the OTC and its position.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67572	Amendment 6 withdrawn. Seventh Amendment of the same club?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67573	The seventh amendment, Mr. President, also refers to the position of the OTC and its action.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67574	Retracted. The 8th Amendment of the Club of the Same?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67575	The same, Mr. President. He's referring to the director's position.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67576	What about the 8th amendment? Retracted. The 9th of the same HSS Club?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67577	Mr. President, it seems to me that this amendment applies to the position of the OTC, too, so I expect it to be withdrawn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67578	Retracted. Ten. The HNS rep club?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67579	Mr. President also refers to the position of the Director and the position of the OTC and the operation of those services and is therefore not accepted by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67580	The 10th Amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67581	The 10th Amendment is the Club of Representatives of the CNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67582	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Here you go. Dear Representative Happy Ferenchuck.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67583	Our amendment speaks of the fact that in Article 27, secret agents have the right to legitimize themselves to citizens and lead them to an informed conversation. The intensity of this amendment is that the official is obliged to tell the citizen that he is not obliged to go to this conversation because the citizen does not necessarily need to know all the laws. And I don't see any reason why this secret agent, I don't know how secret it is if he's already legitimizing a citizen doesn't tell a citizen he doesn't have to go, he doesn't necessarily have to attend an informed conversation. First it would be professional and at least it would be polite... Your hand. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is therefore very regrettable that you did not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67584	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 11. A SDP counseling club?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67585	It's unacceptable. Namely, the applicant considers that the official card and badge are sufficient guarantees for the exercise of the right to access the registers from... And that you shouldn't even have a written warrant. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67586	Honorable representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67587	Thank you very much. I don't know if you've read a daily newspaper today. You have a letter from a professor where a person came in with an intelligence badge and went through his archives. In Croatia, you have 1,000 or so intelligence. Imagine the probability that out of those 1,000, someone abuses their position. I think this would be a minimum if it weren't for the principal to write a warrant, give it to some intelligence officer, and get that warrant to go where it's supposed to go. In some database. I'd like to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67588	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 12. The HSS counseling club?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67589	Mr. President and the distinguished ladies and gentlemen of Parliament are not accepted because he again refers to the formation of this new service that would be connected... agencies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67590	Amendment 12 has been withdrawn. Amendment 13. A SDP counseling club?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67591	13th Amendment, Mr. President of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, the Proposer accepts in part. Namely, no, for a reason, no. Mr. President, this amendment is not accepted because its acceptance would lead to irrevocable difficulties in the work of agencies especially in cases of kidnapping. Is there anything else I can do? Mr. President, if you allow this amendment to the SDP and the following amendments...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67592	You can't hear me, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67593	If you permit, in addition to this amendment, the SDP Representatives Club, which applies to Article 36a and to any other amendment from other representatives clubs. These are amendments 14. HSS Representatives' Club, Amendment 15. HSLS representative club, Amendment 16. HSS Representatives' Club, Amendment 17. Advocacy Club of the SDP, Amendment 18. HSLS representative club, Amendment 19. SDSS Representatives' Club, Amendment 20. SDP Representatives' Club and Amendment 21. It's an HSS rep club. Finally, this amendment 21 all of these amendments relate to similar provisions of the law, the provisions of the law of the Final Proposal for a Security Intelligence System Act, that the provisions of Articles 33 to 36 relating to secret measures. In order to reach consensus in some ways and reconcile these different proposals, and they are going towards making one difference now and strengthening further in certain situations where a warrant for listening is to be given by the President of the Supreme Court, the Government is proposing, starting from these amendments in their entirety and from what they suggest to achieve the purpose of what I am about to say, and that it is clearly and loudly prescribed that the covert monitoring, observation and photorecording in the open is something that does not require permission, the Supreme Court's order, for this is a sufficient task of the Director. However, even in cases where it is secretly, where it is a secret monitoring, observation and photo shoot in an open-air manner, that is, where technical recording of communication content needs to be carried out in such situations by the Supreme Court. We believe that this will achieve a reasonablely desired measure of restricting constitutional rights on the one hand and controlling secret services by the Supreme Court. Now, if this were acceptable, I would read what would now be read, then the provisions of Article 33 and some of the following provisions must be amended in order to implement all these points of the law. This would mean that what I have now tried to explain in a descriptive manner in order to be explained in Article 33(4). The final proposal was also amended and read: "Secret monitoring, observation and photo recording of persons in the open space and public places.". In the same article in paragraph 3 above point 4, a new point would be added: "Technical recording of the content of telecommunications persons in open spaces and public places.". In this respect, paragraph 3 of the current point 5 would become point 6. Such a procedure in Article 33 would require a change in Article 36, meaning that Article 36 is complemented by the wording "point" adding a decimal, the letter "i" being deleted and the wording "point 3" is deleted. the following is added: "and point 5.". We refer to Article 33. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed,", so you would add point 6. o... Director of Security Intelligence agencies by written and reasoned order within the prescribed section. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It would also change and vote in Article 38(2) on how I will now read, on the published findings of the Director of Security Intelligence.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67594	It's okay if there's a little peace yet!?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67595	The Directors of the Security Intelligence Agency shall, once a month, notify the Office of the National Security Council and report on the measure of Article 33(3), paragraph 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67596	I'm a colleague of Luchin's. Here you go. Please, peace. Please, peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67597	I'm supposed to be looking for something right now. But I didn't understand anything. The whole story is next, this is gonna be a precedent. I don't think the Parliament should let us accept the amendments to the Government in oral form. I think that a business provision is actually a provision that there is an amendment that the amendment must be written and actually read. A team before this relates to the measures of secret data collection. So the possibility of violating basic human rights. It would be good, I don't know why the government, we had time, why didn't the government write and give us this? We can't make a statement about this. Unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67598	I'm interrupting the vote. We will not vote on this amendment or this law. I'm interrupting the session. I'm closing the session. SESSION FINISHED IN 17.18 HOURS Now we're going to vote on the debated agenda points. First is the Final Proposal for a Law on the Security and Intelligence System of the Republic of Croatia. Second reading. Resumption of the vote. The special table is divided by amendments. We, as you know, voted until the 12th Amendment of the Clubs of Representatives, and then there was a situation that the Government proposed oral amendments, so the vote was suspended. Meanwhile, this vote is now continuing. In the meantime, the government has submitted amendments after the deadline, so we should first vote whether or not we will take into account these amendments to the Government that have been adopted after the deadline. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 98 for, six abstentions and one against. So we'll vote and discuss these amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67601	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The amendment of the first Government of the Republic of Croatia makes it clear that the order of the Supreme Court is always necessary when the change, secret monitoring and observation are linked and the sound recording of the content of telecommunications. So, always and when this measure of content of communication, the talks take place in open spaces and public places.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67602	I'm opening a debate. Representative clubs can only argue. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the amendment of one government. We can vote. The result? 106 for, 4 abstentions, the amendment got the required majority. Amendment two.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67603	Mr. President, he is a nomotechnical harmonisation due to the changes proposed in the amendment one.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67604	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Please vote. The result? Adopted with 100 for and one abstention. Amendment three.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67605	The same nomotechnical harmonisation due to changes in the amendment one.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67606	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. The vote. Amendment one. Let's get on with it. The result? 102 for, 3 abstentions. Amendment 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67607	Mr. President, he refers to the powers and part of the Civil Intelligence Council. As can be seen in the written text, the provisions relating to the term of the composition, the cleavage and its powers have been thoroughly amended. What's important to say is that... The amendments make it clear to me that this council, as well as the Office of the National Security Council and the competent parliamentary committee, can directly supervise the legality of the work of these services. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67608	I'm opening a crack. HSP representative club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67609	Your Honor, Mr. President. On behalf of the HSP Club, we are pleased that the Government has accepted our amendment with its amendment and that the Civil Intelligence Council will now be a council with civil oversight and not as planned to be the city express system. Therefore, it is with this first amendment an important thing and the HSP Club will vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67610	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 4. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 105 votes for, 2 abstentions. Amendment adopted. And finally Amendment 5 more.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67611	The Fifth Amendment is related to Amendment Four and applies to this Civil Watch Council as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67612	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. I'm putting amendments to the fifth vote. We can vote. The result? With 97 votes for, 3 abstentions, the proposed amendment. Now let's get on the plate. Amendment 13. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67614	The government, Mr. President, does not accept. It proposes that all measures of secret collection can be returned and implemented only by order of the Supreme Court. The government doesn't think that it's necessary and necessary in all measures and they don't all represent... The fundamental human rights and the government has already expanded and explained, in fact, which, therefore, the purchase refers to... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Court. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67615	Amendment withdrawn. Thank you. The 14th Amendment of the Association of Representatives of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67616	It shall not be accepted for the same reasons as Amendment 13. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67617	Amendment withdrawn fourteen. Amendment 15. also to the Club of Representatives, i.e. the Club of Representatives of HSLS.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67618	No, I don't. The government doesn't accept it. Namely, it refers to the measure of the secret purchase of documents which should be declared the same and implemented only on the order of the Supreme Court. The government has already explained why it does not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67619	The Honorable Representative of the Czech Republic. Here you go. Retracted what? The vote. Okay. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? Six for, ten abstentions, 80 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 16. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67620	The government doesn't accept. Namely, a written order from the Supreme Court for the implementation of a secret data collection measure can only be carried out according to the written proposal of the director of a particular security intelligence agency and then delivered to him [[/Intruder: We're pulling.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67621	Amendment withdrawn 16. 17. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67622	The government doesn't accept. In fact, the Government considers that this may be about a simple interpretation of the domestic provision of Article 36(4). For example, measures of secret data collection, i.e. recording the content of the conversations, can be carried out according to a natural person when it is located in a legal person and uses the phone connection of that legal person. So if she's in that person then it's impossible to carry out a secret measure if she's not prescribed... And according to the legal person. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67623	Representative Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67624	So, I'd like a vote. The explanation is simple. This is nowhere in the law what Mrs Bagic's colleague now said does not stand. So the question is always remains open, whether legal persons, whether a single firm, as an institution, can be put whole into action. So, can anyone determine that a company is listed as a whole. Let's say for the Croatian Parliament, can someone bring in a measure to list mail for the entire Croatian Parliament. You can't see it from this law, so I think we should vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67625	Please vote. Let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 35 for, 3 abstentions, 66 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 18. It's an HSLS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67626	It's unacceptable. He refers to the measures of secret collection, and the same reasoning as before with these amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67627	Representative Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67628	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67629	Retracted. 19. SDSS counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67630	No, Mr. President. It's the same as the previous HSLS representative club. [[/Intruder: We're pulling.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67631	Retracted. Thank you. 20. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67632	It's unacceptable. It's related to these covert data collection measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67633	Amendment withdrawn. Thank you. 21. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67634	No, I don't. For the same reasons as the previous amendment number 20 [[/Intruder: We're pulling.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67635	Retracted. Thank you. 22. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67636	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67637	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. 23. SDSS counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67638	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67639	Sustained. It becomes an integral part of the law. 24th of the same Club of Representatives of the SDSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67640	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67641	Sustained. It's part of the law. 25. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67642	It's unacceptable. Namely, it is the operational reports of the security intelligence agencies. And such a solution is not even known in the practice of other countries. In addition, the committee responsible, the Parliamentary Committee on Internal Policy and National Security has the powers already prescribed, it has every opportunity to request reports and... Under Article 104 of the Law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67643	For a simple reason. We believe that the board could fulfil its legal powers, which are normally prescribed between the other and this law, which is the supervision of the work of secret services. We think they should be users of all the operational data the Secret Service is accessing. Or at least those reports that are regularly sent to all other users. So I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67644	Please vote. Let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 36 for, 1 abstention, 63 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 26. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67645	It's unacceptable. Mr. President, it proposes eradicating the provision by which strategic electronic reconnaissance is prescribed, implementing the Central Electronic Staff of the Armed Forces. It is related to the earlier amendments of this club of representatives and to the proposal concerning... secret monitoring of telecommunications previously proposed by the government as a proponent refused in the first course of the vote [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[/Intruder: We're pulling.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67646	Thank you. Amendment 26 withdrawn. 27. A representative club with the same HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67647	For the same reason he refers to, excuse me, I apologize. The 27th Amendment is not accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67648	He's pulled the same thing already. Right? Okay. 28th same club of representatives of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67649	The government doesn't accept it. He's referring to the same Agency for Secret Telecommunications Oversight.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67650	Pulled the same thing on the 28th amendment. 29. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67651	The government accepts this amendment in part. In fact, it does not accept the amendment in the section that the word "employees" is changed by the word "obligor and official person", since the intensity was that the word "employees" includes all employees. And it's acceptable... The provisions on non-political activity shall also apply to other security-intelligence bodies. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67652	And now how would you understand when there was noise? Be nice and repeat. Please, colleagues and colleagues, give yourself a minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67653	I'll do it again. The Government of Amendment 29 accepts part of it. It does not accept it in the section that the word "employees" is changed from the word "obligor and official" because it was the intensity that all employees, all employees, embraced by this activity, that is to say, to prohibit them. But it is accepted that part of the provision applies to political activities to other security-intelligence bodies as well. So behind the word "age" is added the decimal point and the words "and the other bodies of the security-intelligence system".
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67654	I'm a colleague of Luchin's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67655	If I can get an explanation. Here, I don't understand it. Does that mean that, say, the director of some of the agencies could be a member of the party? From this explanation of yours, I didn't realize it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67656	Well, we can't explain that. Unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67657	Okay. I'd like a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67658	On the part not accepted, the part accepts the amendment and becomes an integral part of the law. The part not accepted should be voted on. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 31 for, 2 abstentions, 65 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 31. Advocacy club, excuse me, 30. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67659	The government doesn't accept. In fact, against this solution, the truth is not allowed to appeal but there can be an administrative dispute and that is enough legal protection for such cases. [[/Intruder: We're pulling.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67660	Amendment withdrawn 30. 31. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67661	The government doesn't accept it. We consider the government as a proposing that the position of officials is not compromised by this, nor are their rights reduced by the proposed provision. Namely, they still cannot reach their agreement more than 50 kilometers, but certain persons who have the right to access specific classified information must receive a certificate. If that person does not pass through the verification and does not receive a certificate, they must be moved elsewhere, including other security-intelligence services. So it's to their advantage, not to the harm.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67662	Amendment withdrawn. Thank you. 31. It's an HSS rep club. Excuse me, 32.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67663	Thirty-two. The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67664	It becomes an integral, HSLS club, an integral part of the law. 33. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67665	The government doesn't accept. This is about overseeing the legality of the work of security intelligence agencies. Indeed, it is not necessary to include in this article a provision which will determine that the Croatian Parliament may seek, for this purpose, the supervision of the Presidents of the Republic and the Prime Minister of the National Security Report.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67666	Comrade Lucin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67667	Thank you very much. Since this provision is prescribed from the applicable law and it does not have any other intensity but to show that the Croatian Parliament shares equality and equal with the president, so I would like to ask the representatives of the executive authority for a simple reason, because we hold that this is actually a matter of the dignity of this Assembly and in this case, when it comes to the position and in the sphere of national security.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67668	Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 38 for, 4 abstentions, 59 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 34. HNS's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67669	Mr. President, the government does not accept this amendment. In this law, the final proposal has already proposed that the president of the National Security Assembly Committee be of the order of the opposition. Therefore, with this amendment, it now proposes that it be not only the president to be of the opposition but most of them to be the opposition MPs and the president to be of the most representative opposition party. We consider it truly in line with democratic principles not necessary and should not... This way, the composition of this parliamentary committee, it will be determined in accordance with Rules of Procedure and Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67670	Representative Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67671	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Secretary of State, you have now ruined our joy, first that part you have accepted in your amendments by refusing this amendment. Given that the proposal is completely clear and the desire for the opposition to have... I demand a vote on this amendment to this important committee. [[/The speaker's off, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67672	Please vote. Let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 30 for five abstentions, 61 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 35. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67673	The government doesn't accept. Namely, the government feels that it really isn't... The National Security Council shall report to the public on the results of the surveillance of the work of the service, especially as this Office of the National Security Council reports to the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the President of the Parliament, the President of the Assembly Committee on National Security, and if... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the existence of a criminal act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67674	I'd ask a representative not to read the paper while it's being voted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67675	This is the obligation of those institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67676	SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67677	Is it the 35th Amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67678	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67679	All right. I'd like to ask the vote simply, you can't hear it, you can't actually hear at all what the amendment is about and where the content is concerned. Given that the Parliamentary Committee on Internal Policy and National Security is in charge of parliamentary oversight, I think it is a matter of reason that with the presidents mentioned here about any irregularities, violations of the Constitution and the law of the report and the chairman of the Committee at the very least, because then its supervisory function does not actually occur in any way, and if certain elements of criminal prosecution are found to be there, then it would either be a violation of the Constitution and the law, or should therefore be notified by a state attorney. I'd like a vote, then.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67680	Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? 33 for, 2 abstentions, 64 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 36. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67681	The government doesn't accept. This amendment... Civil surveillance and at least according to the government's assessment has already been consummated in all amendments to the government... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67682	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67683	Amendment withdrawn. 37th Representative Pera Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67684	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67685	Retracted. Thank you. 38. HNS's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67686	The government doesn't accept, or evaluates that... Governments of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67687	Retracted. Thank you. 39. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67688	Same as... /Intruder: Pulling./ [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67689	Retracted. 40. It's an HSLS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67690	Also, Mr. President, we believe that it is consummated by the amendment of the Republic of Croatia [[Intruder: Pulling.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67691	Retracted. Thank you. 41. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67692	Same argument, Mr. President, same reason. [[Intruder: Pulling.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67693	Retracted. Thank you. 42. Government, it's an integral part of the law. 43. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67694	No, I mean... /Intruder: Pulling./ [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67695	Retracted. 44. SDP representative club
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67696	The government doesn't accept. This amendment applies... [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67697	Please vote. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 30 for, 2 abstentions, 66 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 45. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67698	The government does not accept, namely it feels necessary to remain the institution to establish and participate in... funds and equipment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67699	Why do we hold that this amendment should be adopted for a simple reason because there is a certain suspicion of such a solution to this article so that someone might decide otherwise to treat the documents in a way that only we could be treated in connection with a part of the Secret Service? Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67700	The vote. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 29 for, 6 abstentions, 63 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 46. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67701	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67702	It becomes an integral part of the law. 47. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67703	The government doesn't accept. In fact, the government believes that both the opposition and the chairman of the Committee on National Security from the lines of the opposition should be appointed after.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67704	A little louder, and you're a little quieter.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67705	I'll get close, Mr. President. Namely, the 47th Amendment is not accepted by the Government of the Republic. The Government considers that the chairman of the Committee on National Policy and Internal Security should also be appointed as the opposition president as well as the adoption of this text of the law after the next parliamentary elections, after the results are known and in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure on the work of the parliamentary bodies are appointed by the presidents and members of those bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67706	Representative Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67707	Thank you very much. I would ask the vote for a simple reason because it would be more logical for me if the government had actually accepted the proposal if this Article 122 were not put into law at all because it seems to me that it is also nomotechnical because I do not know to what extent the legislative practice knows this form of part of the law which has a delay in its application, so I would ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67708	Let's go vote. Let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 32 for, 3 abstentions, 65 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 48. HNS's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67709	The government doesn't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67710	It was consummated by the vote of the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67711	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67712	And 49.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67713	Same as the last two.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-08-0.u67714	It was also consumed by the previous vote. So we voted on the amendments. Thank you very much, Secretary of State. I am now voting on the final draft law to pass the law. The law requires a majority of all MPs' votes, at least 77 votes. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that with 88 votes for, 19 abstentions and 2 against the Law on the Security and Intelligence System of the Republic of Croatia is in the text as proposed by the Government together with the amendments adopted. We're going to the next vote.
