ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66268	And we move to the agenda point - - The report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality in 2005 in accordance with Article 21. The Law on Gender Equality has been submitted to that report. You received the material by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Gender Equality, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. You received reports at the session, the Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Would the applicant like to give an additional introductory explanation? He does. Here you go. Ms. Attorney General for Gender Equality Gordana Lukač Koritnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66269	Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs, distinguished MPs. The report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality for 2005 is the third regular annual report submitted to the Croatian Assembly and shows the activities of the Ombudsman for gender equality in monitoring the implementation of both the Law on Gender Equality and other rules concerning gender equality. At the same time, I would point out, however, that there have also been positive developments in the implementation of these laws, which is important among other things and because of the fact that this area is the subject of negotiations with the European Commission in two chapters. Social policy and employment and justice and fundamental human rights. In this regard, I would firstly like to point out the implementation of the provisions on the collection of statistics by sex because these data, apart from being an alphabet of European integration, represent one of the important indicators of the application of regulations and the basis for monitoring progress in the implementation of gender equality policy. In accordance with the provisions of Article 17 of the Treaty on The law all statistics and information collected must be shown by sex, and the State Statistics Office is doing so today. Furthermore, developments in the fight against domestic violence have been seen after a turning point in the fight was adopted in 2003. A law on protection against domestic violence. In 2005, police also worked very intensively in this area despite the lack of resources and personnel, and how interventions, the submission of criminal charges, along with proposals for different safeguards, the education of their employees and employees, and in cases of observed failures to be reported by the Advocate General and the Discipline Procedures. In 2005, the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity followed the implementation of a national strategy to protect against domestic violence, particularly coordinating the work on a very important document on the cooperation of all factors acting in the field of domestic violence, a protocol on the handling of cases of domestic violence whose effects will be evaluated this year, but they are already obvious, but also on amendments to the Law on Protection against Family Violence and Criminal Law. In addition, women with disabilities had education in relation to domestic violence, which I find particularly important because it is the most difficult forms of violation of the right to life without violence. With regard to the obligation to adopt action plans by state authorities, legal persons with public authority and legal persons in the bulk of ownership of the state or units of local and regional (regional) self-government in 2005, the number of these plans was significantly increased and 22 of the 24 planned by the commercial companies in the bulk of the City of Zagreb were adopted by the plans. I consider these plans an important way to implement gender-aware policies and foundations and to increase employment, education and progress of sub-represented sex in these bodies and legal persons. In 2005, the process of appointment of co-ordinators and co-ordinators for gender equality was also completed in all the ministries provided for by the Law on Gender Equality, as well as advertising the need for jobs to a significantly greater extent is implemented in accordance with the law. As regards the general indicators shown in the report, it should be pointed out that the number and individual complaints increased by almost 100%. There are complaints from all parts of the Republic of Croatia, but also the most distant part from Zagreb, which indicates that again as it was done in 2004 it is necessary to activate the lawyer's activity in all counties. Most of the complaints were related to the field of labour and employment and family violence. As far as the labour market situation is concerned, the position of especially women on the labour market is also seen from the conclusions of this report that absolutely the biggest problem whose resolution exceeds the possibilities and actually powers of the Advocate General. However, much uncertainty regarding job retention requires both government and trade unions and employers. It is not realistic to expect employees to seek protection in cases of violations of labour rights, including protection against sexual harassment at work in conditions where a huge number of employees are employed at a specified time, and especially because no law on free legal aid has been adopted yet. That is why, in 2005 as an office, we encouraged the application of the Law on Gender Equality, which I think is also seen from the report and we have achieved significant cooperation between ourselves and the women's section of the Alliance of Independent Unions in the area of awareness of the existence of rights and the intended protection related to gender-based harassment. I would like to remind you that the Labour Act knows discrimination and harassment not only on the basis of sex but also on all other grounds from religious membership to race, education, etc. No one in my knowledge has so far investigated whether people in the workplaces are discriminated against or harassed by any other basis than we did this research last year. The study was on a relatively large sample of the responses received but by union logistics, the questionnaire was delivered to 20,000 jobs which, in fact, if not responsible, was one way of informing. We believe that this was extremely important and that it should continue in that direction. In this regard, I remind you that the economic development of the state must also be based on gender equality and that there is indeed a need for more determined intervention of the state as well as society as a whole. All data point to a poor position of women on the labour market from a share in unemployment that is almost stabilised at 60% on lower sex harassment and poorer progress. However, what we are expected to have research on whether there is a gender pay gap for equal work and work of equal value, we do not have such research. As a result, we have no complaints relevant from that aspect one last year, one in 2004. Therefore, although all other indicators point to a lower position of women on the labour market, this aspect is not visible from available analyses. In order to achieve an improved position of women and women in the labour market and in all other areas, therefore, the gender equality that is constitutional and which has led to the adoption of the Law on Gender Equality is necessary for women to participate equally in political decision-making, including the most important analysis conducted by our office regarding the analysis of local elections and not only the results but the entire election process, starting with the candidacy. So, women's participation politically is after the state of the labour market I mean the biggest problem that I see as an obstacle to the implementation of outlined goals and gender equality policies. The report detailed the results, however, almost no progress at all levels. It is simply not respected either the Law on Gender Equality or the Law electoral in this direction, and in that sense responsibility lies primarily on political parties. In that sense, we conducted another brief analysis we wanted to carry out, asked the political parties if they had come up with plans that they had to do with the Law on Gender Equality. Although the deadline has not yet passed the answers are in a negligible number, only three parties responded in 2005, of which only one parliamentary and pensioners. So we're constantly talking about the need for women to actually get their place when it comes to economic power and political power, and on these two most important pillars where they should actually work, we actually have the weakest results obviously. The third thing I want to point out. In order for all these objectives to be achieved, I think we should have a much more active education policy, and therefore one part of the report is dedicated to our analysis of the work of the ministry of sound and education-related policies. In the long term, we cannot expect progress in this direction unless something really moves in the field of education, meaning one systematic education on human rights, including gender equality. Following the application of international documents that bind us and our national gender equality policies, which were in force until 2005, the report shows that we also dealt with the issues of minority women and related to leaving school and early pregnancy because these two things and international regulations are considered a serious violation of the rights of girls. The analysis's here. On the other hand, on this trail, we tried to shed light on the status of women living in rural areas, and unfortunately we discovered that there was virtually no data in that area, declared and adopted policies, nothing new that would possibly improve women's status in those environments from potential to education and beyond. I must warn that in the negotiations, the area of agriculture is very important and that one of the strategic interests of the European Union is also listed in these policies by women in rural areas. I hope that what we have pointed out will lead to this, as did the Ombudsman's report last year, that much more work is done in the position of women of Roma women than was previously done so that they are somehow drawn from this story of the situation of Roma because they have specific needs and at least double discrimination. We also analyzed the media's behavior. That's given in the report. There is a dispute between their understanding that it is sufficient for them to implement this policy in substance from the prosecutor's understanding that they should bring it into internal acts and in this way actually apply the law. We had one, only one, otherwise we try not to work through round tables but in another way proactively, the project is a gender perspective in public and official communication because we have concluded that what is in the media is present and that it is consistently used by the male and female deadlines in all actually documents of the national classification of occupation and it is, in fact, the fact that this uncertified standard is not actually seen in these documents. This is short of wanting to add a report that is very extensive and some things are unfortunately out of the summary and some areas that we have covered do not see at all, such as, for example, that we have also analysed in collaboration with the Union a table of rules on the protection of the dignity of workers and workers because these rules are if they are a well-designed way to protect the rights. And on the contrary, unless they're actually the ones that are looking for protection are disabled in that search. I thank you and suggest that the report be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66270	Thank you very much to the Attorney General for Gender Equality, Mrs. Koritnik. Do the Committee's representatives want to take it? Yeah. Okay, on behalf of the Committee on Gender Equality, Mrs. Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66271	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Vice President, the esteemed attorney. The Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament held at the 35th session of 9 May 2006 discussed the report on the work of the Advocate General for Gender Equality for 2005 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Ombudsman for Gender Equality of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 31 March 2006. The Committee discussed that report in accordance with Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In the opening presentation of the Advocate General for Gender Equality, the Committee met the activities undertaken to monitor and implement the Law on Gender Equality of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination of Women and Other Regulations which legally elaborated the Constitutional Principle on Gender Equality and related to the 2005 Reportable Period. The area of activity of the Ombudsman concerned the settlement of cases; discrimination in the field of employment and labour, discrimination in the field of education, discrimination against domestic violence and parental care. Monitoring the application of the Law on Gender Equality in State Authorities and bodies with public authority, in units of local and regional, regional self-government. Monitoring the application of the Law to other legal and physical persons, monitoring of media content and paid ads and monitoring of compliance with the Law of the prescribed obligations for political parties. In the debate, members and members of the Committee supported the 2005 Ombudsman's report on gender equality. For the first time this year, the report points to the position of women in rural areas. It has been warned that their position, living conditions, health care, etc. do not have enough relevant data. For the first time, the report also discusses women Roma women and particularly points out the issue of health care and especially the violence they are exposed to in the environments, families where they live. The debate noted that there were positive developments in the work of the competent state authorities in the handling of domestic violence cases. It has been estimated that the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity has contributed to the more effective treatment of all competent authorities in this area by adopting a Protocol on Family Violence. However, when it comes to judicial authorities, there are still problems from slowness to mild penalties, or reduction of penalties already imposed. According to the structure of the case received and resolved by the Advocate's Office, the most numerous cases relating to non-compliance with the provision of Article 11. The law on gender equality indicates that the law is not sufficiently known. With this in mind, it has been pointed out that there is still insufficient work to meet the highest public on the Law but also on the Office itself. Although there were much more articles in the media last year on the different aspects of gender equality issues in Croatia. The lack of knowledge of the Law on Gender Equality, the legal entities to which the Law relates also led to the absence of the adoption of action plans that were to be adopted by the end of July 2004 and, in the 2005 report period, the truth, to a slightly smaller extent than the previous year, the Ombudsman for gender equality encouraged the application of the Law in the section concerning the adoption of action plans. The Committee is familiar with the results of the research carried out in the co-operation of the Ombudsman with the women section of the Association of Independent Unions of Croatia. Research was about protecting women from unwanted behavior in the workplace. The results of the research are alarming. The survey was conducted on a sample of 1598 women and 75% of them women were directly or indirectly exposed to harassment at work. Furthermore, in the opinion of the Committee members, it also concerns the fact that almost 47% of respondents are not familiar with the rights arising from the Law on Gender Equality and the Labour Act, and in this direction action needs to be strengthened. The number of complaints by the attorney's office in 2005 has increased compared to 2004. In total, 174 complaints were made by individuals, groups and institutions, and they pointed to violations of the most labour and employment rights and domestic violence. In most cases, VSS and VHS women are employed. In particular, the debate stressed that problems in the employment and position of women in the labour market especially those over 45 years of life that are difficult to find new employment should be tackled as a priority. The share of unemployed women in the total number of unemployed has been unchanged for a long time. It is constantly around 59.5% indicating that the measures implemented on the women's employment plan as particularly sensitive categories are absolutely not enough. As last year's local elections, the Advocate's Office has produced an analysis of women's participation in the elections, and the results are worrying because only 11% of women have been elected to representative councils in local elections and at the municipal level their number is lower and is barely 8.6%. It was stressed in the debate that not one level in the country nor in this Committee did anything but that the number of women in representative bodies would be even compared to men. The debate expressed dissatisfaction with the miscooperation of the Office of the Advocate General for Gender Equality and the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Namely, there have been no promised and publicly announced changes in laws and other regulations in the ministry. Thus, European standards ensuring gender and sexual equality have not been implemented in the educational system in this reporting period. In this regard, it was pointed out that the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports did not respond to any calls for meetings of the Committee on Gender Equality and that the Committee president also addressed the protest letters to Minister Primorac. After the debate, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: A report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality for 2005 is accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66272	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, Ms. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66273	Your Honor, Vice President, Ms. Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. At its 41st session held on 11 May 2000, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities discussed the Ombudsman's work as an interested working body. In the debate, the committee members found that the report showed that in the past year, the work of the prosecutor for gender equality was more focused on global problem-solving and less on addressing concrete complaints. As the report shows, great attention is paid to the adoption of action plans to promote and establish gender equality on the basis of Article 11. Gender equality laws. These plans should be adopted by all state bodies, legal persons with public authority, and legal persons in the bulk of state ownership, units of local and regional self-government, with the prior approval of the Office for Gender Equality of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Although the adoption of these plans is a prerequisite for implementing the gender-aware policy, the majority of the ministries did not adopt those plans even after the expiry of the legal deadline. The members of the committee have expressed regret over these facts, but also because the Ombudsman herself did not respect the provisions of the law mentioned, or that she herself did not adopt that action plan, which would then be a model for all other bodies and thereby facilitate their adoption. In the case of concrete complaints, the report states that the number of performances received during 2005 by individuals, groups and institutions compared to 2004 increased by almost 96.6% and that there were 174 new complaints. Committee members are of the opinion that the number of complaints is quite low given the problems of achieving gender equality, and the question of the role of the Ombudsman for gender equality is raised in the public and whether more can be done in this direction. In fact, although the report itself is a significant part of the public sensitisation campaigns, it is not visible what these results have received. The opinion was also drawn that much more attention should be paid to considering the saddening of complaints, i.e. to make a distinction within the concepts relating to examples of work and employment in the sense of determining how many of them concern labour harassment and how much of the violation of other labour law rights. Also, the report does not show what the lawyer's relationship to the judicial authorities was. How many criminal and criminal charges were filed directly by the prosecutor, i.e. how many new applications were generally made during the past year and what was their effect. The members of the committee referred to the absence of any information on the complaint made by the Advocate’s Office’s staff. Namely, although the complaint was formally filed this year, it points to the state of office in the last year, which is not a word in the report itself, although it is to assume that it has in some way reflected in the work of the office itself. Members of the board praised the prosecutor's insistence on promoting women's rights as members of national minorities, in particular Roma women, rural women and women with disabilities. However, although some progress has been observed in the report when it comes to the education of Roma women, it has been shown in practice that due to excessive red tape in the implementation of financial and material assistance for schooling Roma girls and girls, there is an unnecessary delay in the allocation of funds. Therefore, the importance of better aligning all competent authorities dealing with this problem is highlighted. After the debate, the committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament by a majority of votes of 6 votes for and 2 abstentions to reach a conclusion that a report on the work of the prosecutor for gender equality for 2005 was accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66274	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, Ms. Maria Byte. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66275	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. The Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament at the 30th session held on 11 May 2006 discussed the report on the work of the Advocate General for Gender Equality for 2005 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Ombudsman for Gender Equality Act of 31 March 2006. The Committee is a report on the work of the Advocate General for Gender Equality for 2005 in accordance with Article 77. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed as an interested working body. In the opening statement of the Advocate General for Gender Equality, he pointed out that, compared to 2004, the number of complaints most in the area of family and parental care has been subdued, which certainly shows the intensity of public awareness in the area of protection of the rights of the most sensitive parts of society. Furthermore, the report shows that, besides others, state authorities have not fulfilled the obligation to adopt an action plan to promote and establish gender equality, i.e. from 24 state bodies, the plans have been adopted by only 3 ministries. Since local elections were held in 2005, the Office of the Ombudsman for Gender Equality conducted an analysis of some 3,000 candidate lists and concluded that the same applicants did not take into account the principle of gender equality. The lawyer particularly highlighted good co-operation with the criminal police administration, and praised the efforts made to combat domestic violence by the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity and the Ministry of the Interior. In a brief discussion, it is regrettable that most of the complaints in the area of family and custody relate to the work of the state institutions and their bodies, mostly due to poor coordination between them, and that the Protocol on the treatment of domestic violence adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in September 2005 will also remove that obstacle. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously concluded that the Croatian Assembly was proposed to accept the report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality for 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66276	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mrs Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66277	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, esteemed attorney and deputy, respected colleagues and colleagues. We at the IDS Club can't accept this report, and before I go to the report alone, I'd like to look back at the situation in just the office last year, which then maybe in some way explains why we can't accept this report. In the last year, media reports and complaints from employees addressed to competent authorities and the Croatian Assembly show that 4 employees in the office themselves have reported to the prosecutor for workplace abuse. And, of course, during that application, they described in detail the treatment of them in the office itself. We should also say that the committees and other competent authorities discussed what was going on in the lawyer’s office last year. And from the last notices that I have, and I believe all the MPs, have seen that the employees have hired lawyers to prepare the lawsuit and criminal charges, or 27.4. they have addressed the State's Attorney's Office, and no matter how this lawsuit ends, this must be a serious disgrace to the institution and has certainly reduced its credibility in public. Because who's going to answer for protection from the mobbing to the body whose head is registered for the sake of the mobbing itself? The institution's credibility has been rocked in me, and the office has obviously been dealing with its internal affairs since 2004 and until 2005. Human relations are disrupted. We can say, mildly speaking, that they are dealing with themselves, not with the idea and purpose for what they are founded for. You can see that from work, and that may be clearer when I talk about the report itself. They are also not credible assertions by the Ombudsman that she made, which she made after applying for herself for mobing that the application was unfounded and that her employees were not used to working and not respecting order, work and discipline. If that is the case, the Ombudsman should have already initiated a strict procedure or procedure before the competent official court against the employees in accordance with the Head's obligations under this Law on civil servants and tenants. Why isn't this procedure initiated if employees are bad? And how is it that the report can be good and the employees are bad? It remains an open question of who will pay for the damage if the lawsuit is deemed to have been established. The action can also be directed against the state body, i.e. against the Republic of Croatia. What repercussion and reputation of the institution and state has the fact that against the ombudsmen for gender equality is being conducted for mobbing? And of course, the question of future quality of work in the office is also raised when human relations are disturbed. That is why we in the IDS are expressing concern over this institution's corrupt reputation, and we fear that it will function in the future when trust is violated. As far as the report itself is concerned, we can say that it is really good in form, but the content is very, very questionable. If we go to the general indicators analysis on page 2, it is said that 3 thousand 565 cases were handled in 2005. And these items were also transferred from 2004 and newly opened in 2005. They'd say it's a respectable number. However, the analysis in the further text of the report shows that in this number of 3 000 564 are all cases from individual complaints to the review of the media, elections, action plans, to general business and financial operations of the office. The question is which intrigues. In what number of cases has it been treated with real citizens or a group of citizens in that general number structure? The answer to this question indicates how many citizens recognize this office as a place of appeal. If we go to see the structure of the complaint, it is evident that in 2005, a new 174 complaints were received, from individuals or groups of citizens. Which is compared to 3 thousand 565 cases of 174 objects is only 4.8%. It can be concluded that in a very, almost small number or negligible one, the office was engaged in individual complaints. And the question arises why so few citizens appear. Is it because citizens don't know about the existence of an office that's been operating for two and a half years now? In this case, it could be due to a lack of media coverage, or unrecognizability in the public, or because citizens have no trust for some reason, or maybe because there are no such problems in the country. What are you going to do? You're going to agree with me that that's not the case. Another aspect of the numbers presented in 2005 was received as we said 174 complaints, and taken into account 12 months a year, it turns out that the office received an average of 14 complaints per month. So if this number is divided by 7 employees with a high string of equipment, means attorney, deputy, and 5 advisors, there is a burden per employee of 2 complaints per month. Which is also a small number this way. It shall be observed that no criminal or criminal charges have been filed by the Office. In some cases, it is said to have been committed or misdemeanor proceedings, but in 92.5%, police have launched them, and in 7.5% of welfare centres. So the office didn't run directly in any case. Such a small number of individual complaints indicate the poor burden of the office in this part, under quotes, "weak work" on individual cases and there is the possibility that the office is engaged so-called. General initiatives. So now I can move on to that part of the general state review that consists of 11 parts. So we'll see how much the office worked on that general part, too. First, research, or protection of women from unwanted behavior in the workplace, is listed. The study was conducted in collaboration with the women's action of the Independent Unions. In the operational sense, it is significant that trade unions that shared questionnaires and partially collected questionnaires contributed to this. But since this study was conducted from 7 to 12 months 2005, it can be accepted that the office processed data during December 2005, it had not been able to process it before because the research was not completed. So it can be accepted that during the 12th month, the office was committed to the job, and the previous work was done by the trade unions. Second, the National Employment Action Plan. This part of the report is merely a demonstration of work, data and results of employment promotion measures in the Republic of Croatia in 2005 and other bodies. This represents an analysis taken by state authorities and can only be taken into account as a demonstration of the work of others and as an opinion on this work, not as an activity of the office. Third, domestic violence. The number structure shall state in this segment 77 complaints which is 6.4 cases per month or one item for each employee in the office. It ends in this small number of complaints and is worth everything in advance on these doubts about a small number of complaints from citizens to this office. In the remaining part of this report, this part of the report represents only a presentation of the police annual statistics presented in the report and can only be accepted as such. It also does not appear here that the office has filed any criminal charges. As for the adoption of action plans, to promote and establish gender equality prior to and on committees, the Ombudsman herself states in the report that her priorities were related to the adoption of these plans and the number from the table on these cases confirms that this was a priority and that the office dealt with this in 2004 and 2005. This is commendable, but with regard to plans, it may still be important to say that under all professional assistance in drawing up plans, the government's Office for Gender Equality also approves the plans. The role of the defense attorney in the plans is, in fact, merely a reference to whether or not warnings have been passed. This is, after all, about the kind of splendor and initiatives that have been launched. The failure to deliver such plans is an offence, and the report does not show whether the prosecutor has initiated criminal proceedings against the responsible or not, because otherwise, she would have to file a misapplication against herself because she did not comply with the law and did not adopt an action plan. Plans are important, but there are still many priorities and current hot topics in the country where the office was actively engaged. I think you're asking the whole concept of office in general here. We believe that the Attorney General is not a research institute that only detects and records the situation, so he informs us about it. He should be an outcast, active and remethylative factor of change. As regards the area of education, this part of the report is a sort of review of the situation and documents, and no specific activities are visible and those undertaken should be more accessible to the public. It is not the point of the Ombudsman to inform the state bodies and the Croatian Parliament in his work and thinking, we know that it exists, but to spread the idea of equality between citizens, children and parents here. As far as Roma education is concerned, this part of the report is again merely a review of documents and a finding of the existing situation. The crucial question is whether the Romanians even know that there is a prosecutor for gender equality. In addition to local elections, there were activities and we have to say that the office has collected all the statistics from the election committees, that political parties are also addressed to 105 addresses to be seen from the representation of women and men, only it is again a matter of some sort of spectral questionnaire. As far as the media is concerned, the report argues that more than one increase in the activities of the prosecutor in the media. In my opinion, this is undetectable. It is apparent that the lawyer responded to radio host Sonja Sarunic's statement that Prime Minister Sanader should charm Carla del Ponte, the reaction was to the humorous column of Tanja Torbarina in "Globus" and very rare TV and news come forward. On the other hand, there were many more difficult cases where it was to react and did not respond, such as the murder of a wife in Dubrava when the violent husband was released from the judge and the centres did not accept jurisdiction, although the Ombudsman herself describes it in his report on page 12 and there are many other examples. The question is whether we need an office like this just so we can say we're a democratic country because we have a lawyer for gender equality, even if it's on paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66278	Thank you very much. Judging by the interest of this item of the agenda, equality has been established, 15:15. 15 MPs and 15 MPs. On behalf of the PGS Club SBHS, Mr. Representative Ivo Banac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66279	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Ms. Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. As last year, the importance of the adoption of the Law on Gender Equality and the legal basis for the establishment of the Advocate's Office for Gender Equality and the Government's Office for Gender Equality in 2003 was highlighted. The Law on Gender Equality, as well as the Law on Equal Communities and the introduction of anti-discrimination provisions into a whole series of special laws from the Labour Act to the Media Act, created institutional mechanisms to achieve gender equality, which is one of the constitutional values of the Republic of Croatia. The achievement of equal opportunities for women and men is also based on the modern European, democratic and liberal society that we want to become, and this is what the national programme of the Republic of Croatia commits to joining the European Union. Unfortunately, a whole series of indicators, including the 2005 prosecutor's report, as well as reports from NGOs such as the Croatian Women's Network or the 2005 legal team report from Kontra and Istrak, show that trends are going in the opposite direction. Violence against women as well as against members of gender and sexual minorities is on the rise. State institutions, including police and social labour centres, do not react systematically or resolutely. Of the total number of unemployed, 60% are women, and this trend has been on the rise for years. Women's salaries despite a good education structure are on average 440 kunas lower than men's salaries. As said in this report, the political representation of women, especially in local authorities and self-government, is devastatingly low. 11% of women in representative councils are a shamefully low percentage among the lowest in the democratic world. And the Law on Gender Equality is being violated in the procedure of creating a candidate list with only 19% of women. Women with young children and births are still exposed to systematic discrimination in employment despite the declarative and sometimes given the rights of women to the unimaginative need of demographic renewal of Croatia. These are only the most visible segments, and it is known that they point to the very deep and rooted discrimination of women in Croatian society, in the private and public sphere, which is probably one of the brakes of the development of democratic society. Therefore, the question of the effectiveness and effectiveness of established institutional mechanisms for gender equality in the implementation of constitutional and legal principles and the achievement of the planned state policy of equal opportunities for men and women is raised. For this effectiveness, the effectiveness of the bodies themselves in charge of coordination and supervision of law enforcement is equally important, but also the willingness of the state administration, local self-government and public undertakings to cooperate and implement the law. In light of the negative trends in gender equality, this year's report by the Ombudsman whose office is an integral part of these mechanisms should also be considered. In fact, one of the leading state bodies to establish equality is considering applying and violating constitutional principles and legal obligations. Last year, it was noted that the number of cases, i.e. persons directly addressing the lawyer's office with complaints and requests for assistance for discrimination, was relatively small. It is commendable that the Attorney's Office solved 91% of the cases received, i.e. citizens' representations in 2005. Although there has been a rise in citizens' performances of 96.6% compared to last year, it remains only 174 cases, which is simply insufficient in absolute numbers. This is the number of concrete complaints by citizens dramatically smaller than the total number of 3 thousand 565 office cases in 2005 with the untransparent character of most of these cases which do not relate to the representations of citizens. The report also did not show how many of these 174 complaints were individual, and how many groups and institutions addressed them. All of them are subject to the same figure, and it is difficult to conclude to what extent the office has served its fundamental purpose of protecting individuals from discrimination or how much and in which areas, judging by complaints, violates the group and collective rights of workers, workers based on sex, and where direct discrimination arises, even though the Law on Gender Equality explicitly stresses the need for action and powers of the Ombudsman in both cases. Much effort and time according to the 2004 and 2005 reports has been spent on the adoption of plans, actions to establish and promote gender equality and, as it is said, to learn about the concept of equality and application of the ZORS in state and other public bodies, units of local administrations and self-government and state-owned enterprises and local self-government. It is similar with media demands to integrate equality into their media concepts. Unfortunately, actions do not yet produce significant results because, as is said, in the field of employment and employment, we continue to record negative trends, and the media, although showing a steady progress in monitoring gender equality, are often discriminatory and offensive to women and sex minorities. In view of the large number of cases dedicated to the theme of plans, actions and media concepts, and without visible results, there is a risk that the lawyer's activity will turn into another bureaucratic correspondence with other authorities and state-owned enterprises, which does not usually lead to the desired social changes. It is particularly discouraging that this year's report also states that only 3 ministries of 24 state-owned bodies, which of course count central state offices, ministries and state-run administrative organisations, have come up with action plans. According to the report, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports systematically ignores the prosecutor's warnings, but it is unclear what all the Ombudsman has done about it. I repeat, energy policy and systematic application of the legal powers of both the Advocates and other institutional mechanisms, as well as targeted, timely and meaningful public entry, lead to change. It is therefore somewhat discouraging that the Ombudsman has not used her legal powers to file criminal and criminal charges, especially when it comes to non-compliance with the law in state authorities and local self-government. It does not have the same effect of a private suit, a request to initiate proceedings under official duty by the police or when it makes one respectable state institution specialising in gender equality that can act in public. In a relatively large number of complaints almost half of the City of Zagreb compared to other regions, it is regrettable that the Ombudsman institute did not live well enough outside the capital even though the Ombudsman had traveled all the districts since 2004. It is certainly commendable that part of this year's report is dedicated to a national minority, the Roma, who are exposed to drastic discrimination. At the same time, I suggest that the following report pays attention to the attention of other minorities, especially women with disabilities and intellectual difficulties, or to people who suffer multiple discrimination, including those based on sex. It is also commendable that the monitoring of women's status in rural areas has started, and in this area we expect results with special reference to the situation of returnees in areas of special state concern. Lately, warnings and complaints from NGOs have often come about the increasing threat of women's reproductive rights, and associations and research also point to an increase in the trend of conservatism and control of the sexuality of women and members and members of sexual minorities. Unfortunately, there is no mention of these problems in this year's report. Contrary to some opinions that can also be heard in this assembly, we need special mechanisms for gender equality, a whole series of pointers, and only the lawyer's report tells us otherwise. We need these mechanisms in an earful manner, including the attorney general's office for gender equality. However, after 10 years of the introduction of the first Committee on Gender Equality and 3 years of action of the Law on Gender Equality and adequate state bodies, it is necessary to carry out a thorough evaluation of the state policy of equality and the action of national mechanisms to achieve gender equality, their mutual cooperation and coordination and, therefore, I do not think that we can achieve results. Namely, reports on the work of these bodies and thus this report more indicate the alarmity of the situation than the effectiveness of state policy and its bodies. I therefore propose that the Government of the Republic of Croatia develop an independent project to evaluate the effects of gender equality policy as well as the actions and interconnection of institutional mechanisms for gender equality in the Republic of Croatia. The PGS Club, SBHS, the IMF will support this report, we believe it is not fair to blame the lawyer for the poor state of gender equality in Croatia, we think that guilt can be better distributed, for example, with the Government's Office for Gender Equality, but we also hold that it would be good for the Ombudsman to seriously consider proposing a state lawyer to apply against those state bodies that do not respect the Gender Equality Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66280	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Madam Representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66281	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club discussed the 2005 Report by the Ombudsman on Gender Equality, the implementation of the Beijing Platform and the Action Plan and the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination of Women. Subjects regarding the application of the Law on Gender Equality are marked by a small increase in 2004 already mentioned from 174 new complaints, complaints from individuals, groups and institutes, but of course we do not know how much employment and work, education, domestic violence and parental care, monitoring of political parties and paid ads. Therefore, this figure also points to a small sensitivity of the public about the existence of a Gender Equality Office at all. It is a worrying increase in discrimination in the field of employment and labour, gender-based harassment, while preventing professional training and progress on work. In particular, they would stress the violation of the right to the protection of motherhood where it is apparent that employers prevent the employment or continued work of mothers with young children, preventing employment or the continued work of pregnant women or workers who are using care for pregnancy. This is why they lose the opportunity to establish a working relationship indefinitely. They often fill out questionnaires that go into privacy without having to do with a working relationship. Therefore, pregnant women are in a more unfavourable position than others in relation to employment, in violation of the Labour Act relating to the protection of motherhood and parenthood. In women, unemployment is especially higher than 45 years, and for the same job, less paid. The report shows that a public sensitisation campaign has been conducted by the Ombudsman, but despite this, 55% of women are not familiar with the Labour Law, and 47% are not familiar with the law of the Gender Equality Act. We believe that the real situation in the labour market, the black market and the grey economy is much worse because 400 thousand people in the Republic of Croatia are working on black, and about 200 thousand receive black wages without paid contributions and taxes. Women are dominantly involved in the gray economy. The report shows significant progress in handling domestic violence, resulting from the adoption of a national strategy against domestic violence in the family from 2005 to 2007 and the Protocol on the treatment of domestic violence, the value of which is seen in the introduction of all competent authorities to the obligation to investigate, prevent and process any type of domestic violence. In 2005, the Ministry of Family and Intergenerational Solidarity provided funds for the implementation of activities to protect the abused in the family and for the implementation of the programme of NGOs providing assistance, support and protection to victims of domestic violence from family violence consultants, SOS phones and the press publications related to violence in 2005 spent a million and 617 thousand kunas. A network of counselling centres for victims of domestic violence has been established. In 2005, 15 thousand 696 requirements were received to protect domestic violence, which is 6.2% higher than in 2004. As victims of violence, women’s gender, different ages, and different family status appear exclusively. After this report and the application of the protocol, we believe that social care centres will be more effective by reporting violence to the police or to the competent state attorney and will improve the decision on the care of underage children and decisions on meetings and association with underage children where discrimination occurs most often for mothers in the exercise of parental care rights. The adoption of a government action plan a decade for Roma inclusion from 2005 to 2015 gives particular importance to the situation of Roma women in terms of education, employment and health, as mentioned in the rural environments and would especially highlight women with disabilities. The report also shows an analysis of past local elections related to the promotion of the principle of gender equality and warns of the unfair representation of women and men on lists. There is insufficient analysis of the judicial authorities especially when we know that we cannot single out a single verdict based on gender discrimination. The media recently wrote about mobbing at the Attorney General's Office for Gender Equality. There is no word in the report, although the inscriptions say that something could be written about it in this 2005 report. However, in front of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, we are asking that we discuss this in the Committee on Gender Equality. And at the end of the day. We think that this report will somehow help to improve the removal of all forms of discrimination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66282	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Club, Ms. Jagoda Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66283	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed attorney with an associate, colleague and colleague! The 2005 Report of the Advocate General for Gender Equality made it clear that its action was related to the resolution of cases relating to discrimination in the field of employment and labour, discrimination in the field of education, discrimination and violence in the family, the monitoring and application of the Law on Gender Equality in State Administration Authorities and bodies with public authority in units of local and regional regional self-government, the monitoring of the application of law to other legal and physical persons, the monitoring of media content and paid advertising, and the monitoring of the law required for political parties. In the SDP Club, we believe that a large number of cases which were not resolved in the previous year were already transferred in 2006 as a result of the inadmissible relationship between state authorities and legal persons owned by local administrations and self-government according to the law, given that they did not, within a year of the entry into force of the Gender Equality Act, develop and provide action plans to promote and establish gender equality. The alarming fact is that only three ministries have completed the given task within the specified deadline. It should be pointed out that the Ombudsman has given a number of warnings and recommendations to encourage the application of the law in the segment relating to the adoption of action plans. The government has also announced a new national policy to promote gender equality. Its application has been announced for the beginning of this year and today, at the end of May, there is still no sign of a parliamentary procedure for its adoption. Let us not forget that gender equality is the fundamental value of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, we are encouraged by the high percentage of individual complaints resolved and the fact that 96.6% of complaints were received this year too. We believe that there has been an increase in the complaint due to greater awareness of the damaged and not a real increase in these cases. The very structures of complaints received in 2005 have also been seen to be the most problematic areas in terms of discrimination against domestic violence and parental care and employment and labour. Although over the last year, there were far more gender equality issues in the media seen with different aspects of us at the SDP Club, we feel that we are still under-worked to systematically meet the highest public on the law, the rights that arise from it and also the Gender Equality Office itself. The extremely poor knowledge of women with their rights or provisions of the Law on Gender Equality and the Labour Law also points to the need for further affirmation of this issue in public. The SDP club particularly wants to draw attention to employment and the position of women in the labour market. The area of employment and work is one of the most sensitive evidenced by a significant increase in the number of complaints and their share in the total. Just confirms previously observed violations of the law from job talks where employers ask questions that should not be asked by law through the dismissal of employees when they become pregnant and until they ignore complaints of discrimination. It is good to recall the 2004 GSV sessions, its conclusions and photos from the newspapers. We believe that, unfortunately, there is nothing since the strong promises to improve the position of women in the labour market in that session. Because when it comes to employment, the best indicator of the "success" employment plan is the proportion of women in the total number of unemployed at the end of 2005 is 59.2%. In addition, although there has been a steady decline in the number of unemployed unemployment since 2002, women are not proportional to this. The lawyer in the report particularly points out with the full right of two groups of women who have been particularly affected by such a situation, single mothers and women over the age of forty-five. The SDP club well assesses women's increased interest in incentives in private entrepreneurship and crafts because this is an indicator of a more developed awareness of self-employment and greater self-initiative. In addition to the area of employment and work, domestic violence is shown as the most problematic year after year. The number of requests for police intervention has increased. It's more of a damaged person. On the other hand, the percentage of private, detainees and those who have been criminally or criminally reported is increased, which can be seen as the beginning of a more serious approach to the problem and the treatment of violence in a more appropriate way. Even though criminal charges are rarely filed, as noted in this report. Problems with police and welfare centres, which are primarily the result of poor staff education, are being repeated as before. The objections addressed by the Ombudsman to the work of the Social Care Centre do not differ much from those of last year's report. So inadequate treatment of victims of violence, indistinguishment of perpetrators and victims of violence and so on. We conclude that there has been no needed change in practice and we point to the need for a more intensive solution to these problems. The area of education is subject to numerous criticisms in the report. One of them is related to the non-declaration of the announced laws of the pedagogical standard which should have led to a shift towards promoting gender equality until the laws adopted from the section of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports have led to no shifts. In addition, in the context of national, educational standards, old textbooks are used that are not cleaned from stereotypes. There has been no introduction of female birth studies at the University although this is foreseen by national policy to promote gender equality. There is no professional training of breeders and professors on gender equality topics. It is interesting that academic titles are similar to those of professions, such as diplomas, and are still written only in malehood, so she is a member of the female after a college, for example, a graduate lawyer, not a graduate lawyer. Professor, not professor. And we could list a number of similar cases. The report also points out statistical indicators by which the proportion of women in higher education is reduced with an increase in rank or recorded 45% of assistants, 35% of assistants and only 19% of regular teachers. The SDP club regrets that the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports did not find any promised and publicly announced amendments to laws and regulations and therefore no European standards are introduced in the education system to ensure gender and sexual equality. I welcome the analysis of women's representation in the policy observed in the report through the May 2005 local elections. Statistical indicators related to them are indicative and confirm earlier claims of female sub-representation. Although they account for 51% of the population's stake in the electoral lists of political parties, it was only 19% on average and on the municipal council lists only 16%. The results of the elections produced even worse statistics among representatives in the county parliaments and the city and municipal councils of women were only 11.9%. The particularly problematic situation is at the municipal council level where the percentage is only 8.6. Where there is a downward trend in the number of selected women, and this is about the level of government of direct importance for everyday life. The SDP Club will support the 2005 prosecutor's report on gender equality, and we believe that there are some shifts in the activities stemming from the law, with a view to protecting against gender discrimination. But we also feel that they are insufficient and that additional efforts need to be made and perhaps a more positively aggressive approach to promoting the idea of creating equal opportunities for women and men. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66284	Thank you very much. Due to the celebration of the Day of the Croatian Assembly, we will interrupt a session that will continue at 15 hours. And the first is Madam Vice President Djurdja Adlesic. And then Mrs. Zdenka heard it in order. .../Intruder: Vice President why there is no transmission... /... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know if I can assume that much is being marked today and the City of Zagreb and I don't know. It's probably about that. Thank you very much. It's 12.40 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66285	... She's not in the hall. [[Specially enabled.]] He's losing his right to debate. On behalf of the Club of National Minorities, Zdenka Chuhnil's esteemed representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66286	The National Minority Club certainly supports your report because today the Croatian legal framework on gender equality is a quality thanks to the fact that it is based on international documents such as the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination of Women, the European Convention on the Protection of Fundamental Human Rights and Freedoms, and the set of our laws which are certainly the Law on Protection against Family Violence, Family Law, the Law on the Same Gender Communities, and certainly has a basis in the Labour Act. The area in which there is the most movement as formally, so it really is the area of protection of women from domestic violence. In the last year, nearly 1600 requests from citizens to help, above all, women and police interventions suggest there is a shift. It wasn't waiting as long as it was before for someone to get killed and for the bully to get out of the family. However, we still have a worrying position for women in the labour market, age discrimination, etc. According to complaints received and considered by the Ombudsman, the most common forms of discrimination in the field of employment and labour are sexual harassment at work, violation of the right to the protection of motherhood, discrimination against employment conditions, including criteria and conditions for selecting candidates at work. Discrimination against access to all types of professional training, discrimination against employment and work conditions. All labour and labour rights, discrimination against pay equality, etc. 60% of women's share, or better to say 59.2 in the total number of unemployed in Croatia, is almost never recorded, and is certainly alarming. On the one hand, we have information that among the graduates of the university, or among diplomats more than 60% of them are women. We have the knowledge that our women are appreciated and successful in foreign companies and abroad, and unfortunately they turn out to be unemployed at home, i.e. the question of where these educated women disappears. Someone here today was already talking about under-representation in certain leading places, scientific titles, etc. These women, unfortunately, are gone. The area of education as well as the implementation of national policy for 2001 and 2005 indicates that very few programme objectives and tasks have been achieved. Missed to analyze textbooks and withdraw from using textbooks that fill stereotypes about men and women. The issue of sexual education is still the taboo of our ministry, and despite a dozen programmes drawn up, it simply does not want to be discussed. What about family education that would certainly absorb a lot of these problematic topics and take down the taboo veil. In 2005, there was a significant increase in the number of complaints to the Ombudsman concerning parental care areas compared to 2004 by almost 155% and 55% respectively. As prosecutors or complainants or damaged parties, women with almost 70% appear, but men with as much as 30% appear. Most of the complaints were primarily related to the work of the social care centre, in general and one small part concerned the work of courts, and above all to the determination of restraint. In fact, there is still insufficient sanctioning the granting of abstention. The participation of women in the policy sphere, which is a prerequisite for real democracy, suggests that the shifts in Croatia are slow. The data from the local elections in 2005 is devastating, where the number of women has increased by 1% and from 10% to 11% respectively, while only 4% of women are recorded locally in the executives. 52% of women deserve second representation, but they still serve many parties unfortunately only for logistics. The question arises whether we will finally resolve this by the Law on political parties and quotas where we must surely be aware that we will destroy quality but that we will also approach or move towards the destruction of women's discrimination in politics. We would like to commend the Ombudsman's efforts to promote the rights of women members of various minorities, not only of the national ones where we spoke about Roma women, but also of rural women, then women with disabilities, where in her report she is particularly concerned with these problems normally, regardless of whether it is a right to access to education, access to entrepreneurship and employment, or access to equal conditions. Equal access and the right to equal wages for equal work, evaluation of the right when it comes to motherhood and maternity licenses where women are truly often called and discriminated against. If we now analyse discrimination against women on the labour market from employment, if we consider that on average in Croatia women are 20% less paid, up to a low share of women in the decision-making process both in politics, so we cannot be satisfied in the economy and there is certainly work for the lawyer for gender equality, and the National Minority Club will support its report and its work, including this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66287	Thank you. On behalf of the HSP Club, distinguished representative Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66288	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. Institutions that lose their credibility can hardly be someone's authority anymore, which just happened to the prosecutor's institution for gender equality. No matter who's right about the conflicts in the Office of the Advocate General for Gender Equality, the fact that the abuse charges have arisen has questioned the authority and credibility of this institution. Madam Attorney, when I accuse or criticize someone for something, then I have to be quite clear about it because then my criticism isn't worth it, and I also expected that you in, I don't blame you, but I'd like to clear everything up in your office, to blame whoever's guilty is guilty and to know that when we turn to your office, it's really going to be effective. When it comes to your institution's mission to us in HSP, there are less important issues of danger and women's rights in politics and the media, and more endangerment of women's rights at work and family. It is worrying that the number of complaints in 2005 relating to employment and labour discrimination has increased by 216% compared to 2004. The most common forms of discrimination in the field of employment and labour are gender-based harassment, sexual harassment, violation of the right to the protection of motherhood, discrimination against employment conditions. The conditions and criteria for selecting candidates are changed, discrimination with regard to access to all types of professional training, discrimination against employment and work conditions, discrimination against pay equality and not saying much more. This discrimination is present both in the public and private sectors. In most cases, employers did not even consider complaints about harassment and sexual harassment at work. Are there sanctions and sanctions? Abuse of the right to the protection of motherhood. We all know mothers are discriminated against from pregnancy until they get back to work. In large trade chains as soon as it is known that the woman has become pregnant, the employer is fired with a promise to re-employ her when she decides to work again after childbirth. A woman doesn't make discrimination, don't complain because she hopes at least she'll have a job when she's ready again. Unfortunately, there's nothing. Instead of some kind of sanctions for such employers, we watch them in various magazines next to the latest houses, yachts, or cars. These same employers in the employment of women even have specific questionnaires asking discriminatory questions regarding pregnancy, family and marital status, etc. The public still admires cars, employers' yachts, sanctions, nothing. As for domestic violence, HSP shares concerns with everyone here, but unfortunately only that concern is not enough. The increase in domestic violence continues to grow. Victims of violence are mostly women, and in some cases children. The lack of understanding or indifference of the environment, inefficiencies of the police and the judiciary lead to women living and suffering in fear. I suggest a little more education since the first grade of elementary school where women will learn that women are equal and not second-rate beings. That all their professions are open to them, that they can be anything they want, and whoever tries to disable them or disable drastic punishments, not just a reminder or a puck. When we're all aware of that, then maybe this will work, and otherwise this is all declarative. And the HSP club suggests a proposal for a conclusion would be that this report should only be noted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66289	Thank you. The word is on behalf of the HSS club, the distinguished representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66290	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Attorney General, colleagues and fellow MPs. So here is the report from the Ombudsman, who has submitted a report to us and has informed us about the violation of human rights in the Republic of Croatia, ahead of us, the report by the Advocate General for Gender Equality, which is the task of monitoring the implementation of laws and other rules concerning gender equality, to consider cases of discrimination against individuals or groups of individuals committed by the authorities of the state administration, the bodies of units of local and regional self-government and other bodies with public authority, employees of those bodies and other legal and physical persons. Gender equality is a fundamental value of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia, and the Law on Gender Equality defines and regulates the way to protect against discrimination based on sex and the mechanism of creating equal opportunities for women and men. If it wasn't for the independent body that submitted this report, we would probably point to discrimination, but we wouldn't have suspected evidence based on verified and investigated cases. And this report needs to be seriously considered and sought out solutions to protect the most vulnerable groups, and they are clearly defined. Most complaints come from employment and work, domestic violence and parental care. The number of complaints relating to employment and labour discrimination is worrying. Compared to 2004, the number of complaints increased by 116%. The Ombudsman's report says that complaints relating to violations of labour rights are increasingly coming. Both the report obliges us to open a debate in this House on the status, that is, the protection of workers who are increasingly exposed to the chicanning of their employers. It is common today that the worker has no working time, that it is prevented from using the annual vacation, that there are no days of a week's vacation, that the working conditions are unbearable, and often not paid for, and when paid for, the less part is paid legally, and that part is paid for the contributions to pension and health insurance and the rest of the rest is not paid for in cash and the part is not paid for. The consequences of such increasingly frequent payments will be felt by the worker when he retires, and the state budget feels it already today. In the report before us, the Ombudsman points to a worrying number of complaints filed by most women, and concerns gender-based harassment, sexual harassment at work, violation of the right to the protection of motherhood, discrimination against employment conditions, including criteria and conditions for the selection of job candidates, discrimination against access to all types of professional training, discrimination against employment and labour conditions, all labour rights and on the basis of work, discrimination against pay equality, etc. etc. Analyzing the complaints filed, which have been found as established, is not possible not to ask ourselves, so what kind of society we live in. Do we live in a society where man has become the most worthless slave? On the one hand, the law protects a man, and practice turns him into cheap expendable material. What is particularly disturbing is the fact that discrimination in the field of employment and work is present both in the public and private sectors. The public sector would have to be an example of justice and justice, it would have to be focused on the general welfare of a man who does not achieve any form of discrimination. If the public sector does not implement the laws in the spirit in which they have been adopted and in order to achieve certain higher goals, then it cannot be expected that it will act differently in private. It is an obligation of the state to secure mechanisms, but also their effective function to protect human rights against all threats that are being exposed today. In addition to open discrimination in Croatia, there is present and hidden discrimination which is particularly seen in the area of violation of the right to the protection of motherhood. Today, employers do not want pregnant women and mothers with children and are therefore exposed to treatment that temporarily or permanently excludes them from the world of work. As advocates, we too received letters and requests from young women who were regularly received for a certain period of time, and in the event of pregnancy at the end of a certain period of time when the employers were admitted, they became unnecessarily unnecessary. We're now being reported by the D.A.'s attorney. We couldn't help these young women, and neither could the lawyer, because it gives the employer the right to the law. But if we are faced with a clear abuse of the legislator’s intention, is it not time to consider changing the law to protect those who contribute to the survival of society? We are in vain with all the most innovative strategies and policies if we leave the young without protection, if we expose them to the risks of material and existential uncertainty. Realising that young women are unsolicited in the status of employees indefinitely was a reason to indicate the incompleteness and lack of an intelligent policy that would rely on a three-year maternity leave of the mother. By law, society gives the mother the right to a three-year break-out from work, but cannot protect her to stay in the world of work, and even cannot protect those mothers who are constantly employed so that the employer, after returning from maternity leave, does not assign them to other, generally less paid jobs, and remote jobs. The conclusion is that the woman, especially the mother, is discriminated against. We're going to confirm this by accepting this report, but we haven't solved the problem that apparently exists. The labour law protects motherhood and parenting. But the law of the day violates the rights, and the judicial authority that should be in the service of protection and the realisation of citizens' rights is slow, trom and ineffective. The lawyer says complaints concerning the judiciary are not in her jurisdiction. That's right. But they are in the jurisdiction of this House, and for this reason it could be repeated in full by the debate, which was conducted according to a report by the occupier. However, the debate itself will not lead to a solution unless there is a political will for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to commit itself to taking concrete measures to remove the legal uncertainty of citizens and to establish the functioning of the rule of law. Without the functioning of the rule of law, we will not be able to prevent discrimination against individuals and individual groups of citizens for whom the attorneys have undoubtedly found to be discriminated against. If we analyze the structure of more than 30,000 unemployed in Croatia, we will notice that women are represented by about 60%. We have already determined that the employer is an unwanted young woman, but he also finds women more than 45 years of age unfeeling. The important part of them is single mothers. This part of the population can only be introduced into the world of work by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which would encourage their employment. The 2002 Employment Encouraging Programme has led to shifts. So they employ 37,000 950 women. Of course, these are not satisfactory results, but these programmes were stopped when the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided in August 2005 to suspend the implementation of the 2002 Employment Encouraging Programme. Facing this serious problem, the Ombudsman proposes measures that we at the Croatian Peasant Party's Club fully support. The introduction of targeted programmes for single mothers who are at greater risk, not only from unemployment but also from social exclusion, and the subsidisation of women older than 45 and over who, during the transition processes, have lost their jobs as a technological surplus, would significantly mitigate the integrity of this risk group. Furthermore, the most alarming phenomenon is domestic violence. Fifteen thousand 696 requests were received for police intervention, and five thousand 998 people were detained. Compared to 2004, numbers are on the rise and they are frightening, and more so if we accept the fact that we live in a society where domestic violence is considered a family disgrace that should be kept as a family secret at all costs. The most common abusers are husbands, but often as violent men, children appear, especially silent. At times, we remain horrified by newspaper inscriptions that expose harassment and violence against old and powerless parents. Such cases are generally not reported because institutions that should provide protection for victims of violence are incomprehensiblely far away. Of course, local self-government units should also provide assistance to this group and inform police and competent welfare centres about the observed violence. How effective this would be for us, because in this area, the D.A. has seen work gaps and police and centres. This is best discussed in individual cases. No protection has been given to victims of violence during the long-term exposure to domestic violence. In some cases, after years of silence, the victim was killed. This report found that there was little knowledge of the rights and violations of women's rights in rural areas. It's understandable to me, because these women have learned to self-absorbed, they've learned about the victim, and they don't have time just if you don't want to give any courage to appeal or counsel or any other body. However, these women are discriminated against, they are discriminated against in the rights that rights have, for example, some other women. We will have in this debate a few days in this House to discuss the proposal for a Law on maternity leave for unemployed mothers and mothers craftsmen. According to this proposal, women who are currently unemployed, namely those who do not have the status of working women, which are mostly women who are employed in family economies but who do not have the right to work on maternity leave in the event of adoption, do not have the right to extended maternity leave in children with difficulty in developing conditions, shall not be entitled to extended maternity leave in the event of birth of twins or third and any further child. Unfortunately, the government also suggested that the bill be rejected. Refusal of this bill confirms existing discrimination. And I think it's also an area for the attorney general to point out what puts pressure on women under these living conditions. So, I'm only talking about women who are in the country. However, you will rarely experience that they will make a complaint or appeal, but that does not mean that they should not be provided with help and protection. Therefore, in the end, the Croatian Peasant Party Club will accept the Ombudsman's report, and in particular the proposals for measures to apply which will reduce the number of people discriminated against by the tendency to eradicate discrimination in our society.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66291	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed representative Antun Kapraljevic. He's not in the hall, he's losing his right to argue on this agenda point. We're moving on to individual debates. Dear Representative Stazic. He's not in the hall, he's losing his right to debate. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66292	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed lawyers for gender equality with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. I think this report was accompanied by the attorney for gender equality in front of us with praise. And mostly a lot of clubs support it. True, some clubs here show no confidence, or doubt at all in the report, because there is something going on there in the office itself, the charges are on the side, or directed towards the attorney itself. I think we should, I'd find out what it is right now, maybe someone unconsciously buys into that stuff. Perhaps someone pointed it out, or thought it would be such a good place for someone. Well, then there's a lot of criticism here without any arguments, or I think we should act in a consistent manner. We also see if we can compare one of the opinions expressed by the attorney general about the judiciary itself, not his own, but quoted the opinion, or the written text, written in the mid-90s by Dr. Alan Zelec, who was talking about political cleaning women in the '90s. Although we are all right, more or less, dissatisfied with the work of the judiciary and the general public is dissatisfied, the criticism is great, but when he says and even quotes the other person's attorney general, then the blade points against him. And we often ask the leaders to introduce and seduce order, or establish mechanisms of action. It's identical and in this case, we're not here to discuss it because the charges, at least they're not the subject of it. However, the head of the body and so on is expected to introduce order, or respect for work. Well, that's something we all expect and expect. Which is also our general and general remarks when we talk about the state administration. But when someone, please, dare to talk about it in general, then he's suspicious, then they're accusing him. And instead of waiting for what's really going on here, then unargumented and the Priory attacks the one that points to irregularities. It is usually a mode of action, a modus operandi, almost from an ordinary citizen who, pointing to some irregularities in society, illegality, and to certain leaders of some bodies who, behold, have the courage of civil and professional, therefore they are there, to simply take matters into their own hands, i.e. briefly take responsibility. So, when it's specifically spoken, then we're the protectors of something that, when spoken in general, we all condemn. Such one behaviour is not good, it is often politically profitable, it is competitive still, has a conukture in political life, but these are some double measures and criteria. If we want to settle the situation in general in our society and state, if we behave like this, then we won't make much progress. Because it's the people who show that certain courage and that's why they're in the wind that often don't go well. But no one regrets them even though, I say, we are generally all ready to say that there are certain state institutions working or not doing their job. But the people who are brave and this report is also brave, it speaks precisely in, especially in their own measures, are very specific. It also speaks of the Ombudsman and talks about a whole series of concrete measures that we need here or, that is, the Government should propose or change me in the Assembly to improve the state of human rights, especially women's rights that are still at stake in the Republic of Croatia. The Ombudsman’s institution itself, or the counselor for gender equality, tells us that at least year after year, there is more and more talk and talk, so that the public is sensitised for some behaviours that were absolutely acceptable until yesterday. We didn't think it was an alimony charge, we thought it was something about a particular family. We didn't think it was a social problem to talk openly about, about which the state has damage. Because they often fall precisely because of irresponsible parents, they are mostly men, the burden of abstention often falls on one or another in the very society, or state, or all taxpayers. So it's good to talk about these things in public. How to improve, therefore, gender equality? It is very important that the current policy thinks about it, but not only what it thinks and speaks and proclaims but also how it acts. If rejected, it doesn't matter because the proposal came from the opposition, a proposal to de-distribute maternity benefits by the authorities, then she doesn't really mean it and establish that gender equality because today the woman is being punished for going on maternity leave. A woman who makes relatively high incomes. So, the message is, if you're going to be born, then don't be, or be some kind of worker, and you're going to get that, and that minimum you've got, or a uniform birth benefit is good because it's going to be bigger often than your salary, because you're not even paid there. But if you're a manager, if you're successful in some business, I get many circumstances, often more family and subjective than it is to support the state and society, then the woman is punished for being on maternity leave. So the question arises why we do not improve the situation further and, in accordance with the European Convention and the UN Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women and, therefore, make it possible from six months later, not only to enable this right and to exist in our legislation but also to make it an obligation for men to take care of their offspring. The truth is only a woman can bear, but who defends, who prevents men from raising their own children? So today, as women live their own lives in the family, it makes sense that they are then politically exploited and economically unspeakable. If it's hard for anyone, if it's hard for a Croatian worker today because he's not paid, then it's on his own woman's workers. That's what colleagues of the universe talked about, and that's also one big problem. What kind of me, I would not agree here with our representative who spoke on behalf of the HSP club, our Ruža Tomasic, who says that less, well that's their opinion, but I think that's the main problem and that, from where other inequalities arise, women's inequality and political life. Politics is part of reality. So what kind of equality are we talking about if a regular husband beats a woman? It's a political problem. It's not just a family problem, a social problem. If it's almost no longer news to open a newspaper that the husband not only beat up but killed the woman that killed himself it's a minor problem and that, we kind of just Googled it. It is true that by the basis of this new law, that measures are being taken, these measures are also good how police will act, but they are not yet unified, there are still great troubles. Not to mention single parents, and most often they are women who have a child after a divorce, and a man does not take care of children. There's still a lot of trouble. We have seen an announcement that now men, or parents irresponsible, who do not pay child support, will go to prison. He can continue to go, and even have such final judgments, but unfortunately in the higher court they are suspended. It's not rare for a child to fill his age that he doesn't have any, he still doesn't get alimony, but it's mostly women issues, so they don't work. If it were the opposite situation, there would surely be solutions that would be faster and more expedient. And let me say something else, I say here I repeat there have been a lot of words about it, and this is about those chains of exploitation because today a woman really does slave in those 21st century trade chains. It's one large number of women, 27% of the working population is in the store, and 75% are women.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66293	Thank you. We have a correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66294	Well, it's an incorrect allegation that an esteemed colleague is a quote from Professor Taker, who was in that report by the occupier in the mid-90s. He was published in "Political Thought" magazine number 2 in 2001, and he is controversial in so much that it can't apply to the time period observed because the Ombudsman is talking about 2005 and he's so controversial that he represents a political assessment, and then there's no political evaluation in that historical sense both before the 90s and the 90s and after 2000.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66295	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66296	A colleague injures the Rules of Procedure and that provision of Article 209 because he used the correction of an incorrect quote to kill to distort my exact assumption. What is later published in certain magazines can be professional, but.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66297	Well, you've had a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you can't argue under the institution of the Rules of Procedure, so I think you do.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66298	So I have to explain what she's into. I have to explain, because.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66299	I think so.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66300	Please, let me explain what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66301	I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66302	Then what?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66303	I don't think I'm obliged to give an explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66304	So it wasn't you who hurt the Rules of Procedure, it was you who corrected the false assumption. Will you let me explain to you what I see as a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66305	You can't explain, you've explained what the breach of the Rules of Procedure is.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66306	If you didn't want to, it wouldn't be new.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66307	Article 209, you have called for Article 209 and I believe that Article 209 has not been injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66308	No explanation, so you know in advance. So you know exactly what it was.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66309	You gave an explanation, but I really didn't understand it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66310	In the mid-90s, this thought was published by the Croatian Law Centre and has been visited.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66311	Thank you. Let's move on. Replica, the distinguished representative of Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66312	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Anticevic, I don't think that a lawyer for gender equality needs a protector, I think she can protect herself, and I didn't attack her at all how you called me, but we here have correspondence from workers from her office and I know she has a hard job, but I've always advocated a clean bill of long love and I want to when I turn to someone to know that there's nothing wrong. I don't want to, I don't want to think about what's going on out there, I want to know that everything's okay there as I said it is because there are women who can barely decide to contact a lawyer without any mortgage on the attorney's office. And as for what you said about politics, if a husband beats a woman, it has nothing to do with politics, it has to do with education, ineffectiveness of police and justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66313	Replicate response, distinguished representative Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66314	Well, I agree with my colleague, Tomasic, that the lawyer doesn't need a lawyer, but neither does the attacker. It's about that, so we don't owe it to each other anymore. And you claim that violence against a woman is not a political issue. It is just as we once claimed that domestic violence was not a social and social problem, but that it was a private matter, it was an opinion. So it takes a long time for us to consciousize exactly what it's called, let alone react. Not long ago, violence in the family was thought to be not violence. Women did not even have a name for what was happening to her in the family. So we know how she reacted to the militia then and later the police. It's family stuff, and you're gonna be reported for yelling because you've disrupted public order and peace while your husband beat you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66315	Thank you. When it comes to violence, I read today in the paper that a woman beat up a man. I read that today. The word has a distinguished representative, Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66316	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. So I want to say at the beginning that I didn't feel unequal to my happiness during my education, work and family, but the fact that you're a woman often makes you and puts you in a different position, in a more difficult and complex situation. When we talk about gender equality, we immediately think it's just women's equality. True, women are far more endangered in their equality but still should be pointed out here that it is about equality means both men and women. We see from the report that the prosecutor for gender equality, that a total of 3 thousand 565 cases were handled, and that about 65% were solved. But what got into my eye is that 2,000 and 113 items were transferred from last year and that 806 remained unsolved and so it's being transferred to the next year, that the number of objects that were new meant a thousand 452 and that, in general, the number of cases was lower in 2005 compared to 2004 when there were 3 thousand 739. We are here in the discussions it is pointed out that the number of complaints is small and I believe it is certain, that of them 174 that the need for complaints is certainly and far greater, why it is not expressed either because of the lack of guidance, ignorance or because they think that the office cannot help and I think that every office can help as much as its possibilities and always is more than that nothing can be done. It is unfortunate, however, that the largest number of complaints are 44.2% related to domestic violence and parental care and where we should actually feel protected and we certainly see that the meaning of the complaints is the largest, but here is the good thing that this is the participation of domestic violence, parental care, so these complaints are less, and last year there were 53.4% of them, so I think it's certainly good. I believe that this national strategy for protection against domestic violence from 2005 to 2007 as well as a protocol on domestic violence in the family will certainly make this part more effective and here is the Ombudsman's report and pointed out that this already shows a positive shift in this and that the police are far more involved and more frequent. And it really was before there was violence in the family, that it was a matter of family that certainly couldn't be. The following complaints are common when it comes to the work and employment of 38.5% and generally consider that, in most cases, the complaints were nevertheless expressed by women, showing again that they were at greater risk in their rights. The lawyer’s report says that women are addressed when it comes to hiring or maintaining a working relationship to ask questions about pregnancy, family and marital status and issues about how long they will be away from work, so often it means getting fired or getting a contract for a certain time, and in fact, here in all of us, we need to give a deep thought to how this people who have less and less are actually extinct we can say that this is how children earn profits and wealth. It is therefore good that this National Employment Action Plan has been developed in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2005 to 2008 which rests on the development of ten guidelines for employment and is also based on guidelines for employment in the European Union. I would only look at one here because I think it is important for the area from which I come, which is the direction of ten regional differences, encouraging employment in rural areas through education, research and market development, introducing new methods in agricultural economies, and among the target groups are young farmers and persons dealing with environmental protection, disability and women. If we look at the number of unemployed on 31 December 2005, that's 307 thousand 851 of which women make up 59.3%. But what was particularly interesting to me here was that precisely in the most developed counties where you would expect that the employment of women there was higher exactly those leading women in unemployment and that is the Istrian and Primorje-Gorski County. I was also surprised by the equal position of women within higher education. So that's what you're saying in your report, let's say that women's participation in college assistants is 45% to reduce that number when it comes to docents and docents to 35% and all it's 19% are regular teachers. It's a devastating situation, and when it comes to political life, so it's said that in the local elections in 2005, the total average of selected women is 10.7, the proportion of women in the population we know 51.7 then we see how small that is. And if only she were the president of the representative bodies, they only perform 5.9% of women. When it comes to the share of parliament, we are slightly better with 32 MPs or 21%, but also in other European countries, which is certainly a nice shift but not enough, but the situation is similar in other European countries as well. And in the end, I would say that the public is still not sufficiently sensitive to the existence of gender equality problems. Sensitizing the public and changing one of our traditional patterns of attitude towards women can certainly contribute to a good and continuous media promotion. It is also necessary to promote gender equality through the education system, but we should certainly also contribute to this issue so that perhaps equally and evenly watch when it comes to the daughter and sister-in-law or when it comes to mother and mother-in-law and we know that often in life it is not so. It is especially necessary to encourage measures to help bring family and professional life into line with the goal of facilitating women to return to the labour market and it is not easy to reconcile family and professional life but it is not impossible. It is especially important to provide adequate care for preschool and school children and especially to pay attention to single mothers. Finally, I would say that the Ombudsman stated that, however, progress has been made in the Republic of Croatia when it comes to gender equality, a document on the National Employment Action Plan and a guidelines on gender equality, which says that Croatia takes care of gender equality, that it also takes care of employment equality and that these measures should continue to develop and improve further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66317	Thank you. Replica's esteemed representative, Poirot.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66318	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I agree with my colleague, Ruža Lelic, because she said gender equality is mostly seen as an inequality of women who happen in society itself, but then she added that there should also be a view of men's equality. However, in any case, I think that the problem of our entire society is that we look at gender equality only in certain situations and simply very rarely talk about it. In this House, perhaps once or twice a year. No more than three times, and that's the problem we have to deal with. So European civilization, gender equality sees in the right sense the words as equality between male and female sex, and not at first one of these two that we talked about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66319	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66320	Well, in fact, I almost wouldn't have anything to add to what my colleague Poirot has expressed, but I would like to point out once again for sure then that the question of gender equality means both the question of equality and of man and woman and that no one should have primate in it and that we should deal with it continuously as I pointed out in my presentation. And each of us should contribute to that, but still the position of the woman, often the position of the woman's worker, especially the position of the woman in the country, is certainly far more difficult, although I do not want to reduce the fact that there are families where really fathers have primates and where they care and care and that sometimes they are even more burdened.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66321	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66322	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. From this report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality, which is here today, it can be concluded that the Law on Gender Equality does not apply to a satisfactory extent. All ministries as well as all state bodies that we have had many times today to hear, then legal persons with public authority, and legal persons in the largely owned state or units of local and regional, regional self-government. On the basis of Article 11(1) of the basic Regulation, Gender equality laws have an obligation to adopt action plans based on analysis of the situation of women and men, and to establish the reasons for the introduction of specific measures, the objectives to be achieved, as well as the way in which they are implemented and the methods to view them. However, defeating the fact that most of the ministries are scheduled for the ZORS after the expiry of the deadline, which expired on 30 July 2004 under Article 30, Article 30 of the Law on Gender Equality and despite multiple warnings from the Ombudsman, did not adopt action plans until the end of 2005. If state bodies do not comply with the provisions of the Law on Gender Equality, how to expect or ask others to do so. Therefore, it is no wonder that the UN Committee for the Elimination of Discrimination of Women Discrimination, which was issued in the final comments for Croatia after the UN Committee discussed on 18 January 2005 a second and third periodic report on the application of the Convention on the Elimination of all forms of discrimination against women and the assessment was made. The Committee is concerned about the serious difficulties faced by women in the labour market, as seen at the high unemployment rate of women, persistent and strong vertical and horizontal segregation, pay gaps between women and men, and the prevailing of women in less paid sectors. The Committee expresses particular concern over the situation of women over 40 years of age, as well as the discriminatory attitude towards pregnant women on the labour market. The Committee is also concerned about the lack of attention given to policies that support the division of jobs and family responsibilities between women and men. And after reading the 2005 UN Committee Report on Gender Equality, we will agree that the assessment of the UN Committee is correct, because despite all the legal rules, solutions, national policies, Millennium Goals and accepted international conventions in Croatia is part of discrimination between women on the labour market at the time of employment, at the time of losing their jobs, at the time of pay. Women are harder to hire, easier to lose their jobs, for the same jobs are less paid. In Croatia we are successful in passing laws, but we are even more successful in their non-compliance or non-compliance. The share of women in the number of unemployed in the Republic of Croatia is on average a high percentage of 59.3%, and in certain regions and 65% in the total number of unemployed. The share of women in the number of unemployed over a year is 61% despite the educational structure of unemployed women and men, and their previous internship being the same. Men in Croatia on average have 19.4% higher salary than women. Women are more often asked questions about family status when they are employed. Interesting results from the “My Job” web portal survey show that when it comes to men, the decision to start a family is further that they are mature and responsible. In contrast, employed women will be a permanent source of deconcentration. They will not be able to devote enough to their work when they become mothers, they will not be able to work overtime, and of course there are more frequent sick leave, etc. The biggest problem with work and employment is the problems of pregnant women and mothers, so, for example, women are asked questions about possible pregnancy, the number of children. If a woman is employed on the basis of a fixed-term contract, the contract shall not be extended and the woman shall be out of a job. Similarly, after the employer finds out that women are pregnant, she faces pressures and oppressions or by creating an enemy working environment that forces her to sign a new contract for a certain period of time during which the work relationship ceases. After returning from maternity leave, often women welcome a second job. Of course, it's about an inappropriate job or difficult conditions or less pay or something. By August 2005, the Employment Service implemented a total of 6 different measures designed and implemented by the former coalition government, all with the aim of starting a more effective fight with one of Croatia's biggest problems today, which is of course the problem of unemployment. The D measure of experience to profit was encouraged to employ women over 45 years of age and men over 50 years of age who are unemployed for 6 months or more. This government decided in August at a closed-door session to make sure that the public was less familiar with government decisions, to suspend the implementation of the Employment Encouraging Programme, on the grounds that these measures did not produce the desired results, that they were ineffective, and that the budget was allocated to them with considerable resources. And after those measures were lifted by some strange coincidence, we had a continuous rise in unemployment. When it was found that abolishing the measures was still the wrong decision, the government decided to introduce the "Active Employment Policy Measures" programme and thus constantly tap the place and try to discover hot water. The government abolished a programme aimed at encouraging women entrepreneurship, or a budgetary item encouraging women entrepreneurship, has been abolished and drowned in the item "Incentives of entrepreneurship by particularly sensitive groups of society, defenders, women and young people". In this way, women are equated with defenders and young people who will certainly reduce the effects of targeted promotion of female entrepreneurship. From what I've said, it's clear how far we're from what we want, and that goal is the actual equality of men and women in all spheres of life and work. In order to achieve it, political will is primarily needed, and at this point, it seems to me that the clear and determined will and policy of this government which would show that the Government sees problems and that it is indeed not only declarative for implementing measures that will ensure the development of a society in which both women and men will have equal chances and opportunities. Another problem that makes it quite difficult to achieve the desired goal is our consciousness and our prejudices. Our society is still quite conservative with a strong patriarchal charge and will in fact be the most difficult to change the consciousness and stereotypes that rule in society. It will fit generations and generations until some attitudes and understandings change. Education and education has played a key role in this process since the earliest age. As a result, the worrying fact is that almost no developments occurred in the field of education. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports has failed to fulfil its programming tasks from national policies concerning changes in textbooks both in content and in art equipment. No gender-discriminatory content analysis in the textbooks was launched either. The Advocate-General shall assess with the Ministry the unsatisfactory mostly because of the unlawful or non-existent feedback requested and warned in the memos. Due to the markedly poor situation in this area, in the final comments of the UN Committee on the Elimination of Women Discrimination on the Second and Third Periodic Report of the Republic of Croatia on the application of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination of Women under Special Concern, it is recommended to step up efforts to remove gender stereotypes and strengthen the principle of gender equality in "curriculum" and school textbooks. As well as improving the education of teacher staff on gender equality issues. It's clearly a very extensive job, but that... A systematic approach to the education and education of young generations will be no more significant shift in changing the understanding of gender equality as the fundamental values of modern society. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Until changes occur in our heads and our consciousness until then we will only have a more or less declarative commitment to gender equality. Finally, I would like to express my satisfaction that during the past period, the Ombudsman for gender equality managed to impose the general public as a relevant factor recognised in the sphere of protection and promotion of equal opportunities for women and men, which is evident from this report. An increased number of complaints to the Ombudsman points to greater awareness of the existence of the institution and knowledge of the Law on Gender Equality. This is good because from all that is said in this report, it is obvious that the real work is yet to come, and that is why the baseless claims of some colleagues we have had the opportunity to hear in this debate that have been asked about the credibility of this institute, and there is still the question and need of existence. I think the Attorney General's institution for gender equality in our terms is absolutely necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66323	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66324	Mr. Vice-President Martic said that this government has abolished the promotion of women's employment measures and has in fact reduced their potential. I'd say that's not true. It replaced the existing measures because they were ineffective and introduced a number of other incentive measures such as target groups, women over 45 who have been at the Employment Office for more than 6 months. Then no matter how long they've been at the Employment Service. Then what are the consequences of the technological surplus, which were on maternity leave. And that these measures were effective shows this data that between 1.1 and 30.4.2006 of 46 thousand 160 employees were 24 thousand 908 women and 53.9%, respectively. It means that the replaced measures are far more effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66325	Thank you. Replica's distinguished representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66326	My colleague Martic, you have well noted that the prosecutor has just, that the prosecutor has managed to impose herself, that she is recognizable to the public in her performance. It may be noted, even in the report, and it is not seen because it has often and very often acted in the criticism of multinational companies reporting therefore in their propaganda material in a way that is inadmissible with dignity, from the point of view of women's dignity and with the partner role of men and women in the house. Let us only remember that detergents, that cleaning and washing products are intended only for women and others, were other often even more explicit forms of neglect and stereotype performance, i.e. visible images and images of women and these materials. And you see, the only thing that you can see is that the D.A. just reacted. Neither the courage nor the state, other state institutions, often nor the government itself, nor the local self-government that has been providing such benefits in their own right, were it against the law to lay off the communal contribution, either by firing the debts and the various other therefore outings. I would say that I use this euphemism to protect this large capital, which in this way presents a picture of a woman in Croatia who would never dare present her in Europe or in her home country.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66327	Thank you. The replica is the answer to the quote. I don't see that you've responded to anything other than what you mentioned that the attorney general was able to impose herself on the general public. I ask that we do not use replicas to continue our ten-minute debates. The answer to the replica...... But you can't, so the replica is the answer to the quote. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm curious to know which one of you answered that if we're going to. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66328	Here's what I'd like to answer to my colleague Ingrid, and basically with what she said, I agree with a good part of it because it's facts. The fact is that no matter how we observe and how we sort of commented on this report, it is precisely if we follow the lawyer's reports in this past period that actually see small, though not large, but small shifts. And these little shifts of joy, small shifts in gender equality, of course, I mean both equality between men and women. And that actually proves that this institute and the introduction of the defense attorney justified his existence. However, it is also a fact that we cannot expect the Ombudsman’s office to actually be some kind of magic wand and already with its existence, the appointment of the office will make all the problems in our society go away. He won't! It will disappear only when, in fact, that they disappear is primarily a clear political will, the real political will of the entire society, in the first place the institutions of the state are that, in fact, it is one team effort and only in this way, one day in the future we will achieve the conditions in our society that will satisfy, that is, where everyone will be equal and have the chance and equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66329	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Pero Kovacevic. He's not in the hall. He's losing his right to debate. ... What is it? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] If I hadn't made a mistake. Dear Representative Željko Pavlic Well, he was here now. [[Intruder: He's gone.]] Here, therefore, the distinguished representative Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66330	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of my presentation, I would say that I accept the report of the 2005 Ombudsman's Office for Gender Equality. Reading and analysing this extensively and I would say a comprehensive report on work is evident that the Attorney General has put a lot of work into it. And I'd like to make some of my observations and suggestions. By presenting the activities of the Office in the field of employment and work, the Advocates presented the fact that a significant increase in the number of complaints was made and that, in most cases, they submitted women as damaged parties. The complaint concerns sexual harassment at work, discrimination against employment conditions, violation of the right to the protection of motherhood, discrimination against pay equality, etc., etc. Therefore, to conclude it is reported that the situation in the field of labour and employment is worrying, and discrimination in labour and employment is present both in the public and private sectors. So I ask the Advocate General, did the Office, in addition to its responsibilities and legal means of sanctioning offenders, warn other competent institutions of the system, because penalties are the best prevention? We all know that employers are unfortunately only interested in their profits. They drive expensive cars, buy the most expensive yachts at nautical fairs, spend huge money on spending time, on travel. I don't mind. People make money and let them spend. However, do not spend on the expense of those who do not have the basic existential living conditions that employees in the store, cashiers, at the warehouses do not have 2,000 kunas and their employer to buy the most expensive yacht and the most expensive car in Europe. It's really immoral and inadmissible. I would especially refer to part of the report on domestic violence. It's really alarming, and it would be better to say tragically that domestic violence in 2005 is on the rise. Unfortunately, that's what we read to the daily newspaper every day. We can only be comforted by the fact that the increased number of reported violence is the result of the victim's courage, because the attitude of the victim's protection is better in Croatia today. And it works better because of a series of measures implemented by this office, carried out by the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, the Government's Office for Gender Equality. And this is the National Strategy for Protection against Family Violence, the Protocol on Family Violence, the assistance of Associations that care about victims of violence, good police cooperation and the Social Care Centre, although sometimes we hear that in some cases it was not good cooperation, let's hope that this will never happen again. Of course there's still a lot of work to be done in this area, because when it comes to domestic violence, I'd dare say we've all failed. He scheduled family education, scheduled school education, scheduled the state with all its duties, duties, and instruments. She's scheduled a church. And for all these problems we really can't blame others, we have to blame ourselves. I would also refer to part of the election analysis report for members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government that points to insufficient number of women on the lists, especially the negligible number of women holding a list. Therefore, the principle of gender equality, i.e. equal representation of women and men on lists, does not apply, or the provisions of Article 15 are not respected. Law on the selection of members of representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government and Article 15 of the Law on Gender Equality. However, the public is already quite sensitive to this topic, especially in urban areas, recognises and respects women as essential factors of political action, trusts women and I am convinced that all parties, including mine, will have more and more women on the lists and that both in the first half of the list and bearer of the list. I would also conclude that the Ombudsman's Office for Gender Equality should promote its work and role in society, in particular in the field of protection and reduction of domestic violence in the public, it is necessary to promote tolerance, tolerance, education, education of women Roma women, and seek the best cooperation and coherence of all relevant institutions and bodies dealing with this problem. Because the work of the Attorney General's Office for Gender Equality can't stop for a period of time. It lasts as long as life lasts. And we really must all make sure that the office works well, but not everyone in their segment of life for the work of the Gender Equality Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66331	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66332	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. In the 20th century, women's position has improved step by step with changes in the constitution of national states, as well as numerous declarations at international level, resulting in better access to education, better health care and political participation. Nevertheless, the protection of women's rights in no way has been fully secured by many countries, and unfortunately Croatia is among them. The Croatian Constitution included gender equality among the highest values of the constitutional order, which shows the political will to place the Republic of Croatia among all those democratic states that build their order with full recognition and promotion of equality between women and men as well as an unforgiving precondition for sustainable development. The lawyer's report on gender equality shows, unfortunately, and a number of real cases and different research show that women in Croatia are not even quite equal. I find it particularly worrying that there is an increase in complaints about domestic violence where, of course, the victims of women are or may have missed the case where the victim of violence was a husband. Unfortunately, the situation in families is a reflection of the bad situation in society. What really concerns are the failures in the work of police and welfare centres, that is, their inadequate reaction in cases where victims have asked for their help. The question arises why it always had to wait for the worst to react at all. Recent tragic cases whose outcomes we had the opportunity to track in the media showed that the competent institutions had failed. The day after she spoke to the police for help for fear of being followed by an ex-boyfriend, a young girl was killed almost in the centre of Zagreb. Of course, it is truly regrettable that this happened, but as if we are already used to such events, we can almost daily read about similar ones in the newspaper. And instead of putting an end to such behavior and events, we still close our eyes. In fact, domestic violence does not even pose an obstacle to running for prominent positions in society. For example, the candidate for the Dean of the Faculty of Transport Sciences, who explained in the paper that it was a simple push in the kitchen when a case of domestic violence was mentioned. Not to mention a whole series of before-known cases of public figures associated with cases of domestic violence. The situation is extremely critical and it is necessary to ensure an efficient and multidisciplinary approach in order for competent institutions to respond adequately in situations where victims of domestic violence seek their assistance and protection so that these reports and the institutions themselves of the Ombudsman for gender equality would not be their own purpose. First of all, I think of the police and social care centres not to repeat the case listed by the prosecutor in the report, in the description of the particular case when the victim of domestic violence addressed the police and the welfare centre, and the two centres were in no way able to agree on whose jurisdiction the victim was the victim in view of the reported residence. In addition to measures to improve the work of police and welfare centres in these cases, it is necessary to sensitize society's attitudes towards violence against women through the media and more severe penalties for violent people who will be a clear message to potential bullies that our society does not tolerate such behaviour. I am not convinced that the tightening of penalties for crimes that threaten gender equality, which primarily relate to domestic violence, rape, discrimination, etc. envisioned by the latest amendments to the Penal Code, indeed, to reduce the number of criminal acts of violence against women. The next area where women's rights are increasingly being violated is the area of employment and work. Not only do they have to ask them whether they are planning to become pregnant anytime soon, but in the case of the same employed woman, they have a great chance of losing their jobs and everything within the framework of the law. In this case, women are particularly threatened by the fact that, in the event of pregnancy, they lose their jobs regularly through the end of the contract. Pregnancy is a period when a woman is particularly sensitive and the last thing she needs is a quit. And here I mean not only the deterioration of the financial opportunities of the family concerned but also the particular danger to pregnant women's health. There are more and more of these cases where women even turn to the media for help, hoping it can help them get back to work or at least warn in some way of the injustice they have done to them. The Ombudsman's report described a similar case where pregnant women were not extended during the use of the disease after the end of the last labour contract, as the worker was sick due to complications in pregnancy. It happened after her work contract extended 20 times in general to one or three months and that story ends. The attorney’s office has addressed certain recommendations to the employer, and how much this will benefit a young pregnant woman, who is now a safe mother, we can conclude on our own. The state has once again proved to be a weak protector of the weaker, in this case to the pregnant woman in front of the employer. I would also like to note the results of last year's local elections where there were no developments in women's political participation. I think it's important to repeat some of the information we've already heard in today's debate. The report suggests a small number of selected women in the local elections, only slightly less than 11% and according to the census in the Republic of Croatia, almost 52% of women. These data are difficult to interpret as women are naturally less capable than men, but they are a clear message to those who draw up candidate lists to pay more attention to the census because women have the right to be represented in the same way as men, and more women in politics means better protection. I join all those who will support this report, but also support the initiative to complete the investigation as soon as possible and resolve relations between office employees and about the charges of demeaning and mobbing so that this important institution retains faith in dignity and dignity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66333	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Antesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66334	Thank you very much. Here I agree with most of the thesis presented by the distinguished colleague Sobol, however...... Perman. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] However, I would pollemize with her in one issue, which is how she said that women in our society are not entirely equal. If we are talking about other political parties, I think that the thesis is standing, but I would not agree with the SDP because it's whiteish clear, here's now from this example, that we in the SDP are very much taking care of gender equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66335	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66336	Thank you very much. Well, here I would agree with my colleague on relations and relations between women and men in the SDP, but unfortunately the SDP is not the whole of Croatia, and in my debate I talked about the situation in the Republic of Croatia and also about other parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66337	Thank you. Dear representative Ljubica Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66338	... And I did? [[Specially enabled.]] Okay. As you know, we have a law on gender equality. Gender equality is a constitutional category, we have the Government's Office for Gender Equality, Attorney General and Parliament's Committee on Gender Equality. But do we have a legally arranged society of high democracy in which gender equality exists? Of course we don't. Unfortunately, we won't have it for long because the problem we're talking about goes far into the past, and you might briefly realize that we're still a traditional society. The problem we're talking about is impossible to expect only the attorney and her office to solve, but all of us, the competent institutions, are leaving the family. From the story of whether you're buying blue or pink Banks, whether you were born with a single, or you got a diet. So through kindergartens where the girls play barbics, boys with guns and trucks, through elementary school, high school and college where we have textbooks that fill stereotypes, who don't follow a life that's still developing and changing, slower than we'd like, but fortunately, it still changes. So the answer to those who ask the question is whether we need a lawyer for gender equality and her office I must make it clear and loud, certainly yes. Because the problem we're talking about won't unfortunately be solved quickly. It is a process that will develop slowly or painfully, but the most important thing is that we face this problem. As can be seen from the report, the most complaints are from the field of employment and work. The share of women as we have heard among the unemployed is almost 60%. The share in the number of those who receive the minimum wage guaranteed is 77%, if you do the same job as your male colleague, you may get up to 20% lower, if you are of course lucky to work. If you are a young woman, you want to get a job you must be prepared to ask about your marital status, if you want when and how many children you want, which your male colleague is not expected to respond to. Because a man who decides to start a family proves his stability, maturity and productivity in society, and a woman who wants to do the same, the fact that he's going to get a child actually becomes a burden. Because she's the one who's gonna have a baby, raise a kid and take care of him when he's sick. So when you're weak, there's no real protection. ... from your hard-to-get job, where you're not well-paid, and you might get sexually or otherwise harassed and go to your nest, into your four walls, into your flower house. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And there one day you find that the one you considered your prince and decided to start a family with is no longer that but turned into a path, something that might be called Mr. Jack or Dr. Hyde. One day he starts beating you. You're not quite sure why yourself, but there you go. A colleague laughs, but we're company... Yeah. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is a society in which the saying "every day should beat a woman at least once, and she will certainly remember why." And, colleagues and colleagues, if you think they're primitives, that's not true. They're physicists, but they're also university students. Some do, unfortunately. So we should send a message from the family through kindergartens, schools, colleges and societies as a whole that violence as such is unacceptable in any form whatsoever. And it can be very subtle, it doesn't just have to be physical, it can be verbal, it can be emotional, but it's equally painful and it's unbearable. In all that talk, there's only one thing that makes me happy. What begins with these problems is clear, loud talk, and send a message that it will still not be able to do so. And because of us and our children who actually see what we're doing more than what we're saying. Because they read us and they're right. It's not about what we say, what we're going to declare, it's about how we're going to bring what we're saying back to life. If we disagree with that, the children will do what we do, not what we say. And unfortunately, children are unprotected in this society because there are irresponsible parents. And I'm not gonna say it's just men because there are irresponsible women. And that's why I think it's very important to determine in case the family falls apart and all the problems that arise, to really determine what's best for the children. Because despite being a woman, which I think motherhood is extremely important, I'm also sure there are fathers who would raise their children just as well, and for some time perhaps even better. And that's why each case needs to be considered in the most serious way. I'd also like to look back on these stories about the share of women in political life. Whether it's necessary or not. I thought it was a story that we all absorbed a long time ago, because if half the population were women, and that's what they do to us, it would be logical and natural to keep it both political and economic and every other kind of life. This isn't the case with us. And it won't happen until those famous women's quotas we talked about become mandatory. And why would that be good? I'll tell you now. In order for anything to really change for women, women would first have to be solidarity, alone with each other. Regardless of the political option they belong to, the ideas they represent, solidarity on a birth basis. One other aid and support when needed, which does not exclude our political and any other differences, but there is some minimum that requires all of us a final effort. Because in order for something to change, there has to be a number of hands here, in this assembly, and at local levels. It's where it's decided. Otherwise, everything will remain at the level of the story. It should, it might. We had in the neighborhood of an old man who died in the '80s, was unemployed, went from house to house and whatever you did somewhere he came and said it wasn't good and needed you, you were mine. That's what we called him when he was gone. So you should do this, you should do it, but it doesn't seem like anything. We can afford it when we drink coffee in informal conversations, but in this House no, but for the fact that there aren't enough women here I don't blame so many men or at least as many men and women, because women can't expect their problems to be solved by someone else, I can't live looking for a tutor and a magic wand. Each of us, every woman must do the best she can for herself, for her children, for her daughters and sons, for those who come because everything we do today will not have to be our children tomorrow, and when that happens, we will live in a much better society than we have today, although I, in total gender equality, have absolute freedom and democracy, do not believe that any of us will testify because I doubt that this is possible on this planet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66339	Thank you very much. We have one replica, Mrs. Ivana Sucec-Thrakostane. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66340	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I couldn't take it because for days I've been hearing about this report that I discussed on two committees and I didn't want to take the debate here, but at least this was my colleague Brdarić's debate on this report. So this was one set to say to the worldview and a set of problems that you have so generalized that it doesn't stand at all, so I can't accept that on the basis of individual cases that have a name and name or certain phenomena we generalise and we're talking about society in Croatia that it's lagging behind, fucked up, like this or like that. So, I argue that Croatia's society is a modern society that has fortunately been there or is still fortunate to preserve certain traditional values that have proved to be good, and these are generally accepted human values everywhere in the world. So, I don't see anyone should be more or less screwed up if they behave in accordance with what's called the general principle of good life and can therefore not accept that based on individual bad experiences speak or individual... So the very word you said in the dialect is that it is a particular locality of the Croatian state, so that all of us in the Croatian state are being discriminatory towards both newborn children and sex in general. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, I believe that this report is an excellent set of data that points to certain phenomena, which I repeat my name and last name and place where they are being solved, and I won't allow and can't allow, therefore, even as a woman who agrees that we have certain problems, that we are generalising and disastering the situation in Croatian society and that we still attribute that there is a policy intention, and I suppose some sort of conspiracy organization that supports the beating of women in the family. So, as a woman, I am determined to stand against it. It is that things that are partly post-traumatic stress that do not justify someone’s violence may happen, but in some ways it may be possible to understand the circumstances that lead to certain increased aggressive phenomena, but in no way is it on the line of what any of the faiths that we are here or preach any policy, in the end not the least ruling policy that brings plans and programmes to prevent them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66341	Thank you. Answer, Mrs. Brdaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66342	Well, I have to say, fellow Members, I don't consider myself a flaw for looking through a person's name and name, not as a number and statistics. I think people should really be first of all because even if these cases we're talking about were actually a little scarier. That's why I used that expression that you saw, and you said it and it's true that from this report it's obvious that these problems exist and that fact is and you pushed your head into the sand or not, I said this or that won't change the real state by a hair. I didn't say that any of these people here support a condition that they want. It would never occur to me because it would mean that there are sick people here. I don't think so. But that some things exist, there are, there are very many, there are, there are more and more being talked about, it's spoken of and it's true and it's commended to the fact that unfortunately there are more of them far more than is visible from this report and than you and I might think. That's not why I'm happy. I have three daughters, and I don't want anything like this to happen, but it won't be solved or prevented if we say that the situation is actually good, and that there are some specific cases in the report that we wouldn't want to take for granted as a measure of the situation in society.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66343	Thank you very much. In conclusion, Ms Gordana Lukač Koritnik, Advocate for Gender Equality, will address the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66344	Honored MPs, respected MPs. [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] I'll try briefly to look back at some major remarks and evaluations regarding the report that's been reported on the work. First of all, it may seem to be a question of what is the prosecutor’s responsibility for gender equality, and an accent is placed on complaints whether there are many, whether there are few, and what is left to the fact that it might not come into its jurisdiction. The Ombudsman shall follow the implementation of the Law on Gender Equality and all other relevant regulations, including international conventions. There's no way or I don't see him checking out without collecting the data. So to find out how past local elections were, we had to analyze them. The truth is that we could remember some other institutions that could have done it, but it wasn't realistic to expect it, and because of the speed and closure of the polling stations, we did it. These are the data that tell us where we are and what are the basis for the comparatives in the next local elections. These are data that the Republic of Croatia will use, as well as all other data, to respond to the application of different conventions, and even in Brussels, as has already happened this year, the Ombudsman's data for gender equality has been used. Therefore, it is not all about complaints, but with complaints there is a thing so that almost 100% increase in complaints. As regards what I have highlighted as the biggest problem, which is women and the labour market, I must warn that the law gives a good framework to change something here and that these are specific measures that the law foresees as specific benefits which allow individuals to have equal participation in public life to eliminate existing inequalities or provide them with the rights for which they were previously denied. These measures cannot be implemented by the Advocate General, but I think this report is the basis for showing where these inequalities are present and what could be done and effectively documented. In relation to the domestic violence that has been mentioned here, it is true and I firmly stand behind the shifts being visible but the number, the size of this violence suggests the necessity of prevention and something must be done also seriously. Secondly, we do not have women who are exposed to violence and when they manage to save themselves and escape have nowhere to go, at least not evenly in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. And third, free legal aid so they can protect their rights. The second part of the objections and discussions concerned the media presence of the prosecutor for gender equality. I have to say that we collect data about how the media generally writes on the subject, as well as the attorney-general, that these data indicate that in 2005 it was also the subject and the attorney-general in their actions. I don't think a year has written so much and talked about gender equality. In relation to the question of how we reacted in the event of a misdemeanor, did they go for punishment, etc. I have to explain here. The law gives very little authority to the Ombudsman in relation to the fact that she could take repressive measures and when she could do so, we did not. It was a conscious decision because otherwise we would have to close the office and the thousands and thousands of legal entities to report infraction and then actually go through Croatia in criminal courts and represent the foundation of the application. We decided on another approach, and in thousands of cases, we sent rushes, phone records, we have official records, it's a huge job, plans have been made. I am responsibly saying that there was no activity of the attorney general and that her office would not have had ten plans in this country brought forward. And this year, the trend of making plans with the same method continues which, given the size of the office, seemed to be a more appropriate solution. Compared to criminal charges where people often happen to be for some things that can only actually be prosecuted by a private lawsuit thinks they're within the attorney's jurisdiction. That's not what we're doing or doing. When it comes to sexual minorities, however, there has been a lot of violence, but I must say that at the time, these associations that were engaged in this were very intensely responding, and they all actually prosecuted by filing criminal charges and there was no need for the Ombudsman to react there. What we've been doing, and that's one authority to demand surveillance. We were in forty cases when it wasn't responded to our demands by requesting supervision from any of the police, either from the State Inspectorate, and that's where we used the opportunity. And that's something that actually proved to be effective. I've been asked here if the Romanians even know who the lawyer is for gender equality. I firmly believe that they do not know and do not know because they are illiterate, living in settlements without electricity and water, without television, and this report just as last year's report pointed out the need for this population to especially have women's schools, to have health insurance. We traced data that was very difficult to get, and we showed some of it that they were leaving early school, that they had early pregnancy. Thus, until they are educated, it is hard to expect that they will know who the Ombudsman is for gender equality. I was personally in their neighborhoods, talking to them, and all the Roma associations certainly know who the lawyer for gender equality is. This eventually comes from the opinion of the Government Office for National Minorities. And in the end, although I think, I firmly believe that this should not be the subject of this 2005 report on the alleged mobbing case in the office. I think not only for myself but for other officials and officials that these jobs should not be accepted if they do not believe in the system. The system needs to be criticised, but the assumption of doing this job is that you believe in the system. If you don't believe in the system, but in anarchy, then you shouldn't accept it. Therefore, I am departing from and respecting the public's right to know what's going on at the Attorney's Office immediately the first day in a matter of hours I send a press release to everyone. When the proceedings began before the Committee or the Human Rights Subcommittee, I first sought it, it seems to me that it was logical to give me arguments because it began to debate a play that had no fact. When I received the performance by respecting the system, I manifested myself very extensively on the allegations of performances and attached the relevant documentation. The play you've got you but not my testimony from which something I think would give you the conclusion of every objective observer. By believing in the system, whatever happens, I think we need to go through the system and solve it, because if we don't believe in the system, it means we believe in the law of the lynch. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66345	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66346	Next vote. Report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality in 2005. I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the work of the Advocate General for Gender Equality for 2005 is hereby adopted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 82 for, 5 abstentions and one against the accepted proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66347	We move to the agenda point - Annual report on the work of the Post Office Council for 2005 in accordance with Article 28. The postal law of the Post Office Council delivered that report. You received the material by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Communications. You received the reports at the session. The government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Representative for the Proposer, Ms Teresa Bencic, President of the Post Office Council. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66348	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I welcome all present and since this is the first report I will briefly present to you, the Post Office Council as well as the very young actually regulatory body, for the first time I appear here in front of you, and then I will present this Council and, in short lines, say something about the report even though you have probably all had a chance to read it. The Post Office Council was founded on the basis of the Post Act of 2003 as an independent and independent regulatory body with public authority for the area of postal activity in the Republic of Croatia. The Council consists of 5 members appointed by the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia at a time of 5 years. Members of the Council were appointed in July 2004. Therefore, of the 5 members, only the President is a Council employee, or the Council's tasks, professionally. The postal services council as a regulatory body on the postal and courier market was established with the aim of regulating postal transport in order to make universal postal services available to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia under the same conditions as to ensure a level playing field for all postal and courier service providers and to protect the interests of postal and courier users. The postal law gives the tasks of the Council and they are carried out on the basis of public authority and... And there are days, and there are other jobs prescribed by law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the basis of public authority, the Council shall carry out the following tasks: it shall issue universal postal services permits and shall adopt solutions on the termination of the authorisation and upon receipt of an application for the provision of other postal and courier services. It provides a solution setting out the amount of funds from the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the settlement of losses on reserved and universal postal services by a public operator. Where revenues from reserved and universal postal services by a public operator do not cover their costs and costs cannot be settled from the profits of a public operator. It sets out how to separate the business activities of a public operator in respect of their accounting in order to ensure the accounting management of reserved postal services for each service separately from unreserved postal services, and in the context of unreserved postal services, accounting for universal postal services separate from postal services which are not universal and courier services. It resolves disputes between the public operator and other universal postal service providers regarding the provision of access to the public postal network. Sets the prices of reserved postal services on a proposal from a public operator. As regards the conduct of other tasks prescribed by law, the Council shall monitor the application of postal and courier services prices and propose to the competent authority of the State administration the taking of legal measures in the case where the postal and courier service provider adopts or applies prices contrary to the provisions of the Postal Act. It agrees with the general conditions of the postal and courier service providers. It agrees with the general act of the public operator governing the conditions and price of access to the public and postal network. It monitors the development of postal and postal and courier services markets and takes the necessary measures to ensure a fair and effective competition on the postal and courier services market. It provides users with the right to universal postal services under equal and affordable conditions. It shall carry out expert supervision in respect of the type, scope and quality of the provision of postal and courier services. It shall cooperate with international postal organisations and institutions and shall participate in the work of their expert bodies and working groups. He's working with foreign postal regulators. He submits a report to the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on his work. In addition to the previous consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it shall adopt a work programme, a financial plan and a final account. It shall keep a register of postal service providers according to the information established by law. It publishes a list of postal and courier service providers in the National Journal. He does other things by law. The providers of postal and courier services are obliged to submit their financial reports and other business-related data to the Council. The Council shall have a professional service which shall carry out administrative, professional and technical tasks and carry out technical examinations and expert supervision tasks. The indicative number of executives has been determined by the systematicisation of the Council’s professional service posts, which provides for 16 employees. The Section for Professional Affairs and the Department for Economic and General Affairs shall be established by the Section of the Professional Service. The professional service was formed and started working in the first half of 2005 after the arrangements and equipment of the business space. During 2005, four employees were employed. Ten Council meetings were held in 2005. The meetings adopted financial reports for 2004, an income and expenditure plan for 2005. Rules of procedure and general acts of the Council, decision on the acceptance of the general conditions of the public operator of the Croatian Post, adopted observations on the draft final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the postal law. A solution has been made to determine how the public operator's business activities are to be separated in respect of their accounting as well as to amend and supplement the Council's general acts which have general acts in accordance with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mail. A rebalancing plan for 2005 was also adopted and a previous agreement was given to the general conditions of the public operator Croatian Post Office. During 2005, cooperation was achieved with institutions involved in the operation of the postal system at national, European and global level. At national level, the Council collaborated with the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, the Croatian Institute of Standards, the State Statistics Institute and the Faculty of Transport Sciences. At European level, the Council co-operated with the European Postal Regulators Association, the General Administration for the Internal Market of the European Commission and the European Commission Delegation in the Republic of Croatia, the Association of European Public Postal Operators, the International Postal Association. By association of European express service providers and other associations that gather express and courier providers as well as other institutions and associations. Cooperation with the European Association of Postal Regulators has been achieved through the participation of the Working Groups of the Regulators of Europe, the Working Group on Economic Affairs, the Working Group on Monitoring and Data Collection, the Working Group on Regulatory Issues and the Good Regulatory Practice Groups. The Data Control and Collection Working Group shall have two groups: for the statistics and application of CEN standards, which shall prepare expert materials for meetings of the European Regulators' Association for the adoption of all members at European Union level. The Working Group on Economic Affairs also has two sub-groups: for the accounting and distribution of terminal costs with a purpose of expert opinion and a proposal for a solution for the management of terminal costs, a model for the separation of the costs of public operators, postal centres and other current economic issues. The Council staff participated in the work of those groups as well as in responding to the various economic nature questionnaires concerning the postal system of the Republic of Croatia. In the Task Force on Regulatory Issues, there are sub-groups for the current issues of national regulatory authorities and for the resolution of current issues. Exchanges of postal e-mails between Member States of the European Union and other European countries. The Council co-operated with the representatives of the European Commission in particular with the representatives of the General Internal Market Administration and the European Commission in charge of the postal sector and the provision of postal services in relation to the project of the collection of market statistics and postal services and other postal sector issues. Co-operation remains with the European Commission delegation in the Republic of Croatia on the preparation and development of a project to strengthen the national regulatory body under CARDS 2004. World-level co-operation during 2005 was achieved through co-operation with the World Postal Union. In particular, with the Advisory Commission and the International Office of the World Postal Union as regards the exchange of data collected by regulatory authorities, the introduction of standardised standards into the postal system, the postal transport costs system and other current issues relating to postal regulation. During 2005, representatives of the Council met twice with the Director-General of the International Post Office of the World Postal Union who visited our country and expressed a desire for the meeting. Through the conversation, it could be concluded that he was well aware of our situation in the postal sector and said that the business of liberalisation is not easy and that we are going step by step towards achieving the objectives outlined. The Council also took part in the process of negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union by membership of the Working Group for the chapter in which the provision of postal and courier services is located. In order to provide postal services other than universal couriers, a legal person must submit a notification to the Postal Service Council. On 31 December 2005, there were 15 registered postal service providers who were not universal services and courier services received by the Council during 2005, and the remaining 8 were received during 2004. In part, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Tourism received it because until the Council was established, it was acting as a part of the Council. During 2006, we received 3 applications, so the total number of registered postal service providers that are not universal courier services in the Republic of Croatia is 18. In view of the type of services provided by all notified providers registered for the provision of courier services, 10 of which were registered only for the provision of courier services, two for the provision of courier services and transport services and for the delivery of the press sent by the publishers, and 6 for the provision of courier services and document exchange services. In view of the area in which 6 providers provide services, it has been reported for the provision of services in the territory of Croatia and in international transport. 9 providers are registered for the provision of services only in the Republic of Croatia, 2 only for the provision of services in international transport, while one provider is registered for the provision of services in a specific territory of the Republic of Croatia. List of all providers of postal and courier services The Council shall publish in the "National Journals" and on its website www.vpu.hr. The postal service council shall be financed exclusively from the budget of the Republic of Croatia. In 2005, the funds amounted to a million and 975 thousand kuna. Of which 75.6% were spent on regular business and current expenditure and 24.4% on investment purchases. Out of the total amount of the budget received by the Council, almost 50% actually covers the salaries and compensation of the members of the Council. I'd like to thank you for your attention. That's it. I wouldn't want to put any more pressure on you. Anyway, I'm saying, as a relatively young regulatory body, there was a lot of work of course at the beginning of itself because it was meant to form it, start from scratch, which is not even a little easy work. And we should have found all the people, and now we're still in phase and employment, but it seems as much as the funds are budgeting us. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66349	Thank you. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is the HDZ club, Mr. Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66350	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam President, colleagues and colleagues. Here I am also stressing that the Post Office Council is as an independent and independent regulatory body with public authority for the area of postal activity established by the Post Act of 2003 but its members were appointed only in July 2004, and the professional service began working in April 2005. And before us is the 2005 report. I return that the professional service was only partially formed in April 2005. So, and that's why this report is actually more of a report on structure and powers than annual work. And we think that this is one first, and you could say an incomplete report, so the HDZ Club takes that into account, and we think it's for justifiable reasons. We know that the basic function of the Council, and after the liberalisation of postal, courier services, is to regulate the functioning of postal transport. In order to do so, they had to form a professional service before, to adopt appropriate acts, statutes, Rules of Procedure, several regulations, etc. It is interesting that the Council has not received any requests other than the Croatian Post Office for the provision of universal postal services. Why? Because the universal postal service provider undertakes to perform a postal service in all Croatian territory on equal terms. And it actually shows that not long ago we did the right thing when we left the reserved service to Croatia, but we also made a commitment to the universal service. Otherwise, everyone would cover the big cities, and to the small places, the mail wouldn't even come. Evidence? So all 18 reported during 2004. 8, 2005. 7 and 3 applied for non-universal and primarily courier services in 2006. The report shows that the Council is working with domestic and international operators from postal and courier services portfolios, as well as taking part in various seminars aimed at improving its employees, as well as through its website are increasingly available to the public. That's what we're estimating with good and useful moves. Taking into account all these circumstances, the HDZ Club will support this report with the belief that the real, good consequences of the liberalisation of the postal and courier services market will be felt by these and next years. We therefore want the Council more and more jobs so that these services can be better, more accessible and cheaper for citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66351	Thank you. An individual debate. The first is Mr. Krunoslav Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66352	Mr. President, here's Mrs. President Bencic, in a written report, first of all to praise the transparency and detailed content that advertises the monitoring of council work. I wish the rest of the reports were this nice, with nice content ahead, and then we'd be able to keep up with it. We have already heard that members of the council were appointed in July 2004 and in fact in 2005 the first full year for which the report is even submitted and should be pointed out here that the first employees are employed only in April 2005, so it is, as we heard earlier, a new council. Croatia has taken the obligation to comply with the European Union rules on the provision of postal services and, normally, the need to set up a regulatory body because of the rapid opening of the postal services market. We have also heard that the exercise of expert supervision in respect of the type, scope and quality of the provision of postal and courier services is in the power of the council. The introduction points out that the council must ensure equal availability of universal postal services to all citizens as well as equal conditions for competition between all postal and courier providers. It should be noted that he is still the sole provider of the universal postal services of the Croatian Post Office, and the number of donors we have also heard that there are already 18 of them. Interestingly, they are all registered for the provision of courier services, with 8 here providing some other services. I believe that they will all comply with the general conditions with the law and the regulation that have actually been amended and updated during 2005. In practice, the least profitable is Croatia's mail because it covers, the only one covering the entire area of Croatia. Unlike the national operator, the other courier service providers focused on the densely populated areas of Croatia where delivery costs are significantly lower. The problem arises if the courier doesn't find you at home, because the notice says that on the recommendation of the shipment, the recommended shipment comes to another city. I didn't go to get such a shipment myself, and I don't even know what's going on with those shipments anymore, because the other notices are gone. I think the report should also contain a detailed description of the professional supervision carried out and whether and to what extent the postal inspector is involved. The employees of smaller operators often complain that they are working on repetition, repeated short contracts. It also mentions working on black, so we're gender-equal, men, are mostly male employees, and they also don't know what's going to happen tomorrow with their jobs. Then with the combined payout, something in cash, something over the bill, and there'd be a lot of work for some other inspectors. I believe that next year the Council's report will be more detailed, less formal, more extensive precisely in concrete work and quality of the provision of postal and courier services. It is certainly necessary to continue working well with the European postal regulators' association and to educate and professionally train council workers primarily for the sake of the expected integration into the European Union, and all this will certainly help to ensure quality control of the increasing number of postal service providers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66353	Thank you. Ms. Representative Intrid Anaticevic Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66354	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear lady, colleagues and colleagues. As we have now heard from the introductory words, one of the tasks, one of the main tasks of the Post Office Council is to monitor the quality and legality of postal services. I think it is for all of this other part of the business that has been placed in the competence of the Post Office Council, this one seems particularly important to me, especially for users, and particularly important for users who, as specifically pointed out by fellow Markovanovic, for reserved services, so where there is no competition. I'd like to look back on something that's a devastating situation, but not from now on, but since 1990, and no one has been able to put an end to it. These things have not improved, and this is about the services it provides to state authorities, or to the judiciary. The truth in the Law on Prosecution matters are here, in the Law on Criminal Procedure things have been changed there, so these transactions are precisely the basis of the Law on Criminal Procedure that others can do not only post, but, of course, on this condition that they provide a service throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia, but that is not the case under the Law on Prosecution. One report from the former President of the Municipal Court in Zagreb testifies to an alarming situation, where we really must all think carefully because this is where the state money is spent, and could be used so much more usefully. Namely one, almost one-fifth of the judiciary budget is spent on postal services and those who must go to all recommended, there are prices high, several times the delivery failed. In some cases, it's not rare, and it's ten times. These are direct costs which are postal, you can think of the indirect costs of calling witnesses, parties and so on, but when it is not delivered neatly then the procedure cannot, of course, begin, or carry out the action. So on the post office, on its service, these reserved services depend on the good part and the success of the work of the judiciary. It's one serious segment. We have a big problem. We've all been particularly involved in procedures to simplify that delivery, what it's like to make it more efficient. Of course, there are also parties that avoid, but sometimes, or often, postal officials participate in it. This is evident to you in certain cases that appear before the court, where judges are powerless in such a situation where the party testifies, we were together, he handed it to me, he refused to deliver. The mailman came back with an unsettled shipment. Unfortunately, even this other situation is competitive in these other proceedings, only in this criminal proceedings did it not give adequate results which they began to act as well, therefore only and exclusively according to their rules, but not under the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Law on Criminal Procedure. The question arises as to how the education of these postal officials, suppliers, is that it is not enough for them to act in accordance with the Law on Administrative Procedure and the Law governing the proceedings before the courts. This is very important, in order to prevent, therefore, abuse, manipulation and simply, that in such a way one uncompromising and very expensive way would not compromise the state bodies. Because the other party and generally people don't care why, who's to blame, why delivery isn't right. Until then, it had to be reacted that the delivery even goes through a public notary or that the courier services in the court itself are being used. However, there is a post office somewhere, i.e. in the largest number of cases in such delivery, postal services are inevitable. And that's why it's very important to have control of the quality of these services increased because they're losing large, I say big, big funds. You see, we can't come to an absurd situation, that this government is facing that problem, too. Therefore, although the Law on litigation has been amended, which has simplified the procedure to this extent, it seems that the delivery problems still continue. Until an absurd proposal, please, which the Government is now proposing, in particular, the Ministry of Justice that future parties will be able to inform themselves of the proceedings before the court. So, by the way, the mail itself. It's an absurd one situation, so you just wouldn't believe it if someone had thought of it. But apparently, it seems again because of an inadequate, inadequate treatment and an inadequate service in this particular segment. Often delivery is done and in a way to leave, therefore, what is quite permitted for the other letters in the recommended consignment, but not for the court's letters. It is unacceptable to leave only a notice and that the party is believed to have been notified. In fact, there is a whole series of provisions that postal officials, suppliers, must educate. On the 10th, there are provisions in individual procedures that speak precisely about the accuracy of the court's delivery. Have we ever heard of judicial writing beatings on doors? And that's what the Law of Prosecution and the Code of Criminal Procedure predict. So, as a commitment, but we're just coming across those yellow notices and the notified didn't ask. This is not a delivery done for the court, and the mail feels that it has done its duty and then the court again does what? He delivers it again because for him it's a messy delivery, which it is. So to make one call at 10 calls, and I don't know what it is now, or 15 kuna was back a few years ago. Then you can think about one delivery as much as it is. And that, each one is such an object. So, the defeating data is that 1/5 of the total budget for the judiciary, that's all your expenditures are material, that's all capital investments, that's all there is and that's what's being financed from that ministry. So you can imagine what this huge amount goes to the post office. And then again, so we're turning one state money into another, and nobody's happy. And so, please, here, in this, to take special care of this, maybe nobody's paying attention right now. Previously, the Presidents of the Courts specifically turned their attention, whether through the Ministry or through the Government, I don't know if anyone was directly speaking to you. But certainly, this is one big problem, but first of all, I would say, it does not come out of evil intentions but about necessity, or it is necessary to educate them specifically about the delivery of judicial letters and administrative letters so that these things don't happen, or that these costs are minimal. It's government costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66355	Thank you very much. Does Mrs. Bencic want a brief look at the end? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66356	I would finally thank you for the discussions because they are certainly very useful for the future work of the council. As far as surveillance is concerned, I would like to mention that monitoring the Council is given to amendments and additions to the Law on Postage of July 2005. So, before that, there was no control of the Council's jurisdiction and clearly that we immediately joined the organisation of these services and overseers. And I can say we're already on our way. So, in 2006, we're already on surveillance and today it's on, the supervisor's at work. So we've already done a few companies, but I haven't talked about it since, clearly, it didn't start until 2006. Of course, now that I listen and know the same from practice, experience, we all know that there are a lot of these mistakes in doing these postal services, but now, to determine just all the irregularities we can do, we should certainly have a little more supervision than just one person. Clearly, we will work to strengthen this service, and I say again, everything will depend on the resources from the state budget because unless we have increased resources, then we will not be able to hire people and do this job properly. Of course we're going to work hard and we're trying right now. I'm saying, this has been, last year, mostly, we've connected in it with all the institutions and bodies that we benefit very much from. And only, I think the most useful thing is certainly we can have from foreign regulators, European regulators. And so we're going that way, and now in this year, that cooperation is going to deepen, and clearly we're going to be working on all these other problems that are expecting us. Clearly, for now it is only universal services, as you have heard, only the Croatian Post Office, no one has contacted us yet. We'll see if it happens this year or next and then next year I hope that our report will be richer, more comprehensive, and I think it will give you a little bit more information on the postal market itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66357	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66358	Next. Annual report on the work of the Post Office Council for 2005 I am voting on the following conclusion: an annual report on the work of the Post Office Council for 2005 is hereby adopted. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 87 votes for, 3 abstentions, the proposed conclusion was accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66359	We move to - Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace mission in Afghanistan (ISAF), from 16 August 2005 to 1 March 2006. In accordance with point 3. Decisions concerning the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in a peacekeeping mission in Afghanistan have been submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the material by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the report at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Defence Minister, Mr. Berislav Roncevic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66360	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The participation of members of the Croatian Armed Forces in the peace mission in Afghanistan ISAF began in February 2003 when the first national contingent was sent. Since then, members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia have been continuously participating in a peacekeeping mission to send up to 50 members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia was invited to increase the number of participants in the mission and the Parliament decided on 1 July 2005 to increase the number of participants in this peacekeeping mission to 150 members by the said decision, to authorise the Government of the Republic of Croatia to determine the duration of rotation, number and organisational structure of members of the armed forces for each rotation and to establish the government's obligation to report every 6 months, or after the completion of the contingent on the state of the mission and the work of members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in this peacekeeping mission which I am now submitting to you. The report refers to the tasks and obligations of the 6th Contigence of Armed Forces, who carried out their work in the Afghanistan Peace Mission and represented the Republic of Croatia from 16 August 2005 to 1 March 2006. The 6th Contigence of the Armed Forces was numbered by 54 members, and this was the leadership of the military police team 42 members, two staff officers, 4 members of the Sanitation Team at Capovna Airport, 3 members of the national intelligence team at ISAF headquarters and 3 members of the national support team. The Verhaus chamber houses most members of the Croatian contingent, and four members of a combined Sanitation Team within the US-Adriatic Charter countries, together with members of Albania and Macedonia's armed forces, were at the Capovo International Airport as part of the Greek Sanitation Unit. There were expected to be terrorist attacks during the operation of this contingent due to possible dissatisfaction with the election results that took place on 14 November 2005, two suicide attacks with auto bombs, one attack remotely activated by an explosive device on ISAF forces and minor individual incidents. The holding of a constitutional session and the start of the new parliament's session called for a special additional engagement of all ISAF land and air forces in order to achieve an adequate level of security due to numerous announcements of major terrorist attacks to destabilise and prevent Parliament's establishment. An additional increase in violence by roadblocks in the city and the deterioration of the security situation in Kabul was observed following the publication of the disputed cartoons of the prophet Muhammad. At the same time, weather accidents have sometimes made it difficult to carry out regular tasks for ISAF members. Members of the Croatian... The team worked in the Greek military hospital’s reception and emergency hospital at Kabul airport and provided secondary demining and helicopter-injured insurance services where necessary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The combined and medical teams of the US-Adriatic Charter countries are on 24-hour alert for the needs of helicopter transport injured. At the end of the 6-month rotation, the security situation in Kabul deteriorated significantly compared to the security situation during the stay of the previous 5th armed forces contingent on the peacekeeping mission. With this deterioration, the importance of having all types of armored vehicles in the mission has been further expressed. All forms of attack during 2005 have increased multiple compared to 2004 which is explained by the expansion of the ISAF mission to the east of Afghanistan. The costs of the 6th Contigent of our armed forces are still being determined, and are being over-estimated on the 17 million kuna circus, which is part of the planned budget at the position of the international peace mission. Armed forces during their stay in the ISAF mission have shown superior training to carry out all the tasks set before them. Compared to other members of the Kabul multinational brigade and the state of the multinational military police, they have significantly more practical experience. All headquarters officers have done their duties neatly in ISAF and Kabul's multinational brigade. Members of the medical team received an excellent rating for hospital work and for the performance of all tasks and cooperation with other teams and staff of the hospital. Although senior commanders of the Croatian military police contingent have given high marks the opinion of the 6th Contigence Commander of the Armed Forces so that members of the Croatian contingent can achieve even better results if they have more modern equipment. This specifically concerned the need to obtain armored vehicles which gentlemen MPs can gladly inform you and that it has been resolved and special equipment of armored vehicles has been sent to Kabul for the needs of field work by military police officers. Members of the sanity team used Greek military hospital equipment in their work. Observations on the ground as well as analysis of other countries that send their troops to the mission suggest that it would be more effective and more favourable for participation to last 4 months because it would reduce fatigue and fall in concentration. A 6-month rotation that would include the use of days off would be more complex and much more expensive. Since, outside the time covered by this report, the further contingent is referred to in accordance with the parliamentary decision, it will be able to monitor further work on the mission in accordance with the Assembly's conclusion and, if necessary, propose a different duration of rotation to the Government. In view of the facts presented in connection with the participation of members of the 6th Contigence of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace mission in Afghanistan, it can be concluded that this contingent as well as all tasks previously assigned has been carried out in a responsible and professional manner by contributing to its participation in the achievement of the mission's ultimate objective. The individual incident of the loss of personal weapons was investigated, operated and found that it was not an attempt to obtain non-acquired property benefit, but was a classic disregard sanctioned by a strict procedure and compensation for material damage. A significant and high assessment of our members' contributions to the peace mission in Afghanistan promotes the reputation of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia as well as the international position of the Republic of Croatia, so I suggest you adopt this Report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66361	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, President Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66362	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security at the 69th session held on 25 May 2006 discussed the report on the participation of members of the Croatian Armed Forces in the peace mission in Afghanistan. In the opening statement, the Government of the Republic of Croatia presented to the members of the Committee a report concerning the tasks and obligations carried out by members of the 6th Contigence of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace mission in Afghanistan from 16 August 2005 to 1 March 2006. The government's representative states that the 6th Contigence of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia consists of 54 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and 5 civilians, 2 diplomats and 3 police officers. It further points out that members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia during their stay in the ISAF mission have shown very high training and professionalism in the performance of all tasks and that their participation in the peace mission in Afghanistan promotes the reputation of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia as well as the international position of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee supported the President of the Republic of Croatia's position and assessed that this contingent had carried out its task in a responsible and professional manner by contributing to the reputation of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. Following the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Report on the participation of members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace mission in Afghanistan from 16 August 2005 to 1 March 2006 in the text as proposed by the applicant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66363	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66364	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary! Here, a few brief comments. First and foremost, it is a summary and correct report on the participation of members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace mission from 16 August to 1 March. It's time to stay VI. Contingent. Certainly when we talk about this report and when we talk about the role of armed forces in this peacekeeping mission, then we must not forget our diplomats. Certainly their task is very complex and extremely important, it should be respected, it should be mentioned, so it should be considered when we have a report like this in the Croatian Parliament in the future to say something about the work of these people, especially those who work in the so-called The provincial reconstruction teams. Also, about our officers regardless of the fact that in any case the most important part of this mission, the most responsible belongs to the Ministry of Defence and to the representatives of the Chief Staff and the troops of the Chief Staff. Certainly, since the weight, the importance of this task, which these people are doing there in very difficult, complex conditions in every respect, I am very often aware of, and here I will point out, are in my opinion the best ambassadors of the Republic of Croatia abroad. When a person sees the scope of their international contacts, their daily international work in different bodies and extremely important and sensitive international operations, their role in the cable multinational brigade, their role and the tasks they perform in the ISAF command in different positions and in very high positions. Perhaps you didn't even know that one of our diplomats was no less the adviser of the NATO High Representative... Of course, among all these people, it may not be right to single out any particular ones because they all really do their best under the given circumstances in the given job, but I will certainly point out our medical team that may be less known. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The other day they pointed out to me you need to commend these people. Unfortunately, three weeks ago or something maybe a day more, the last days of the Italian troops leading the ISAF mission were killed by three Italian soldiers, several were more seriously wounded, and during the intervention, representatives of a medical team at the Kabul International Airport had a very important, significant and courageous intervention that was recognised and therefore were particularly commended. The jobs carried out by our military officers are related to the training of local Kabul police units, which are in line with all those who judge the situation in Afghanistan, one of the most important tasks. The Afghan National Army is mostly doing its reforms, stronger, and Americans pay special attention to their work. However, under today’s conditions police play an important sensitive role, and therefore their training in which our military officers are involved is very important and important. I'll try to be very brief. The minister stressed the assessment of the security situation in Afghanistan is something that is unpredictably unpredictable from day to day. That's even changing from the area in the area. It is usually said in the north that it is safer, but it is also changing and therefore certainly further safety for our employees should be given special attention, it is also related to what the minister emphasized the vehicles. Of course, better quality vehicles with regard to the character of the task, especially the enlargement of the task, especially the task that is related in that middle part of Afghanistan, etc. I hope that the future or very soon that part of the logistics demands that these people expect will be quickly resolved in an appropriate manner so that they will not be in a position to borrow funds from other contingents. The quality of life and social activity, it is mostly in this camp of Verhaus satisfactory, but in other parts it will not be as good as normal and logical and the people who come to this camp come in the seventh or eighth rotation, inherit all the good and positive things that were done in the meantime. The need certainly is not specifically given here to the appropriate and their medical report. Certain health symptoms and problems encountered at the level of the entire mission are certainly warning of possible problems with a smaller number and certain consequences, and I would rather not talk about it anymore. At this time in Afghanistan is the strongest thing that is related to the harvesting of maca, which is certainly the most important task because the Afghan economy is solely and exclusively based on that type of work. It's a particularly important part of the reality of today's Afghanistan. Of course, when we talk about a report of a particular rotation, it might be good, given that it is the first report to have some information about what future tasks are. The 6th Contingent report was completed 3 or 4 months ago. The 7th contingent is in the performance of its tasks, and very soon there is an expansion of our mission that will be very demanding in any case. More demanding than these have been so far and therefore, in future reports, it might be good under one of these 13 points to dedicate a few words to what is to come as regards the participation of the Croatian contingent which is now significantly increasing. That's not what I'd like to talk to you about. Here's what I'm going to conclude: well, briefly, summed up, useful report. Important for the Croatian public. Hopefully we'll have similar reports in the future, reports without what we wouldn't want to see anyway. Thank you very much. The HDZ Club supports this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66365	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66366	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The club of representatives of the HNS will, of course, support this report, but this is an opportunity to discuss a little bit on this topic of such reports and their purpose or way of making them as useful and better for the participation of the Republic of Croatia in peace missions and, of course, for the work carried out by this Croatian Parliament. We did when we made a decision in it and laid down a provision whereby every six months they would report on the work of the mission. And now the question of rationality is that of our decision. I mean, if we're going to have eight hundred members of the armed forces in various kinds of missions, and that could be a few of these kind of missions like Afghan. If every six months we're going to have reports for each of those missions, then we could have six or eight or I don't know how many reports, and by law we have another full report. So it makes sense if it's really something very, very dangerous. If missions are very dangerous and it was an emergency when we put that provision in place, but the question is whether it is rationally available to the Ministry of Defence and the energy of the Croatian Parliament. I usually represent the thesis from this speaker about the greater role of the Croatian Parliament, about the frequent supremacy of the government over it. But here, in some ways, I'm trying to see if there's any sense in this report that often, especially if what this report is going to be, is going to be routine? From this report we couldn't at least say something about it, we tried to draw some conclusions or was suggested by the Government, and I don't think the Croatian Parliament will do it either. It should be said that, and that is clear from this report, these reports make sense if appropriate assessments and conclusions are made on continuing to participate in the peace mission. We're missing out on this report. We're not talking about what should be changed on this peace mission? And what experience from this peacekeeping mission could contribute to our general philosophy or to the policies of peace missions. We don't talk about it here, so in that sense this report is not educational. We don't learn anything from him about what we should do next? In the end, it's about how our soldiers are poorly equipped. Well, it would be good if that's how this report's about better equipment. Quite a part of our troops that aren't well equipped. If we want that report to make any real sense. We will help our soldiers if we properly equip them, not if every six months here, routine reports pass through the Assembly without actual results that would improve the work of our missions. Otherwise, it is very clear here that this is a high-risk mission, and it is clear that this level of risk is increasing. If you look at the activities of our soldiers, if you hear reports of that, there was recently information in our media that 60 Taliban were killed in Afghanistan, and where they were killed most likely by each other. This is about activity. The activities of our soldiers are listed, so we're talking about curbing crime, escorting money. So all those operations that can, of course, and which are in that country that are unstable in each part of it, whether it's more stable in the north, in the south a little less, are very dangerous actions and of course they can cause even the most unfortunate events as it says here in this report. Two ISAF, German and Portuguese members of the ISAF died very recently, and several of them were injured more easily, such as Greek and Portuguese soldiers. And here it's not said at all because it's not ISAF, it's another peace operation, about the great victims suffered by American soldiers there. Recently, there was a report of the crash of two helicopters in one day. One British and one American helicopter. Therefore, these are very, very dangerous things and we in the Croatian Parliament, and this climate doesn't seem to exist to me, we often deal with them unseriously, we also have to face these opportunities beyond any policy that would somehow try to use it for some political positioning. We are here, the level of our innocuousness shows one decision that we made a few months ago when we made the decision to refer 150 members to the expansion of the mission in Afghanistan, and then a few minutes later, a much more benign decision has fallen in this House that has already been prepared where actions at the Ministry have been prepared, on the maintenance of military exercises that are much, much less dangerous and can, of course, be as well as these missions and enable the strengthening of the Croatian military and what is called military diplomacy, defensive diplomacy. In fact, military exercises in some ways strengthen and promote relations between the countries involved in these exercises. So these are the things that, of course, we should agree very clearly here. I think it's good here to talk about a humanitarian action that will sponsor the education of Afghan children. It would be good if every mission of ours, I, of course, gave it to the Minister, or members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as an idea that every mission of ours, especially in these very poor countries and regions, has some aspect of humanitarian character. One of ours in Eritrea, for example, can build a school for a village where it works. These are the symbolic means of several tens of thousands of dollars, and they make a very good contribution to our country's affirmation. We have so much money that we can do it. And then, of course, our mission and the participation of our soldiers get one additional character, it gets better received, and some very real dangers and difficulties can be avoided through that humanitarian dimension. And as I repeat myself about poor countries would be, it's not big resources, I suggest that the Ministry of Defense build one such goal. In the whole plan that each of our missions will be followed even more significantly and by some humanitarian dimension which, of course, will not cost much, will not burden the mission. And the gains from this can be greater than from the mission itself, sometimes especially if the mission is not particularly active, because such circumstances are on the ground. Here, that's what I'm suggesting. This is the first report. It's what it is. So it's routine. But I suggest that the next report of this type, so these regular reports always contain some proposal that should be done. Here it could be a proposal to equip a part of our unit. It is not nice to write, and it is not nice to hear that our members of the sanitary team used mostly Greek military equipment in their work. Why wouldn't all our teams be properly equipped? And we should make plans here which is our priority and what should be done in that sense. And those reports will make full sense. If they are followed by proposals to improve the participation of our soldiers in these missions. And more importantly, there is no speech about it here, and that is what structure of the peace activities of the Republic of Croatia do we want to have? The minister recently said, and that is probably the official fact that in our full range of NATO participation, the Republic of Croatia will have about 8 hundred soldiers on peacekeeping missions more or less permanently, with rotations clearly. We haven't made a decision, it would be good if the minister told us something about what we would really like the structure of those eight hundred soldiers. Will that be what we're best at? Or will it be what someone else, no one else will want to take? It would be good to plan, design the structure of all our peacekeeping missions, use our advantages, our experiences. We'll get more affirmative there, and here we'll have less costs and less effort to create one quality mission. And it would be good to sell, or give, experience, knowledge and intelligence, not just people. Of course, that depends, on our options, our advantages, they're great because of the direct experiences we've had in the war depends on what our mission will be. But that's what we have to fight for. And in order to fight, you need to know what you want, you have to have a plan. There are countries, for example, I have, in my practice, met with the fact that they are building their peace activities in the world exclusively in Polish hospitals. It's not simple, of course, it's very expensive. But it affirms them and instead of having soldiers who will come there on a dangerous line of battlefields or somewhere near a dangerous area, they affirm their country by peaceful participation through Polish hospitals, bigger or smaller. The Republic of Croatia, in this sense, also has something to offer and it would be good, therefore, that already now, at least it should have started before working in this sense, the military police we decided at first are not enough, should go further than that. We should therefore make this kind of clear plan, and these reports will make sense, I repeat, when we have discussed with them what kind of final structure of the peace missions of the Republic of Croatia we want to have, we can achieve when we are in full drive. We have about two hundred soldiers today, counting these 150 that will go to Afghanistan and about seven or eight more missions, so about two hundred in total. But when it is 8 hundred soldiers then it will be a full and greater financial burden and a much greater danger I fear, but of course a much greater possibility of affirmation of the Republic of Croatia and that should be approached with full attention. So, the Croatian People's Party's Representatives' Club, the Liberal Democrats will support this report. But I repeat, it would be good for the next reports to always contain one dimension, which should be improved so that our soldiers are safer and our contribution is greater. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66367	Thank you. On behalf of the club HSP, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66368	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. So you are probably familiar with the position of the Croatian Party Club for the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace mission in Afghanistan. Namely, the HSP club was also against sending members of the Croatian Armed Forces to the Afghanistan Peace Mission in February 2003. In particular, he was opposed to sending an additional number of members of the Armed Forces, meaning extending the role and tasks of the mission of our members that we brought in July 2005 and for several reasons. The first thing is that it is now evident that the peace mission in Afghanistan belongs to the most risky and demanding peacekeeping missions in which members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia participate. The current part of the engagement means members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the Kabul area, i.e. the Kabul airport area, given what is happening in Kabul and what is happening is less risky than those areas where each day fights with the Taliban and where we have heard and we know from day to day that there are many victims on the Taliban side. Obviously, there are many victims and on the side, we have seen, both the United States of America and its allies. So what's going on here now? And this part of the mission means where now the Armed Forces are participating, which means more and more the character of military-police tasks from day to day is becoming more risky. We saw it two days ago, it takes a little spark to get to the whole rebellion. And now there's another variant going on, we're telling that additional part of the Armed Forces this summer, but he's not taking part in this risky mission, he's going, this mission where this extra part is going to take part and it's going to be the death mission. It's a death mission, it's this part of where you work in areas of cleaning the area, meaning from the Taliban and all those who don't recognise the government official in Afghanistan. And unfortunately, there is a very possible possibility that our members will be in a situation that, unfortunately, someone will die. And then there will be a whole other situation, and on the other hand we know for ourselves that the biggest problem of our members is the equipment of funds, military first of all. I'm talking about armored assets here. I mean, first of all, armored assets. We know when General Ćosic was in Afghanistan as a representative of the Croatian Parliament when the elections were held. Then he had to wait to go from one area to another to get the armored vehicle that came, which the Bulgarians gave. And now we're coming into a situation where this part of the Armed Forces that's going to go, he's going on a death mission, and if he's not well equipped, and so we're missing the proper armor, so we need to be aware of the facts, no matter what they're trained, they're trained military, they have experience from the Homeland War, and that's why our members are certainly interested above all in the United States and have such a level of respect and that kind of relationship with all of our other members, but let's not close our eyes and say that this part of the members who are now leaving is leaving, he's leaving on a super-dead mission, and if we haven't well equipped what can be expected. What can be expected because we know for ourselves what is going on, say, in this part take only a small parallel because the media is present. The Iraq area, but in the Afghanistan area where the daily struggles of the American forces and other members of the Taliban we don't know anything, the public is a little informed there. She's a little informed because a little who gets into the area. That's where we need to be aware, and we're coming back to the third for us to have an important situation. And that is that we must be prepared for the possibility of the terrorist attacks of Al Quaid and all of those other forces that they have openly told everyone about both Iraq and Afghanistan and everywhere else that they can be the subject of terrorist action. So that's another degree of responsibility for us here, both the government and everyone else. Because we ourselves know what it would mean, don't God, I say, if there was a terrorist attack in Croatia in the Croatian Adriatic area at the time of the terrorist season. Our tourism will collapse, and tourism is the part that brings out the current state budget and all this, which are economic problems and problems related to filling the state budget. Therefore, the HSP Club is strongly opposed and believes that this additional reference of members of the Armed Forces should be discussed once more because we are not aware of what and how it will happen and how it will happen. Because we know another thing ourselves in that case most fatal, it means when members of a peacekeeping mission have to get away, and we've had cases like this, from Somalia and everywhere else. You've seen it in movies, and we don't have the strength and resources to get our own members out. We have seen that for the journey there and for this part we use services either German armies or other armies, and imagine now the variant, you know, when there was a case in Somalia, the Americans picked up their own and left, these others were left in that area. Therefore, it is one part that we must bear in mind the same, that when we refer, and we refer to the most difficult part now, this additional part of the Armed Forces contingent, so that various situations can happen, and we alone, or neither the Ministry of Defence nor the Croatian Government can at some point provide adequate assistance to our members of the Armed Forces who are there for extraction and everything that should always be overlooked in such situations. And that's the situation where there's an additional contingent in this area, so it's no longer a military-police task, it's a purely military task, it's a field-cleaning participation, we don't have opportunities, we haven't equipped them properly or we can equip them, so it's adequate military equipment, armored and military equipment. And it's mostly a big problem that at some point we can't get these members out if the situation takes on characters like, say, the form of a peace mission in Somalia. Thank you very much, so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66369	Thank you very much. And finally, Minister, Mr. Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66370	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to take a quick look at the exposure. I repeat again, the Croatian contingent in ISAF does not act on its own, operates within the ISAF's total contingent. Technical conditions shall also be agreed before any reference to the ISAF command and to any partner countries. We don't need to send our hospital and not send every contingent. This time people are wanted specialists. Doctor, nurse or technician and driver of the sanity vehicle. And that's what we've been up to. There was no need to send a hospital there. I agree with Mr. Radoso in part that we must both work there and on some humanitarian action, but it is not part of the conclusion of this House because we are talking about the actions of members of the Armed Forces. What Mr. Radosh was talking about has this extra political dimension. Other resolutions will be involved, and the government is absolutely thinking about it. How to structure the Armed Forces? The conclusions of the NATO Istanbul summit up to 8% of the forces in the land component, deployed outside. Normally, we want as many people as possible in the so-called. The specialties we declared. We declared military police, declared work on engineering activities, and declared ABKO's work. Croatian soldiers do not participate in the so-called cleaning the ground. Mr Kovacevic used the term here that an additional contingent of up to 150 will participate in cleaning the terrain. If it was meant to act against the Taliban it is not true, because it is another mission, it is not an ISAF mission and Croatian soldiers do not participate in the mission. We are participating in ISAF according to Parliament's decision. So no field cleaning, if we're talking about this contingent. In the event of a merger of missions then there is a obligation and a need to come before this High House and make a political decision on this. Therefore, no field cleaning is at issue. We're not poorly equipped. We are among the leading countries regarding equipment. We want to send there and have the best. So when the commander here says we're better equipped, it doesn't mean we're poorly equipped. We will from now on be one of the few countries that has there on the use of armored vehicles. We've got military officers working in the field, outside the camp, and normally we want to equip them, and I'm stressing again that we've dealt with it. Our soldiers are now going to the checkpoints, going to regular assignments in armored vehicles, one of the few countries. What will be the structure of action in missions, of course the minister will very extensively inform you when he is here in this High House the long-term development plan of the Croatian Armed Forces. And as for the structure, of course we want to have as few dangerous tasks as possible, but I am free to say Mr. Radosh, although I am aware that I will cause your reaction. In 2002, it was an offer for Croatian soldiers to participate with a reinforced hour between 250 and 300 people on a peace mission in Cyprus. We could fill in an almost tourist peace mission, almost on a tourist peace mission and have that quota. Unfortunately, however, the Minister's office did not accept the main headquarters's initiative then, and we are not, we are not participating in the peace mission. We could take the chance on an almost harmless, almost tourist peace mission we could have 300 people, politically it would have been welcomed, but the opportunity was missed. It's a missed opportunity. We're not participating in a combat mission, that's what I want to tell you clearly here. We participate in training structures, we participate in support of demining and we participate in what has been done so far in the work of the military police. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66371	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Jozo Radosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66372	I would like to correct what the minister said regarding the participation of our troops in Cyprus. That way of speaking, I don't know if it went from the minister's office or the minister's office, but let's let it go now. Taking part in peacekeeping missions especially big is never just our decision. It's always a mission, especially if our forces are relatively small, and the company is a relatively small force for such large missions, then it depends on a number of other combinations that you can agree with those countries that run the mission. Therefore, if such decisions had gone out of the cabinet of the minister, it was the fruit of forced international circumstances, not the defence ministry's declaration that the mission to the Republic of Croatia was not needed. In addition, to send a one-hour mission to Cyprus except that it is harmless or less dangerous, it is high costs and the minister must pay attention to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66373	Thank you very much. It's 18 hours and 3 minutes now. As we are informed, there may be a disturbance here in the closure of the Mesnica Street and we will interrupt the session and continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. by discussing the report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development for 2005. Goodbye! Thank you. SESSION Interrupted at 18.05 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-31-0.u66374	Next. Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in a peacekeeping mission in Afghanistan from 16 August 2005 to 1 March 2006. I'm voting on the next conclusion. A report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in a peacekeeping mission in Afghanistan is hereby adopted from 16 August 2005 to 1 March 2006. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 84 votes for, 3 abstentions, 2 against the proposed conclusion.
