ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-10-0.u56268	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have dismissed the Minister of Justice and I propose today a new Minister of Justice in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I will point out briefly, although this is not the topic of the agenda, because the topic is trust for the new minister, but in the party that was with us in the coalition in the government, there has been an identity crisis, because it cannot be a minister until noon at a press conference or five days to be a minister, and on Saturday at the press conference to attack the same government where you are a member, because there are enough opportunities to discuss this, that in the consultations of ministers, with the Prime Minister, the vice president, if there are any problems. It is nothing new in Croatian politics, it was faced and passed by the government, therefore, and since it is an important portfolio, it has become a burden for the government and for the resort. That's why I'm proposing today to this High House to vote in confidence with the new minister, Mrs. Anna Lovrin. She is, as you know, a parliamentary representative, the chairman of the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament. Otherwise, she graduated from high school in Zagreb, the Faculty of Law in Zagreb, passed a judicial exam in 1993. There's a representative in the Parliament. She was the mayor of the city of Zadar, deputy mayor of the city of Zadar, secretary of the city, head of legal affairs, so she always ran all legal affairs. We can say that his whole life deals with law, he speaks English, he has four children, and he certainly deserves our trust with his work in the Croatian Parliament, the Committee for Justice and his work in the City of Zadar. Since judicial reform is one of the most important objectives of my government and this parliamentary majority, since the reform of the judiciary was presented on 23 December 2003, that is when we got the trust of this House of Commons. We continue with this reform even better and even more dynamically. So it can be even better and even more dynamic. This is also one of the preconditions for all Croatian citizens to be just and have the possibility of both fair and fair in all legal proceedings. But let me not forget that, of course, it is also one of the criteria for Croatia's entry into the European Union. We want to be a modern country, we've done a lot on that plan in these two years. It will be even more in the next two years, and I call on this High House to trust the new minister I propose, Mrs. Anna Lovrin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-10-0.u56269	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HSP club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-10-0.u56270	Dear Mr. President, Prime Minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. We at the Croatian Party Club of Rights do not dispute the fact that the Prime Minister has the right to choose his associates, that the Prime Minister has the right to change some of his associates during the term of office, or to propose the appointment of new associates. We do not object that the Prime Minister has relieved the current minister. Our reason for this is clear, we pointed out multiple times, and it is related that the Croatian state is obliged to take systematic legal, political, diplomatic measures to challenge and bring down monstrous Hague indictments. Unfortunately, that portfolio was in the custody of the justice minister. What is the best thing about this situation is the fact that all our generals are having a hard time getting the documentation they need in defense. Not only in the defense of themselves, but in the defense of the Homeland War, in the defence of the Croatian state. That is why we have repeatedly turned our attention, and in doing so has the Minister of Justice who kept saying that all the documentation was collected, that everything is done and that all our generals can get what they need immediately and in due time. Unfortunately, it's not like that. I can give you more examples like that. One example is that one of our generals asked the Ministry of Justice to deliver to him all the international contracts that the late President Tudjman made during the Homeland War in the conduct of his duties. You know how much that general got? He won 2 times after 6 months only 4 such contracts, and such contracts have 227. They could never get a decision on that, about recognition when the Croatian state, or the late president, confessed to Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are also countless cases like this. And that's why we have nothing against you replacing the minister. But, Mrs. Lovrin, if you don't do this job right, and that's your most important job, make sure that... Look out, that's the part where we insist. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] The part about finally taking legal and political and diplomatic measures. And to prepare the advice of a friend of the court and to take all other appropriate measures. If you're ready to do that, we'll back you up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-10-0.u56271	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Frano Piploić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-10-0.u56272	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. So he would correct the incorrect quote of counterpart Kovacevic, who, in fact, accused the minister of hiding documents in some way, that these documents were difficult to come by. Madam Minister, she didn't have those documents. She did her job as much as she did and knew. Let's have dignity now and not be accused of it, which is why it's not her fault.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-10-0.u56273	For the HSS Club, Honorable Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-10-0.u56274	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear Prime Minister, Mr. Minister. I would like to thank HSP for explaining to us instead of the prime minister the reasons for replacing the minister so that we are now absolutely certain what the reason was. It's probably also a conscience wash to support both the HSP proposal and the replacement and the confirmation of the new minister, but we'll see that very soon. However, Mr. President of the Parliament, I remind you that three weeks ago, the HSS Club asked a question, or a request here in the Parliament, for you to speak to the Prime Minister so that he could come to the assembly and explain to us what was going on in the government with the generals, or the Hague. Because this is now a replacement of thesis. The minister is responsible for the generals, for The Hague as the HSP explained, and the government is not guilty of anything. Well, it's government business, not one minister. And so, after three weeks, you promised to talk to the Prime Minister and that he would probably come to the Parliament. He was gone, he came today when it came to the shift. Now I don't know if you haven't spoken to the Prime Minister in the meantime, whether he might not have wanted to talk to you or if you don't want to talk to the HSS Club because we didn't get the feedback, even if you promised it. But the story is still exactly the same as it was three weeks ago, and it'll probably still be the same. We're not sure the generals will be defended by the best lawyers. We're not sure that money was provided for them. That's what I was talking about, that we're absolutely sure that they're not even provided with documentation, that they have to buy it on the market. And some generals, meanwhile, have said, following the demands of the HSS Club, that instead of in Croatia they will go to defend themselves in The Hague because they are likely to receive money for their defence. To date, we have no information from the government on the basis of which we would be sure that for those who gave the state maximum, the state wants to fight back in the same way. We want Croatian generals to defend the best lawyers at the HSS club, we want enough money provided for them, but we also want to know how much money is provided and how this payment is made. Here I expected to get such an answer from the Prime Minister in Parliament is probably the Parliament responsible for that, but I also thank HSP for giving us an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-10-0.u56275	Thank you. You did, but the truth is that you requested information from the Prime Minister about the defense, and I delivered your initiative and your proposal to the Prime Minister and informed him about it. This was essentially a form of parliamentary issue outside the current morning. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-10-0.u56276	Your Honor, Mr. President. I'm correcting an incorrect quote from an esteemed colleague, Pecek. I, on behalf of the HSP Club, did not say that only the minister was responsible, but I said that she was the most responsible, and your government was responsible because she was not doing anything about it either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-10-0.u56277	Thank you. I will now give my word to the Prime Minister Dr. Evey Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-10-0.u56278	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Pecek, I will apostrophe you as former minister, as was done by a respected representative of Kovacevic. As a former minister and as a representative, you must know that today's vote is not being discussed on the agenda item, it has already been done, the parliament is not discussing it. The parliament is discussing the appointment of a new minister, so we will not vote twice, since you are calling on a representative to explain something he will raise his hand twice today. Today we will only vote on our proposal adopted, thank you for adopting it on the confidence of the new minister. I gave the reasons for the resolution even though I shouldn't, because that's not the agenda item on the Minister's discharge. I'll do it again. The crisis of the identity of the Democratic Centre is the only and only reason why it has become a burden for both her and the government, because it cannot, I repeat, be a minister for five days, and the sixth day at a press conference as president of the party that is in coalition... To attack this government in which you have five days with the president and to make suggestions with everyone else and say that you had such similar cases in the past government, perhaps with our party. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-10-0.u56279	For the club IDS, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. ... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you are, the esteemed representative of Pacek on behalf of the HSS Club. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-10-0.u56280	Thank you very much. As usual, it is the former government's fault, but it would be well-respected Mr. Prime Minister that we do not read for the media the reasons why a member of the government should be resolved to explain it. I know that you have no such obligation, but it would probably be much better if we here in the Parliament had information and why ministers change, which is why the general's defense is not good, and which is why a lot of things should be said here, not through the media, because you did the same thing as the minister, you let that news go through the media to change it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-10-0.u56281	IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-10-0.u56282	Your Honor, Mr. President, the esteemed Prime Minister, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. I think at this point and all those in the opposition who attacked during last report on judicial reform, it may be wrong to attack Vesna Skare-Ozbolt today. Vesna Skare-Ozbolt wasn't a bad minister, she wasn't a bad minister, she did two, three things, I won't say they're revolutionary or they're extremely important, she arranged the garland, she improved the work of commercial courts, and it should be recognised, as it would be also fair to admit Vesni Skare-Ozbolt to the former minister, our future trust colleague that she was a big worker. Finally, you HDZ gentlemen know very well what kind of work she's done about peaceful integration in Eastern Slavonia, you have to give her credit. Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, former minister, has certainly had good relations with the media. We've known each other very well here for 10 years, but now the government of some banal information can hurt, it's almost incomprehensible to me. The biggest problem, however, would be if secret services were "processing" the minister of justice, as the Croatian public put it. If so by whose order? The government whose member, prime minister, Supreme Court, police, or did Mr. Karamarko do it on his own? If that's the case, then it's good if it's none of it, but if that's the case, then we're in big trouble like you said a few months ago because of, under the quotes of the "supervised follow-up" bishop, athlete, opposition politicians by the god's former government. What if it's Vesna Scare-Ozbolt?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-10-0.u56283	Comrade Cain, please, we are here to discuss a proposal for a vote of confidence to the new minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-10-0.u56284	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-10-0.u56285	That's what you take care of.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-10-0.u56286	None of us are naive to knowing what this is really about. It's not about our colleague Mrs. Lovrin, it's about Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. The only question is why it is leaving, which is why it is resolved, is this information in the Croatian public correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-10-0.u56287	Mr. Cain, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-10-0.u56288	It didn't cross every line.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-10-0.u56289	Don't abuse, I'll interrupt you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-10-0.u56290	You won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-10-0.u56291	I'll interrupt you by the Rules of Procedure for a reason to stick to the Rules of Procedure. The President may interrupt the MP if he does not stick to the Rules of Procedure. Under the constitution, the Prime Minister resolved a member of the government's minister of justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-10-0.u56292	And that's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-10-0.u56293	And we're not talking about it, we're talking about it because we voted in the agenda proposal to discuss the trust of the candidate for Minister Ana Lovrin, not the solution to the reasons for the resolution of Minister Vesna Skara-Ozbolt, who was resolved. Please, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-10-0.u56294	All right, Mr. President, even though I know it'll all turn out to be a big farce in the end. I agree that every government has the right to appoint and exchange its ministers. I don't even need to explain the reasons, but you'll still have to agree with me that it's not a simple shift, first of all because of the suspicion that Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, what the media is talking about "distributed" documents, or that it was followed on the other hand. The stories that he's late for some judicial reform now simply don't stand. They're stories for little kids now. Where the former minister could influence and the job will have to continue and the future minister, for example, arrange land services, has done so. That it will be able to improve the work of judges who are independent, untouchable, immeasurable in their functions for life clearly that not much can be done. Clearly, I'm not happy about this shift. I don't think it will speed up the processes in Croatia. I think it will slow down the processes in Croatia. This will not contribute to legal certainty in Croatia. On the contrary, it'll slow down. It won't make the government more functional. Just the other way around. It won't trigger trust in the government, just the other way around. So let's think about what it looks like here. I know the Minister may have made subsequent statements and brought oil to the fire herself, but she had to defend herself if the media in the way we had the chance to track her attack. What, over what, other than over the media? But I'll say it one more time. This doesn't contribute to the government's trust. This harms the government, although it is clear to everyone that the government crisis is not there, that it cannot cause any disturbance in the government, any movement on the political stage. But obviously what's going on isn't good. It's understandable that I who won't vote for Mrs. Lovrin want Mrs. Lovrin every good thing because I think it's all clear. ... I want to be honest, in my private and business life. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Because if she succeeds, then the government and the country as a whole will succeed, and we all care about that. I wish her every good, and don't impute anything else to me. But for the end of one more sentence because this makes less sense. It's not a problem when girls get good information. The problem is when girls get the bad news and you get the truth of what they're doing and they're demystifying someone's role. All in all, gentlemen, I think you share my opinion. True, you share my opinion. You know that what we're doing to some people we're doing wrong and I don't think we're doing the country a favor.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-10-0.u56295	Gentlemen, peace please. This is not about the debate on not trusting a member of the government, it's about the trust of a member of the government. So please stay that way and hold the debate. The HNS Club is a respected representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-10-0.u56296	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We at the Croatian People's Party Club certainly do not dispute the right both to the prime minister and the Croatian democratic community to change ministers in their government. But so far, more than two years have always been shown as one in which the most reforms and changes have been made in particular in the part of judicial reform, judiciary, grants, grant books, co-operation with The Hague and legal projects. The prime minister said the reason for Mrs. Scare-Ozbolt's resolution was the identity crisis, but I didn't quite hear if it was whose identity crisis it was. Whether DC, HDZ, Government or Scare-Ozbolt himself. Don't be nervous, I have a right to argue, to say what I didn't understand. If I didn't understand something correctly, the Prime Minister would correct me, there's no reason to be nervous. I am aware that, in the Rules of Procedure of our Parliament, we do not have the usual practice that in such cases, the candidates would not, at the beginning of the government's term of office or in the course of the resolution and the new candidates would address the Parliament. But I am convinced that, with the agreement of the Prime Minister, the candidate may address the Parliament. I'm only interested in one thing. A line of reform in the judiciary that has been implemented by the Croatian government for two or five months so far, and the Parliament has accepted through legal projects and others whether as a candidate for the new minister, Ms Lovrin continues this course or believes that in some of the things there should be more important turns, especially because we have several proposals for the government's laws at this session and concerning this resolution. Well, Mr. Prime Minister, kindly please, I repeat, it is not intended in the Rules of Procedure, and it is a pity that candidates cannot address Parliament, but with your consent, Mrs. Lovrin could probably answer only this dilemma that is very important to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-10-0.u56297	Proposer of Prime Minister Dr Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-10-0.u56298	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I thank both the distinguished representatives Caine and Lesar for the debate because they showed in their debate that I was right when I proposed to this High House Minister of Justice two years ago. Thank you for your grades on how well she did her job. So the trust you gave me back then was justified by me. I'm looking for trust again today, and I know that Anna Lovrin will do a better job, so when you trusted me then and today you gave a good score in the election, then I expect you to give me confidence in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-10-0.u56299	Two clubs, the club of representatives of HSLS, LS, DC, respected representative Ivan Chehok. Then, on behalf of the SDP Club, a respected representative of Ivica Racan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-10-0.u56300	Mr. President, Prime Minister, Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs! It is not disputed and no one is questioning the government's right as prime minister to elect ministers, to propose ministers to the Croatian government and to finally confirm them here. I believe that this right is linked to the overall actions of the Government and that each minister must act as a member of the Government as a whole. Simply, the government acts integrally or does not act at all if one member or if several members cannot work with others. I think Mrs. Skare-Ozbolt was a good minister, that she tried in different areas, in different segments of the judiciary to support, encourage, improve, speed up so much needed reforms, and I think that therefore we can all really discuss it with dignity and thank her for what has been done. However, on the other hand, there remains a fact that I am afraid that few individuals without the Prime Minister's support and without the support of all of us, including the entire Croatian public, but above all without the support of all in the judicial system, I don't think that anyone will be able to speed up judicial reform to the necessary speed that in the next 7 and 8 years, the practical judiciary from one system which in many parts of its part is a mess so that this system becomes a functioning system. I'll just remind you that according to the theory of law, philosophy of the right judicial system that is not effective can't actually be called in the right sense by the justice system. It is a judicial system, but unfortunately it is not a just system. I therefore believe that our task is primarily that the burden and burden of responsibility of Ms Lovrin, who takes over the ministry from a relatively successful minister, is precisely to speed up this judicial reform. I don't think this judicial reform is going to speed up the big strategies. It will not be accelerated by verbal declarative incentives. It will simply accelerate if, if I finally say the whole system in all my fields, it starts to act more efficiently and more quickly in all segments. Unfortunately, good can be done in the judiciary in Croatia. It is shown that it is possible to work effectively, but I say unfortunately it is not so throughout Croatia. It is shown that there are subjective weaknesses throughout the system, and therefore I think that good ministers can remove these subjective shortcomings, weaknesses, that they can in some way prevent several courts throughout Croatia from actually blocking the Croatian judiciary or in some way reducing the overall efficiency of the judiciary. So in thanks to the Minister so far, I really do think and I told my neighbor and colleague in the bench next to me, Mrs. Lovrin, that she really is sitting on a hot chair and sitting on a chair where she won't sit for long, not because we're going to change her, but because she's going to have to go all over Croatia to make this system faster and let me see that they're all... I'm especially glad Mr. Ivas is coming back because I won't have to worry about who's voting. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-10-0.u56301	SDP club respected representative Ivica Racan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-10-0.u56302	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, just a few words. I know that no coalition government, more coalition or less coalition government like this is easy. There's something I know. Everyone will solve problems in their own way in the coalition government. We can have a certain amount of understanding of the problems of this and this government as well as how to solve the problems that are in it. What is also clear today, however, is that the reasons for this move are not quite clear. They're not clear by what we've been able to hear in public for the last two, three days. They're not clear by what we hear today from this pay phone. From the prime minister to those who will obviously vote for this move and the government's proposal. Maybe once again we'll be in a position to hear the real reasons later. So I don't want to get involved in guessing reasons from this pay phone. What I'm simply saying is we didn't vote as we know it, we were in opposition and we're staying in opposition. We didn't vote to form this government, so we won't vote for a change in this government. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-10-0.u56303	Thank you. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-10-0.u56304	Dear Mr. President, Prime Minister, first of all, I am personally pleased that you have proposed to colleague Anna Lovrin for this responsible ministerial duty because, as part of the HDZ, few qualified macro-economyists, economists, but the competition of lawyers is excellent and I think it is well mentioned in my personal experiences and that Drazen Bosnjakovic and Emil Tomljanović and several people could do the job properly. However, we must be proud that we are in a position to discuss this House of the High and this subject with good reason. Yesterday you saw what it looks like in the Ukrainian Parliament when communists go to the Democrats to make it look a little more dynamic than in this House of Commons. And in that sense, Mr. Prime Minister, it will be very soon to strengthen the Council of Europe Declaration on the condemnation of communist totalitarianism in order to cultivate a sense of tolerance in this House of Commons. Due to another very important value in Croatian political culture, which is the value of the gratitude lost in Croatia, in Croatian public life I would ask you to express with a few words what you have shown at the principle level. Which is what former Minister Vesna Skare-Ozbolt did well because, indeed, as the distinguished colleague Ivica Racan said, it remains to hang in the air some sense that the reason you brought here is that the Democratic Centre is losing its identity is not a strong enough reason and we are mentally, you and I know each other too well. We know that's not a fundamental reason. In addition, disfellowshipping from the Government of Vesna Skara-Ozbolt will give her and the Democratic Centre that identity they lost. Now he will finally be able to act as a democratic party. In that sense, I would like to say the following thing: Vesna Škare-Ozbolt has done something in one area that was very difficult and sensitive and in relation to cooperation with The Hague tribunal and with other projects and I am sure and I will conclude that because of the cultured, cultured sense of gratitude as one of the fundamental values lost in Croatian society, there are only two, three words, perhaps four sentences of something good that has been done in that mandate to make it binding on the future minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-10-0.u56305	Replica, the respected representative Frano Piploić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-10-0.u56306	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, fellow Leticia would actually be replicating when he was talking about the identity of the Democratic Centre. The Democratic Center has its identity, it's what it is. It is that he had a painful and hard time creating him under difficult circumstances. I'm glad he mentioned this and encouraged the prime minister to say that something... He says some of the good things Mrs. Vesna Skare-Ozbolt did. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm glad I was the representative, her deputy in this House, that I was the deputy person who didn't tell the secrets of the state, who didn't give the papers to the press. I'm also glad that the person was worthy, so I'm proud of what she did and did. And the reasons presented by the prime minister are legitimate. The Prime Minister brought them out, and it is clear before you and before you, that you may be determined. The important thing is that the person of Vesna Skare-Ozbolt is not what was said through the media. Last week, we had a debate about the strategy, about the justice strategy, about judicial reform. There were a lot of quality words here, a lot of nice things being said about what she and that ministry were doing. Therefore, all of this should be kept in mind that when discussing someone, if you don't... to give him credit, however, for what he did well and for it to remain in some way and to confirm our democracy and respect the values of both those human and those of civilization. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-10-0.u56307	Thank you. And another final review, Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-10-0.u56308	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I thank everyone for reporting in the debate. I will also try to respond to the proposal of the distinguished representative of Dr Letica, including the representative of Mr Racan and the representative of Piplopic. Yes, absolutely in judicial reform has been done a lot and I'm proud of it and everything that Vesna Skare has been doing as part of my team for the past two years. But it wasn't her reform. It was a government reform I proposed two years ago. And that's no reason. And it's no other reason than what I said at first. So let's not close our eyes to what the entire Croatia and the world's public talk about. I respect Mr. Piplovic, I respect Mrs. Skare-Ozbolt and all members and DC and all other parties. But the fact that the politics led by the Croatian Democratic Community, which you have not only heard from me, you have heard in a series of comments from MPs, from politicians, that virtually certain parties are in a crisis of identity. We have even heard from the presidents and presidents of some parties that they have lost the field of action after such a policy of the Croatian Democratic Community that contributes to tolerance, which has contributed to the threshold of tolerance over the past two years and when it comes to minorities and the HAGG and the European orientation of Croatia, etc. So that's what this is about. I understand that and it's legitimately right about them. There's no other reason. She did her job well, but this has become a burden for her and besides, we are not ready, precisely because we are entering into this process of negotiations with the European Union in which judicial reform will be, getting more and more at stake. We cannot tolerate in the government and I as the most responsible man of this government that such relations and the issue of the identity crisis, I did not say. That's my grade, Your Honor. I don't mind DC, though. But that's my grade. To make it a burden for us in this government. There's no other reason. And there's, I think, a colleague of Racan's brought out some, he had a difficult situation, it was different, more coalition partners. But simply in my opinion, for my understanding of coalition action, I repeat again, to use that image that has been present for the last month, for five days to be minister, and on the 6th day to be the opposition leader who attacks that same government in which he sits, in which he can make suggestions for five days. That's the only reason. So Vesna Skare did her job well, and I know I made a good suggestion because it turned out. But I'm also convinced that Anna Lovrin will do even better this job because it's about a woman with great experience in politics, it's about justice. And finally, if you will, she's like the chairman of the Justice and Parliamentary Minister's Committee, which answers. Therefore, I ask for the trust of Mrs. Lovrin and thank you all for a truly tolerated debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-10-0.u56309	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We're going to vote. The proposal is to show Ani Lovrin's trust in acting as justice minister. Please, let's get on with it. You can vote. I'm asking for a result. I find that with 82 votes in favour, 15 abstentions and 24 against the vested trust of Anna Lovrin to act as justice minister. We should have sworn in before now. [[Applause.]] Take the oath. Article 208 The Rules of Procedure have been established by the way in which the oath is made, so the oath is said in a way: "I swear by my honor that I will exercise consciously and honorably the duties of a member of the Government, respect the Constitution, laws and legal order, and advocate all progress of the Republic of Croatia." Minister of Justice, Anna Lovrin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-10-0.u56310	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-10-0.u56311	Thank you very much. Congratulations. [[Applause]] Let's go to the next point: - Proposal for a decision on the establishment of the Space Plan of Nature Park Učka. The motion is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Legislative, Spatial and Environmental Protection, Agriculture and Forestry and the Committee on Tourism. You received the reports at the session. Minister of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction...... And where's the minister? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] She was just here. Secretary of State Davor Grouchy will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
