ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u68106	My colleagues and colleagues on the anniversary of Nikola Tesla will address the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public, President of the Parliament, Mr Vladimir Seks. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u68107	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Croatian Parliament decided on the 2006 declaration of Nikola Tesla in the Republic of Croatia, which in the 150th anniversary of his birth is dedicated this year to man, scientist, inventor of world importance. The Croatian Parliament is also the sponsor of this 150th anniversary, all events and events that take place this year in Nikola Tesla. And it was formed the Organising Committee, led by the President of the Croatian Parliament who carried out all the necessary actions to mark the 150th anniversary of the birth of Nikola Tesla with a crown event on July 10th of this year in Smiljan where one ceremony will mark the 150th anniversary of Nikola Tesla's birth. Not only Croatia but the whole world also marks the jubilee anniversary of the birth of Nikola Tesla, this wizard of light and electricity. In the Republic of Croatia, but also in many other cities of the world, symposiums, conferences and gatherings are held to honor Tesla, and UNESCO also declared the year of Nikola Tesla in 2006. In Croatia, Nikola Tesla is an opportunity for the full marking of life and the works of Nikola Tesla and not only as a scientist and inventor, but also as a prominent patriot who proudly emphasized his Serbian family and Croatian homeland. Tesla is a genius researcher, visionary and certainly a special person. He was born on 10 July 1856 in the small town of Smiljan in a priestly family who recognized his abilities and supported him by sending him to studies in Zagreb and Graz. He had been an inventor since his earliest childhood, finding inspiration in nature that surrounded him by having a role model in his mother, which Tesla wrote as if she had invented and designed many useful household appliances. Due to financial difficulties, the university fails to graduate, is employed in Budapest and the US phone company, and then in Paris. In 1884 he went to America in which he became one of the most famous people because of his inventions and special representations of these inventions. Tesla also worked on the construction of the first modern three-phase alternating power plant on Niagara Falls that was considered one of the world's wonders of that time. It stands next to Tesla’s monument today that does not shine at night to highlight his contribution to the world and the possible darkness that this world without Tesla would surround. His inventions and theoretical work at the end of the 19th and early 20th centuries created conditions for electrifying the world through a multi-phase alternating poisoning system, allowing mass production and industrial revolution. Tesla has laid the foundations or helped with his visions and research to develop radio technique, telecommunications, television, robotics, remote management, and other modern inventions that are found in his findings. After decades of tireless work he died almost forgotten and hungry in January '43. years in New York. Nikola Tesla is immortal today, has entrusted humanity with his inventions, inventions that have changed and promoted the world, and today they are the cornerstone of the latest technologies. His name and inventions that selflessly donated mankind remain a permanent role model in world science and culture. The man on which you can find information on over 290 thousand web sites, one moon crater, an asteroid, the measurement unit for magnetic induction was and remained large for the immeasurable contribution of science and mankind's progress. On July 10th, in Smiljan, we will mark the 150th anniversary of Tesla's birth and open a memorial centre of "Nikola Tesla" that will permanently remind the man who has dedicated his entire life to man and who has claimed to himself that he is not an inventor but a discovery of things that exist in nature, and that will be an incentive and inspiration to young generations to acquire the most precious assets of knowledge. Out of a series of brilliant Tesla thoughts, I'm going to mention one that is still current today: "The progress and development of man depends significantly on the investment. The most important product of the creative mind is invention. Its ultimate goal is to completely master the mind of nature and exploit its forces for mankind’s purposes.". Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you are all invited to join the celebration of the 150th anniversary of the birth of Nikola Tesla and the opening of the Memorial center on July 10th in Smiljan. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u68108	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70356	Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. On the agenda - Proposal for a guidelines for the application of contract forms of public private partnership (PPP) is proposed by the Government. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction. The Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70357	They're not interested in successful projects. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of this House. First of all, I would like to express my satisfaction that today we have on the agenda in the Assembly of Guidelines for the application of contractual forms of public private partnership. A few introductory words about a public private partnership. In Europe, this form of action was known some 15 years ago, perhaps 20 years ago, to have been a public private partnership. It is therefore that this model of construction or reconstruction of public buildings of infrastructure and social projects is used with the help and participation of the private sector. The state has seen that budgets in some such projects if they want to go much faster than they allow, are limited and, as is the case in Croatia, I think we can say that this is a good way to which we should go. Namely, if all we need in Croatia are schools, hospitals, retirement homes, school sports courts, halls, etc. And if we were to go the normal way, with normal funds that have counties, so units of local and regional and regional self-government and the central government budget, then it would take us some 25 years to build it all up. Of course, that is one possible way, but we think in Croatia, especially this generation of politicians, and here I highlight everything through all parties, through the entire political scene in Croatia that we can and should look for faster and more efficient construction and models. And that's why, about three months ago, we organised a meeting in the government with all Croatian mayors and all the mayors of the county centre where we discussed first and foremost to see if there was political will, whether there was a desire to move into a public private partnership in Croatia and we got the absolute agreement of all the mayors, all the mayors who said there was not only political will, but that there was also the necessity to move into this project of a public private partnership. Here I also want to say that several counties have already been working on this, that some mayors, some mayors have already had some projects and concrete steps in achieving certain such projects. We then formed a working group consisting of three representatives of the government, meaning Vice-President Polancec, Minister Šuker and Primorac and Mayor Bož Galic, Ivan Jakovčić, Radiir Cacic, Mayor Mršić, Obersmel and Šuice, and this working group worked, the task was to create within one month a guideline for the public private partnership. It took a little longer, we did it, that job was done. Why the guidelines? Why did it take longer? First, because we have seen that in many European countries, even outside European countries, I think about Israel, there is no law on public private partnership, and it would not be good for Croatia to go first into some kind of experimentation because it really makes it new, regardless of what practice exists in Europe and in cooperation in consultations and with the European Commission, with the Member States of the European Union that already do so. Except that there is one law in Germany, but still not until the end of it, we decided to go to the guidelines. These guidelines have been drawn up, I should have said for a little longer than a month that we have originally given as a task of the working group precisely because of consultations and in Croatia, but also with those countries that are already doing so. Therefore, the task of this working group was very clear, to analyse the legal frameworks that the public private partnership models are regulating in the European Union countries, to analyse best practice and to learn the experience of countries that have long gone on with this implementation. On the basis of these analyses, the Working Group developed guidelines. We reconsidered them at a meeting with the mayors and mayors, unanimously adopted them. There were some dilemmas, above all, about borrowing, so the units of local, or regional (regional) self - government that is a threshold. It was somewhere at the beginning of the speech 20, 25% and 30-35. We agreed that it could go higher, so 35% of the unit's income, that unit of local or regional self-government, the regional self-government came in the previous year. So you can go to that limit. So the goals that we want to achieve are very clear, and this is the negotiation and implementation of a number of projects, but before I say anything else, so after we've discussed everything in this working group at the meeting with the mayors and with the mayors where I really want and this is no demagogy, let's say that I thank you as the Prime Minister for all the mayors and all the mayors regardless of what party we came from, because it has proved that we can unite ourselves, that we can be together with important projects and that we have a party or a party or political orientation of secondary importance, and that it is important to do something good for Croatia and our citizens. And really this, it can be a successful Croatian story, together where we don't have to look at who he suggested and who will collect points or not political, that's irrelevant. It's important that we start building. And as one mayor said, this would really be if we agreed and the Parliament adopted, because our government therefore adopted guidelines but we wanted and agreed with everyone to adopt them and we all stood behind them so that we could move on to the project. So it could be Croatia's New Deal as they've already heard, so instead of 25 years to make it all in a few, five, six, seven maybe next years if we're really committed to that goal. Which is the purpose of a public private partnership. Negotiation and implementation of more projects in a very short period of time. Share of risks between private entrepreneurs and public authorities, with a view to effective and effective use of taxpayers' funds and exploiting greater efficiency of private entrepreneurs. Experiences and assessments, what is interesting in public-private partnerships from countries that have already done so, say in which these facilities have been built for many years, show savings in construction and later building management at 17-20%. How to where and how to which project compared to classical construction. So, already saving in the model itself, in the approach itself there is a minimum of 17% to 20% compared to the classical way. So I think the goal is ambitious, but if we all stand behind it, and there's a high, high interest in local self-government and regional self-government units, I think we can really cut those 25 years by 4 to 5 times. These guidelines contain definitions, there is Deputy Prime Minister and Secretary of State Polancec and Ivesic, who, if necessary, will answer and provide further information to the honourable gentlemen of the MPs. So, generally a public-private partnership, that expression refers to forms of cooperation between public and private partners, we have already said. The private partner is a domestic legal person in majority private ownership who, on his own or in association with another private company, concludes a public-private partnership agreement with a public partner. The public partner is a public-law person who makes a deal with a private partner. The public partner may be the Republic of Croatia through the competent ministry, government, public institutions and companies owned by the majority of the Republic of Croatia. A public partner may be a unit of local or regional, regional self-government, so county, cities and municipalities, public institutions, companies owned by local self-government units or regional self-government units. We have two basic types of public private partnership that come from these guidelines. One is an institutional form, the first is the type of institutional form. The other guy's a contractual form. These guidelines refer exclusively to contractual forms of public-private partnership, and for the sake of clarity, we specifically state the types of long-term contracts between the public sector and private partners that do not belong to specifics of exclusively contractual forms and are not considered a public-private partnership within the meaning of these guidelines. The most famous, therefore, exclusively contractual forms of the public-private partnership are so-called "the Public-private Partnership". a concession model which characterises the direct link between the private partner and the end-user of services which pays the private partner compensation for a service that may be subsidized by the public partner. And the other is so-called. private financial initiative. In this model, remuneration to a private partner is regularly paid by a public partner. Now, what is the process of choosing a private partner. It was a subject that was particularly addressed in the working committee. A private partner is selected through a public tender. So, and there was a dilemma, should there be a public tender, which will happen when a group of investors, an investment fund or even a private partner propose something to a city, can this initiative be accepted or should be put to the competition? We chose to go to the competition. So, regardless of what someone will suggest, what someone will have the first initiative, which perhaps some other, third, there would have no idea that something is going to be built, but we think we should go to a public tender, regardless of whose initiative it was. In the selection process of a private partner for public-private projects in the case of particularly complex contracts, competition dialogue will be used in accordance with the guidelines on public private partnership. Now, after that there is a contract to be signed and the public-private partnership contract is defined, so in these guidelines that you have received, all the elements that the contract must have are defined. We have further operational rental, rental of buildings and services paid by a public partner for construction built by model will be considered to be an operational rental in the same way as the rental of services and if a private partner under a public-private partnership contract necessarily carries the risk of designing and building a building and at least 1 of the following 2 risks. Risk of capacity building availability in terms of its volume and risk of variation in demand. This area, we have to say, we haven't, we haven't invented any new guidelines here, no new elements. This is simply transferred from the European guidelines and this area defined according to EUROSTAT rules. Taking over the building at the end of the contractual period. Therefore, the contract stipulates that the building is built, so that the building that will be built by a private partner at the end of the contractual time moves into the property of a public partner without compensation. So if the county, city, state, ministry concludes a public-private partnership contract privately for 25 years, after 25 years, the building passes into the property of the institution, the city, the county, the municipalities, the state without compensation. No charge. Now, we thought it would be good to set up a public-private partnership agency and in that agency, it would have several tasks. First of all, she would form, manage, register a register of public-private partnerships and these contracts. Therefore, all contracts in Croatia would be registered from that model. It would control tender and contractual documentation, it would work to improve the legislative framework for a public-private partnership of projects and would be an advisory body for public partners wishing to launch a public-private partnership. At this stage, and this is in agreement with the mayors and mayors, we would not go to a special agency but would form a special department for start-up within the Agency for the Promotion of Investments and Exports. When it develops and if a public-private partnership is launched then a special agency would go. By then, it would therefore be one Department for Public-private Partnership within the Agency for Promotion and Investment, for the promotion of exports and investment. What is the procedure for approving public-private partnership projects? The public partner must therefore determine whether he has sufficient fiscal capacity prior to the initiation of the procedure. If it plans to use the funds of decentralised functions to implement the model, it must first request the consent of the relevant ministry, and this has been the case so far. If several public partners combine available fiscal capacity on the same, they must sign a contract with clearly defined shares and sources of financing, and then launch a public tendering process. And as I said, local self-government and regional self-government units are allowed to enter into a public-private partnership agreement only until 35% of the budget revenue achieved from the previous financial year. I repeat this once again, at the request of mayors and mayors, we supported it, I personally supported it, I think it is ambitious, that mayors and mayors are absolutely responsible people who will take care not to get into financial difficulties. Finally, I would say that in the conditions of preparation for membership in the European Union, the public private partnership contributes to further market stability and privatisation of the state portfolio, which directly affects the maintenance of the trend of increasing foreign direct investment. I personally believe that this is another big step, one of our joint great successes if the Croatian Parliament accepts these guidelines, which I ask you to support everyone that this will be our joint success, that we do not wait 25 years and the next generation that needs to build up everything we need in all Croatian municipalities, cities and counties, to make this generation possible, and so money in Croatia on the financial market Thank God there is. Therefore, if we all turn to this project together, and I am particularly happy to look at the beginning of the work, congratulations to those mayors and mayors who are already on their way, but also with our agreement because we already said in the spring that we could move into these projects, I can see that some have already gone, therefore full support. With these guidelines we will regulate and the special weight will be if the Parliament accepts them, brings them, we will regulate this model, this public action, and I think we can really be optimistic, that we can really run Croatia and in this sense build these infrastructure objects that we all need. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70358	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70359	Mr. President, I would like to correct the wrong quote of the Prime Minister for which he is not at all responsible. About the construction of private public partnership, what should be called either the yuppie or the yuppie, or between 17% and 20% lower. Namely, research... in Australia, Thailand and Canada, they show that even construction costs are higher. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the trouble with this task force, Mr. President, is that there are few theoretically subdued economists there, next time call me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70360	The Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70361	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, respected MPs. The Committee for the Economy, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament at the 44th session held on 6 July 2006 discussed the proposal for guidelines for the application of contractual forms of public private partnership, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 28 June 2006. The Committee shall be within the meaning of Article 67. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed this proposal as a parent working body. In an exhaustive opening statement, the proposing representative explained that the main objective of these guidelines is to improve the quality of services of all the content it provides. On the basis of binding instructions from the EU body, the Proposer has chosen the legal framework of guidelines, not the Public Private Partnership Act, with a note that, regardless of the fact that these guidelines have a directing character in practice, it is practically impossible to consume any public private partnership contract without respect for them. The applicant's representative was required to explain institutionally and the EPP and contractually the EPP as the competition dialogue institute. He also pointed out the advantages of the public private partnership compared to the so far legally institutionalised way of providing services covered by the public private partnership. The main objective of the public private partnership is when it comes to building private capital investment facilities, noting that the private partner must bear certain risks. In the course of his further presentation, the applicant's representative explained what the operational lease had been, explained the public private partnership agency's mission in particular, stressing that the agency also agreed on an initiative to conclude a public private partnership agreement and the text of the contract itself and explained the obligation of the Ministry of Finance. Public private partnership is primarily intended for education and health care, noting that calculations have shown that public private partnership costs are about 17% lower than the costs incurred by the classic construction model. In the debate following the opening statement of the proposal, all speakers supported these guidelines by pointing to possible improvements in those guidelines as follows during the debate. The guidelines should specify tasks for which public private partnership contracts can be concluded and indicate that these are primarily services representing the obligation of the Republic of Croatia, which the Republic of Croatia is unable to provide to potential users for certain reasons. These services relate primarily to the construction of economic and social infrastructure. It is also necessary to prescribe a standard of public services where the state has to say what price it is willing to pay to meet those services. From the very text of the guidelines it can be concluded that they relate mainly to construction and that is certainly not enough because they should be applied to a much wider range of services. Since this is a paper in the legislative and in-house practice of the Republic of Croatia, it is necessary to prepare well for the operation of the same and to further develop funding models, with particular regard to the fact that in a large number of cases one partner will be a local self-government which should be financially strengthened. In principle, the proposing representative agreed with all speakers in the debate. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the following conclusion: "The guidelines for the application of the contractual forms of public private partnership are adopted.". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70362	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70363	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Vice President of the Government, the Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen! The SDP club will support the adoption of these guidelines, support for a wide range of reasons. One of these is that this may be the second time in this term that a consensus has been reached on a topic. For the first time, it was about the National Committee for Monitoring Negotiations and the second time it's here around the guidelines when it's pretty much obvious that we all agree. One or two of the reasons why we all agree that the government has accepted something that already lives, which was created in Croatia, which is already being implemented as projects, which are being implemented mainly as opposition projects and as implemented as projects of local self-government. And so it turns out that both opposition and local self-government can provide something that can become a national project, which can be embraced, supported and defined as in this case guidelines. Guidelines should respond to something called meeting public needs and we are all aware that at this point neither the state nor local self-government in these macroeconomic frameworks and fiscal policy frameworks can be satisfied for a longer period. According to data available only in order to move to one-way classes in primary and secondary schools, which is the goal of all of us, it is necessary to build up existing buildings of 2 billion 812 million or build and build 539 primary schools or provide an additional 3000 285 classrooms in primary schools and 878 classrooms in secondary schools. If we add that we have approximately less than 8% of higher education currently in Croatia and that our goal is to reach at least double or give God that we have as Sweden has 47% then at this point we need at least double capacities, university capacities in Croatia to achieve these goals. In order to move to one-way school in secondary and primary schools, 6 or 6.5 billion kuna must be invested. It's simply impossible if we're going to do it according to the model so far, by classical construction. What does that mean? This means according to the current model of how public-needs facilities are built to go into construction, you have to have the budget law previously provided means that when a city, municipality or state wants to build a school it must have, for example, 50 million kuna secured before it even opened a tender for the construction of that school. Afterwards, the tendering phase follows the construction phase of that school in which the person who ordered that school must pay for the school in connection with the construction and the one who ordered it, so the municipalities, states or the city before the school is finished practically has to pay the total cost of building that school, including VAT, since the budget is the end-user. What happens now? Therefore, a public private partnership agreement is now being concluded where the budget, so the public partner should say that there is a need to satisfy some public interest in some public space. He doesn't have to have money to build that school at that point, he doesn't have to have even the money to pay the rent, but according to these guidelines he just has to prove that at the moment the school is finished and when the students are in that school, he'll have money to pay the rent for that school. It can be charged, not in debt, but paid up to 30-35%. So in the construction phase when students are not yet in that school or pensioners in the retirement home, or students in the student home units of local self-government or state does not have to have money. Money has a private partner who either has his own money or borrows it from lenders so funds, banks and so on. And what's important and we've had cases like this so far to start building a school or a retirement home so it's never finished or finished after ten years. Thus, the budget bears no risk of building that school. There is no public sector, no public partner at any obligation in the construction phase of the facility. It's paid, here it's important to say so a really delivered service. Therefore, only when the public partner can use what was built only then in the quality of the service offered is the lease paid for that space, which means that when the school or home of the pensioner is finished but, for example, cannot be used in the quality in which it is contracted by a public private partnership contract, the lease as agreed is paid but the lease is reduced for the unsupervised service quality which is given to the user at that time. So here it's important to say that the complete risk of construction was transferred to a private partner. And here's what fellow Letica said, so it can really happen that the cost of building is something higher than the classic way of building. However, the costs of total use, construction and use are lower because the private partner may say that it will install more quality materials in the building to provide a better service and that the cost of maintaining the facility is lower. So here, when it comes to saving between 17 and 20%, it's something about 25, 25 or 30 years depending on what period a public private partnership contract is concluded on. And here you have to look at something called the entire cost of the facility, not just the cost of the construction phase. Unfortunately, at this point, the Construction Act only protects the contractors because you can get a guarantee from the contractors today for two years except for the constructive elements for 10 years. Now we know that everyone, we all know that for the third, fourth years, there have been very serious problems with these objects. If you look at the schools we opened five years ago at this point, they don't look very good. Ten years ago, they look really bad. And here, so we're contracting not only to build that school. We are contracting a service and it is important that in the future we can tell parents, students, pensioners that for 25 years we offer them the same quality of teaching space service. Not that after five years will be an unturned classroom or half a bench will be torn or I don't know half a light bulb broken. So all 20, 25 years we offer students and parents the same quality of student space. So not only should this lead to a large number of schools, pensioners' homes and students' homes, but we'll be able to say you'll have space, but we guarantee you'll also have the quality of that space. And it won't be possible for what happened from 1993 to 2001 that there was no systematic maintenance of primary and secondary schools. So there were schools that weren't painted after 15, 20 years. You here when you negotiate, you contract a public private partnership, and you negotiate a standard of endangerment. So at the time of the signing of the contract, it is known when the school will be played, when the parquet will be grinded, when some other things will be done in that school and they must be done because otherwise the private partner will be in very serious, very serious problems. Secondly, it's about the risk of construction. Second, as regards the risk of availability, the private partner must guarantee not only quality but also that the school will be available and available to users or public partners throughout the concession period. So the public partner doesn't care if he cracks a pipe somewhere or leaks the roof. A private partner must remove it as soon as possible. What's the situation today? If you leak a roof at school or at home and if the investment is greater than 200,000 kuna you must change the purchase plan. You have to call a public competition and then someone's objecting to you and you're having a contest. It takes you three months to get to the contractor who's gonna fix that roof for you. At this point you can't use that space and of course it comes from day to day of new damage to that object. Here it is not because this risk of availability is borne by a private partner and he is able to react daily and remove all that is happening. And the third risk of demand is therefore at the risk of demand it can be shared between a private and public partner. Therefore, depending on the public-private partnership derivative, it can be fully transferred to the public sector, such as schools, hospitals, prisons, or can be transferred to users as it can be in dormitories and, for example, pensioners' homes or users' homes, such as in the construction of wastewater treatment devices. So here I really think we can find out that we have a model that fully protects public money. Which fully protects taxpayers' money. What is the problem is a question or a dilemma or were the dilemmas that are the capacities to which you can go in a public-private partnership. In these guidelines you have separated into two parts of a public partner. One is a state that has no limitations whatsoever. So according to the country's guidelines, there's no limit. According to local self-government, local and regional self-government and companies and institutions owned by local self-government have a limit of 35% of the budget of the previous year reduced for capital revenues. We think that this is enough for cities, for the county is the problem because at this point the county is the founders of a large number of primary schools, all secondary schools, hospitals and retirement homes. And practically counties if they even get to the full capacity of 35% they will be able to make or more smaller projects like they are currently doing in Varazdin County or one, two major projects. We know that the county budgets are lower than the cities where the county seats are. However, I have here a very serious objection to the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget. The law on the implementation of the State budget fully derogates these guidelines. Because when we were on the task force talking about capacity and when we talked about what control it would be, then we said it wouldn't be the Ministry of Finance, but it would be the agency. The prime minister said that at this point it will be the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments and that the Agency will need it before you enter into a contract so that all of these indicators are presented and that the Agency will then give its opinion on which the Agency has an obligation to give that opinion within 30 days. Unless an opinion is deemed to be given. And once you make a contract in that agency, you'll be running a register of all contracts because we think you should be registering in one place and there you'll have to deposit that register. What is now being done in the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget? All of this was left behind, however, something is being introduced, which is the agreement of the finance ministry. This is completely contrary to what we said on the task force and what the prime minister presented both at the mayors and mayors' meeting and here today in this Assembly Hall. So the government agency will carry out this control mechanism. And then the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget cannot impose the need for the consent of another government body, which is the Ministry. Such an obligation cannot be imposed which does not have a period because we have just said because of the negative experience of granting consent to a task where, per year, the Ministry does not respond to the request of the local self-government unit that the time limit must be prescribed either by law or by guidelines. There is no State Budget Act here. We are therefore in a situation where the Ministry can be defiant and that the deadline may continue indefinitely. And secondly, quite contrary to these guidelines in the State Budget Implementation Act is defined as the basis for the calculation of 35% because we have just said here that the decentralised funds and are intended for this. So decentralised funds today are for material costs, investment maintenance and investment. If you build a new school, it's an investment. If you adapt an existing school, it's investment maintenance. Well, then you can't take it off the side. Because if we remove the capital revenue, if we remove the decentralised assets then the counties almost don't have the funds for the PPP project. So, I would ask the Government to, on the occasion of giving its amendment to the State Budget Act which will be in line with these guidelines because we are going to bring back a good document, and these are guidelines, and then after that with something called the Law on the implementation of the state budget, we derrogate what we agreed together. Here I am really asking everyone to support these guidelines. Of course there are shortcomings in them, but this is one process in which we cannot answer all open questions at this time. And another sentence, these guidelines don't substitute laws. They only create the assumption that the process is ongoing, and it will likely be necessary to amend the laws, to adopt one such as Germany did, changing articles in a number of other laws or changing those laws as this process requires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70364	On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Andri Hebrang. And I'm sorry, Mr. Hebrang, we have here three corrections of the incorrect quote, so wait a minute. The first is Mr. Jure Bitunj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70365	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Mršić said the following. The public private partnership is already being implemented as an opposition project in local self-government units where opposition is in power. That's completely incorrect. It's one wrong and incorrect thesis. Namely, I can tell from experience in Split-Dalmatia County specifically when it comes to the city of Sinj, when I was mayor of '93, '97. For years, certain forms of public-private partnership have been used through the right to build. In this way we solved the arrangement of the square of the Cetin region, and today the square of Dr. We also discussed Tudjman at the Institute of Construction Rights, which is one of the forms of the PPP in Sinj, and is familiar with other environments and other smaller cities, which have already reached out to some forms, given the legal regulation of the public private partnership that was allowed. I'm going to mention Ludbreg specifically because I've been there on several occasions, Imotski etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70366	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Kajo Bucan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70367	... I am correcting the same quote by my colleagues Mršić and setting the same example from the Split-Dalmatia County. [[The speaker was subsequently activated.]] On 23 June this year, a modern and children's kindergarten of 450 square meters was opened in the municipality of Solin, on the basis of a public-private partnership.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70368	Thank you. ... Mr. Vlado Jelkovac, too. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70369	Mr. Vice President, my intention was also to correct Mr. Mr. Grić's claim, given that Mr. Bitunac and Bucan had already said that and then I'm just confirming it further. Therefore, projects or segments of the PPP have been implemented in many areas where both the SDP and HDZ and the HNS are in power and something can be said about it, therefore, by colleagues sitting here in the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70370	Thank you very much. Mr. Andrija Hebrang, on behalf of the HDZ Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70371	Dear Mr. Vice President, the honorary representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. We have yet another decisive and courageous step by the Government of the Republic of Croatia because we have been given an arrow to a document on which local experiences can also be transferred to mega-projects at national level. Why now? If you are looking for a private investor in the form of a partnership, then you must first prove that you will be able to hold that contract as a contractual party, which means above all your financial obligations. You must prove at an invitation, public, international tender that you are a firm government that can hold the deficit of its budget within three percent. Because without it, a foreign partner will not trust such a government and will not report to such a competition. You must show that you are able to maintain the continuity of the increase in gross national income because without it, the foreign partner will also not come and will not trust such a government. Since this government has just announced a budget deficit of 3.0%, it has achieved master criteria, thus significantly raising the country's economic and credit ratings. Then this is the right time to make a call to the world's capital please come with us in these contractual relations in which you will invest in that country that guarantees you such economic and fiscal security. Perhaps for a start, since this concept is heard in the general public for the first time is what experience the government’s decision was based on, or experience in other countries. First of all, we need to know that the wider application of the public private partnership didn't happen that long ago. It started in the early 1990s and we witnessed several very successful major projects at the time. In the definitions she gave at the time for a public private partnership or tripple pi as spoken, a Public private partnership in this foreign literature. The definition in the international encyclopedia covers only four basic conditions for the partnership of the state or public ownership and private ownership. Everything else can be changed and negotiated inside. The first is the institution that allows such a form to invest private capital. Therefore, it mobilises private capital, encourages entrepreneurship, construction, equipment, management of these facilities and all that follows. The second definition is to introduce a private sector and introduce these services, so after construction a contract is also possible on the maintenance and service of a built-up facility regardless of which one it was. The third solid point of resistance is that a private entrepreneur thus enters a project that is and this is now importantly prepared by the public sector. So, the public sector in this case, the local or state government, in this case, is hosting projects that are going to make something happen. And the fourth foothold is that the relationship between the public sector that orders and the private sector that invests and maintains can be very, very different. That is why there are countless forms of public private partnership in the world, and these guidelines are welcome because they have directed this and reduced it to one very narrow measure and the possibility that the Croatian state can bear. I'll just mention some big projects. The first pilot project on railway construction was launched in Ireland in 1999. So the first public private relations were right in the construction of infrastructure and large capital facilities. 2002. Ireland is one of the few countries that has also adopted the Public Private Partnership Act but only after four years of piloting the project. In most cases, other countries did not bring it, but are handling the guidelines given by the European Union for this, and this guideline, which is before us, is in line with such guidelines of the European Union. It should be noted that in Ireland, 2005 exactly a year ago, the finance minister announced a new initiative for a public private partnership. Based on their 1990 - 2005 experience, they decided to do so much more energetically. Ireland will invest in a public private partnership of 2 billion and 350m euros this year. Of course, this is a different situation than in Croatia, because of course the economic situation is different. What the European Commission is saying is the basis of these guidelines. The European Commission issued a document in November 2005 called the Public Private Partnership Initiative. And it mainly defines European standards for entry into this relationship. What is important in this initiative is to point out that countries are encouraged, in this case members of the European Union, to convert as many of their public procurements into this form. And the information is that members of the European Union invest in, from their public sources, 11 to 20% of their gross national income, amounting to around 500 billion euros in Europe annually. And they believe in this document that much of it can be based on this relatively new model of public private partnership. The basic question that has been raised here, and in recent times it has been mentioned that you will go to a public private partnership when you do not have the Public Private Partnership Act. And this is being imposed here in our press these days in response to the Government of the Republic of Croatia's initiative. The sentence lays down in these guidelines of the European Union that no specific law should be passed, which means it is not even prohibited. Ireland has passed such a law, it is very general. Why do they think it's not supposed to be brought? Because at the same time they brought the so-called. "Green Paper" or "Green Paper" in which they defined all possible relations in a public private partnership in 2004. And it is the conclusion of this "Green Paper" and the definitions of those relations that all countries can enter into such a relationship without special legislation, but based on existing regulations, so the laws in certain countries that regulate public contracts. We have this in our Law on Mandatory Relations and in other laws and laws that define public concessions. So these are the two groups of laws for which they recommend a public private partnership takes place within their frameworks. What about Croatian experiences? At the local level, we have good experience. We've heard examples, examples of cities. At the state level, we have one experience that cannot be compared to this present one, because we focus our current plans more or less on social facilities, schools, kindergartens, etc. We have experience in one good project in the economy. It's Sunny Hvar. This project was done precisely on such European Union papers, and it is just one example of how this project can be implemented very successfully in privatisation. Of course, it is a very different principle than these social and other purposes in which, of course, there is no takeover of ownership, as our guidelines say. Let me just say why I think Sunny Hvar was a good project. He was good because so far he has brought foreign investment, a foreign partner 250 million kuna, because the value of the shares has increased 5 times and that the Croatian state has so far earned a pure 300 million kuna per share on the project so far in a year and a half. It is clear that this competition was also published in the international newspaper as it will have to be all next, it was published in the Financial Times and in all our newspapers. But now let's go back to the projects ahead. In the projects ahead of us there is a whole other purpose and therefore it is good that these guidelines absolutely exclude all the forms of public private partnership that could take possession of some object, which could in any way change state property in private. It excludes those contractual forms where only a service without capital investment would be provided, so without financing the construction of the facility. Contracts in which the State would only grant guarantees shall be avoided. Therefore, it could not be owned by the owner of the facility after the project has expired, and it is also avoided to the extent that the State would not become the owner at the end of the contractual period. And that's what's good in this document and that rules out any possible form of loss by the state. The document therefore provides for basic and negative parties and they are excluded. There are others left to discuss for sure. These are the risks that are not solved with this first document, nor will they be solved in such a short time, as they are solved in the world without any final solutions for the time being. First of all, it's a risk of making plans. Everyone warns that there is a risk of megalomanic plans to be entered. In our case, it was resolved by our supervision system of the Ministry of Finance over the state budget and these dilemmas that we have heard here that I believe can simply be resolved in a way that all state investments will be included in the state budget, therefore they will be confirmed by this Assembly. It is unimaginable to repeat the investments this House has not made, such as a very good goal in a very bad way, an investment of 500 million kuna in the addition of the Rebra, and that investment has never been before this Parliament, nor has it ever been included in the budgets for next year. That can't happen. This must come before this Parliament and it is the Parliament that makes financial commitments in the budget for a period of several decades to which such projects are being concluded. What should therefore further point out here is that the local administration will, of course, make its projects within those 35% of budget expenditure, that the state will make its own on the basis of the inclusion of the expenditure item in the budgets next year, based on the decision of this Parliament. What can still cause problems and what those who have had experience warn about, although not in this purpose social and other like us, but in infrastructure facilities, these are public resistances. Public resistance warns all who have experienced it are normal because it is a new way of making money available and therefore all recommend a very strong energy promotion of such projects. The next warning is that the risk assessment is a very important item, as the contract is concluded for decades, even up to 35 years, and during that period it is possible that the building that is built becomes unnecessary, too high, to fail or any other change, all of this must be included in these contracts, otherwise the investor may seek large fees for lost profits and other losses. The project's risk assessments include resistances that can arise among social partners, and therefore all recommend that those who have experience in these past 10 years, for 15 years, each contract must be specifically developed with social partners because it guarantees its security in implementation. There is therefore a project ahead of us, which, although there are several other unexplained items, should be put in the process as soon as possible because in Croatia we expect very much from it. What do we expect? We expect as counterpart Mršić used to say, building a large number of schools and school spaces. I would refer to a few words that we expect in the field of health care and social care. In the area of social care, we expect that this will fix the defect that we have in social institutions, in homes for old and powerless. Let's remember the hospices, we don't have any more in Croatia. This is an extraordinary way to get into building such objects. From the hospital facilities, I'll only mention three large bites that we can swallow this way. It is the construction of a hospital in Rijeka, the completion of a hospital in Pula and finally the construction of a replacement hospital in Blato, Zagreb, which would replace the old facilities so far. So far, no solutions have been found for these investments, and this is an extraordinary way to find them. Of course, we must mention the culture, the possibility of building museums, theatres, etc. So there must be a rich investment period in front of us that I'm glad there's a consensus that looks like most club representatives, so if that's the case, we might as well avoid an individual debate if it turns out to be unnecessary. Finally, I would say that the club supports this initiative, that it supports these guidelines, noting that it can be applied immediately, should not wait to resolve all the dilemmas that are still left are of less importance than investments, i.e. negotiations with the resolution of existing issues can take place parallelly. Full support to the project and congratulations to the government on the urgency of adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70372	Thank you very much. We've got corrections. First up is Mrs. Vesna Skara Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70373	I'm correcting Mr. Hebrank's incorrect claim that a private partner could be a foreign investor. According to the proposal for guidelines for the application of contract forms of a public private partnership on page 3, the private partner is a domestic legal person in majority private ownership who, on his own or associated with another private company, enters into a contract with a public partner. I am sorry, therefore, but Mr Hebrang is contrary to these guidelines, although I think these guidelines are contrary to both the PPS and the European Commission's position on free competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70374	Mr. Representative Damir Cain, also a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70375	Mr. Hebrang said that at the state level we have one such experience, "Suny Hvar." But at the state level, we have more than one experience, and probably the best example of such a public private partnership is a concession through the Učka tunnel. Our service remained the same, but the price went up 300% in 9 years. There's no more expensive form of building gentlemen than this. I know that because of this someone got a legion of honor, someone got a yacht, someone else showed that material equivalent, but the Istrians got three times the price of going through the tunnel than it was nine years ago. Secondly, a general hospital in Pula can be built by public private partnership. That's impossible. Because the budget of the County of Istria is 200 million kuna minus 100 million kuna of decentralised costs, you have 35 million kunas that should be allocated to one such institution that costs 500 million kuna. So let's not...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70376	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70377	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. A colleague of Hebrang's "Sun-Sun-Hvar" is not a public private partnership but a privatisation through recapitalisation. This has nothing to do with these guidelines, nor does it have to do with any European Union document on public private partnership, because public private partnership means that at the end of the ballad, it remains in public ownership, and here ORKO will be the majority owner. The contract and it's the most bizarre, the shareholder's contract is a secret. I got it through my channels from Hvar, but it's amazing that it's talking about a public private partnership and that the contract even for us MPs is a secret. And this contract does not define the protection of public interests but defines the protection of a private partner by denying the interests of both churches and private owners and the city of Hvar. So if they protect it then the state must somehow compensate them, i.e. He only has to compensate the Orco. So this in Hvar has nothing to do with public private partnership, but it's about privatization through recapitalisation, and it has nothing to do with these guidelines here.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70378	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, representative of the Cicin-Shain Koèa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70379	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here I would correct the inaccuracies of an esteemed colleague who refers to the fact that "Sunished Hvar" is a good economic project for example in a public private partnership. I wouldn't agree with that. I don't think such projects are in principle projects that should be financed by public private partnerships because they're too attractive. However, if it were to build an entrepreneurial zone in Sisak in the area of special state care or something like that, then I would certainly say it is a good economic example. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70380	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, representatives Mr Damir Kajin and Mrs Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70381	Dear Mr. Vice President, the esteemed Vice President of the Government, the esteemed gentlemen of the House of Representatives. Gentlemen, we're thinking about how to spend money, not how to make money, not how to make money, but come on, and that's fine. So we're thinking about spending, not creating new budget revenues. And just creating means budget revenues should be. But what's going on? Croatia is the most centralised state in Europe, it is centralized to absurdity. Of the country's budget revenues, 86% means 95 billion kuna. In the City of Zagreb 7 billion kuna or 6.8 billion to be precise, 7% of the remaining 7% of the waste or will be lost to these 10 newly formed local self-governments, means 549, 549 of them, the municipalities which make cities plus 20 Croatian counties. That's where it's supposed to come from. It's just an accident to mention when Mr. Hebrang mentioned the general hospital that in this budget, the budget rebalancing of the Government to the County of Istria for the General Hospital has taken down 7 million 570 million kunas from some 13.8 million kunas. So much for that. And the KBC in Rijeka with about 30 and something million kuna has taken down 9 million 800,000 kuna and it's a disaster. So, the conclusion of the 95 billion kuna budget is that the party in power is directing funds to those environments where they won the election. And that's true and it's a disaster, gentlemen. But I will also say that every nine kuna in the Croatian budget comes from the County of Istria, and in capital investments with that new budget rebalancing Istria participates or is represented with 20 million kuna. But that is why, on the other hand, the Mostar University, which we all know will not be returned to the loan, but will eventually be returned by the taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia 360 million kuna. Therefore, gentlemen, the state should be decentralised because this concentration of funds is also a mechanism of a kind of political pressure on those areas where they are not in the power of the parties that are in power today. As far as the law itself is concerned, he'll be a bit of a go. It won't be as much as you like to say. The state's forcing local self-government to be further in debt. That these commissioners, these mayors are counting all the money for the next two or three terms. Public-private partnership, come on, if the example of Sunny Hvar is good, I don't know. Ucka's a bad example. It's not any magic formula, Mr. Snotty. Public-private partnership is just a form of new borrowing and when you said earlier that someone would keep the roof, etc., benches, paint classrooms, clearly they will, but it will all be included in the price. There's no altruists, there's no man-loving people who'll build something and they won't charge for anything later. At least not from these tycoons of ours, it can't be expected. We don't have Bill Gates. Why does the government agree to this model? Because she took the obligation to cut the deficit. We're talking about 3%, even though we're or we're going to be in charge of the new 2 billion and a half kunas in the new bonds, and because local self-government in that deficit can participate about 1%, and this year it's already participating, I don't know, Dubrovnik, Osijek, Rijeka and other cities can't even imagine that they're going to be able to get a single kuna loan. Clearly, the Government, with some exception as well as sharing its resources, allows credit to its environments. Third, the public-private partnership is nothing else than we have heard from many concessions, say Učka, the point program, etc. How convenient, then, but I say it's always more expensive than building on your own and nobody's going to convince me again, that these investors are some new altruists, people who are entering a project without their own interest. There's no such thing. Local self-government will have to enter into these relationships. Why? Because it allows for indirect lending, or an indirect one credit arrangement that has been disabled so far, but I'm going to tell you one more time. It's an unknown case that someone gets something for nothing. It's like leasing to you. The car is from the bank until the moment you clearly pay that bank off the loan. Who's driving the car? You drive it, but who makes it? Of course he makes a bank. And that's exactly how it's supposed to be understood and that's how it should be defined. We use the building, but it makes someone else clearly, and it's a normal, natural relationship. What does that look like? So, it avoids showing debt in the deficit of the Republic of Croatia. I'm going to say once again, the budget of the state is 95 billion kuna plus road, etc., 105.6 billion. The budget of the City of Zagreb is 7 billion kuna, the budget of 20 Croatian counties is 2 billion kuna, and 549 hundred cities and municipalities cca 5 billion kuna. So on that basis, it could be in a year, two, three, but not after that, approximately two billion kunas. I don't know who could convince me that it's possible to withdraw more money, but that's something you should say hello to. For local self-government, it's respectable money. Today local self-government can be owed up to 20%. The public is now mentioned that the local self-government public-private partnership can be owed up to 35%. It means 35% more. Maybe this is 35% and too much. Or, for example, Pazin has a budget of 45 million kuna. Five million kunas make up these capital revenues, you have those decentralised assets, so it turns out that through the Public-private partnership, Pazin could be in debt for 14 million kunas. Let's say for 10 million kunas, one Rovinj, one Poreč for 30 million kunas, one Pula maybe for 60 million kunas. This Law, no doubt, we will all support these guidelines. But this is on the other side and throwing dust into your eyes without local self-government increasing revenues. You can have 45% of the population in a working relationship like the County of Istria, you can have unemployment about 5%, you can represent every 9th kuna in the budget from these spaces, 90% of the covered imports of per capital with exports of 3.4 times the state budget, but on the other hand from that state budget, you get 20 million kuna back. If you're with me, you'll get it, if you're not, I'll give it to you. It is not also true that this model is something Croatia did not know. We've had concessions since 92, but clearly because of the war, it hasn't often been applied, and since some forms of public-private partnership as a concession through Učka, I have mentioned it. We had recently also in Pula a public-private partnership relationship with their sports hall, but I argue that this form of construction has been three, four times more expensive than any other. Was there anything else about someone else judging? I'm going to say one more time, no one is against this law, but let's also not fool the public into getting anything. She gets the hall after she's paid, and by then she'll have to pay both the obligation and maintenance and the repair of that roof if, clearly, otherwise, under quotes, we don't agree. It's a good thing there's no public tender off, etc., but you realize that nothing is more favourable than working with your money for yourself or for yourself. This is a kind of loan, like any other, with a loan to secure or money to the builder anyway, and you take over the building, for example. by paying rent, maintenance of the building itself, etc. The point is that it is not expressed through the central government deficit and that local self-government no longer has to beg the finance minister for a particular loan or loan. So clearly this should be supported, but first of all, we need to think about changing the new Law on the financing of local self-government. The stories that local self-government will be able to solve all its problems in 6.7 years, that they will be able to withdraw 4 billion kunas annually, are stories for small children. For example. The county has a budget of nearly 2 billion kuna. So if you turn down 1 billion kunas of decentralised funds, you can't borrow up to 750 million kuna, but up to 350 million kuna. If you're in charge of 350 million kuna this year and pay in 10 years one tenth of that next year, how much longer can you be in debt? In 3.5, what is it? No! No! For, say, 9%. You can't just go on and on.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70382	The bukovac gives signals.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70383	I know he does. And that's why I'm saying that in three or four years it's not 12 or 15 billion kuna, but 2 billion kuna, and if it's possible more then it would be good to explain it to me, and the fundamental problem is exactly the financial capacity of individual counties.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70384	Thank you very much. Mrs. Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70385	Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Vice President of the Government. At the beginning of my presentation, I must certainly side with the units of local self-government, but I must say that again this is one substitute only for the decentralisation of the Republic of Croatia because everything is back to the units of local self-government. These guidelines should neither be allowed nor should they be allowed by the Ministry of Finance to grant consent and consent to every unit of local self-government that is allowed by law, which is 20% of the debt without those famous 2% because we must really harshly criticise the government simply because it holds local self-government as a hostage, and in particular in the total debt of the general state of the unit of local self-government only participate with one and a half percent of the debt. It is therefore insane that the government continues to insist that they can be in charge of the total budget for 2% of the revenue. This is a more absurd team when it is known that local and regional self-government can only be in charge of capital projects, so investment while on the other side of the country is owed almost exclusively in this year to repay interest on existing debt and recover the budget deficit. I have a feeling that the government doesn't know too much about public private partnership, but it is still worth welcoming local self-government units means Rijeka, Koprivnica, the Varazdin County that launched the initiative. It is also necessary to amend many of the laws that are, one about public procurement which is extremely important for these guidelines, and under the existing Public Procurement Act he is not in agreement with these postulates of the public private partnership. It may also be an important matter for the agency that the government is proposing, which is the Agency for the Promotion of Investments, because in our opinion it would be in a direct conflict of interest. On the one hand, it would encourage investment, and on the other hand it would decide what a public partnership is, and which is not, and which is very bad because it would have both skirts and scissors in its hands. It is therefore necessary to insist on an independent and independent new agency that would firstly have an emphasis on knowledge and experience, not necessarily on political similarities. There are also talk of schools, hospitals, and this is often pointed out by the Government, and there should also be a number of other public investments such as sports facilities, cultural facilities, housing, water supply, parking lots, pensioners' homes and municipal infrastructures.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70386	Thank you very much. You can check in for five minutes. Correction of an incorrect allegation. ... It's their thing to share. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70387	Your Honor, Mr. President. That the funds are directed only where it is in power is not an incorrect quote, that's a lie. Lies and correct lies, not false allegations. It is unacceptable for a parliamentary representative here to speak when he knows and sees that all the projects this government receives in all the county and municipalities and cities are investing and caring for the even development of the Republic of Croatia. That the only place in charge is where he's in power, so how can he say something like that? Without looking at how many municipalities and cities are exactly the opposite of how many municipalities and cities are in power where HDZ authorities do not have a normal responsibility for the municipalities and cities that gain it and have conditions. There's still a number of things, but I don't have time to make it right.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70388	Thank you very much. There's no institution to correct a lie, there's a correction of an incorrect assumption to that. Is Mr. Cain looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? ... An article? [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70389	Here's Mr. Capricorn, what it looks like.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70390	It's an article.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70391	28 million.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70392	An article?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70393	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its What does it look like when Istria... 28 million kuna, each. [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70394	It has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70395	Well, I want to deny his insults with facts and figures.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70396	It has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure because I have found that there is no correction of lies but a correction of an incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70397	But you didn't interrupt him, you didn't warn him.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70398	I didn't know what he was gonna say. I can't interrupt him in advance. Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Jure Bitunac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70399	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A fellow Caine said one whole series made incorrect allegations, I'll try to say something, correct some. No new budget revenues are created through a public private partnership. That's absolutely incorrect. It is precisely the objective of the public private partnership and one of the results is new employment and the creation of greater economic growth, and thus budget revenues both of the local self-government units and the revenues of the state budget will be greater. And another one, that no one is against this law. However, it is someone and it is Mr. Cain because his entire exposure and concept that he represents de facto goes against and counters this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70400	Correction of Mr. Andrija Hebrang's incorrect quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70401	Thank you very much. I'm correcting Mr. Cain's incorrect allegations that we'll be in charge of the new 2.5 billion next day. This task is only for the repayment of the principal of the existing debt and will reduce the total debt due to it. The second incorrect quote that I'm correcting is not known whether the project "Sun-Hvar" was good. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It is a project introduced in European Union green paper as an example of a public private partnership and has brought 300 million kuna worth of Croatian shares in the first year of partnership. Give me some time because of these riots around me, there's something very upset. And the third incorrect assumption is that these guidelines should not even be that in time the Ministry of Finance gives consent to local administrations. These guidelines are necessary because they have narrowed down the public private partnership in such a way as to prevent any privatisation, takeover of state ownership by private persons and a whole series of others for the country of unfavourable forms and are therefore necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70402	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70403	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! I'm correcting the quote of fellow Caine who said that, with a connotation, that she would not invest where HDZ is not in power that 20 million kuna was invested in the Istrian County. And here, ten days ago, we received all answers to an eternal question in which the review of the data on the total allocations from the state budget for the projects and programmes of the units of local and regional self-government, hence not decentralised funds in which the Istrian County writes for 2005. 236 million 953 thousand 474 kuna and 21 lime. So, 236 million for 2005 without decentralised funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70404	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70405	I think we should correct the whole context of the debate on behalf of the IDS Club but as long as time allows me just a few allegations. Mr. Cain says the government is going into this model with the goal of bringing local self-government units in additional debt. It's simply not true, the goal is to build objects and run an economic cycle. Next thing you know, a private partner wants to build and earn. Well, of course he wants to build and earn what's normal in every business world. And as for the part where counterpart Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac said, it's all back to the local self-government unit and not to be in charge. And what else would be the borrowing you're looking for rather than putting units of local self-government on their backs? So they're in contradiction with each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70406	Thank you very much, colleague. Another correction to an incorrect quote by a representative of the Dance.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70407	Thank you very much. Comrade Cain, you said no one is against this law. Here's in one sentence two incorrect allegations. First false quote, it's not about the law. It's about the guidelines. And second, you're against that law. You are and prove you're not, so stay in the vote once in the afternoon when it's voted, and we'll see because you're always against it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70408	Thank you very much. Another correction to the incorrect quote by MP Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70409	I'm correcting my colleague Cain's misstatement. He literally said that the government is investing and providing funding from the state budget only to units of local self-government and county where it is in power. That's just not true. I come from the carlovia county where HDZ is thanked to god for the power of all sixteen years. And colleague Cain, he would be happy to trade for all the funds that this authority and authority has invested from Mr Racan all these 16 years in the Istrian County and the Karlovak County. Let's do math, you'll see you're wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70410	Thank you very much, colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70411	Well, I'd trade right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70412	Another correction to the incorrect allegations by MP Bagaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70413	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I will correct Mr. Cain's incorrect allegations that funds or loans to the bridge university will not be returned and will not be returned. That's a completely incorrect quote. By the way, I would like to tell my colleague that Croatia has a billion-dollar trade surplus with Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Russians, the British, the Dutch and Croats invest in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Mostar University is one of the Croatian universities that is open to all and where 10% of Croatian students study. Also, one of the highest-quality universities. Croatia therefore invests in a bridge university of its own interest. Mr. Dear Cain, please work on yourself to cure your pathological impatience towards the Croatian people from Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70414	Thank you very much, colleague. You've come forward for the correction. My fellow representative, I must warn you that you have come forward only to correct an incorrect quote and this last sentence is hardly a correction to an incorrect assumption. Another piece of information. Article 207(2) The Rules of Procedure have expired time to report a ten-minute hearing. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS colleague Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70415	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, Secretary of State, Madam and Gentlemen Representatives! As things usually come from legislative to practical ones that, especially in Europe, last for people to use, they serve to increase economic growth, so that they can contribute to the economic development of their countries in Croatia usually by 20, 30 or even 40 years late compared to dominant flows. And then when they arrive here in our debates, first of all they come down to... political debates less for expert debates. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Such models as we are talking about today are known by many European countries. Many have installed them not only in their legislative system but I would say in good practices not only of construction but also of management of both public and private. Today, we are discussing them with a natural conclusion that it is not about the law. So it's not about the legislative framework for regulation of practice, it's about guidelines. I would say that I am somewhat suspicious of this fact simply because unfortunately the Croatian state in which laws are not implemented is not even law-abiding, and then it is harder to expect that guidelines will be implemented that are already in some way Semantic, linguistically not have that power of law or that legislative normativeism and I fear when we tend to avoid laws or when we tend to always look for holes in laws that we will not take the guidelines seriously. I'm saying this mainly because it's a rather sensitive area where they meet in some way, in which they are consumed in public and in private. Therefore, it seems to me that the substitution of the law to the guidelines is not the happiest. You know, if you don't have a legal question, is it better to have some kind of substitution or compensation? Perhaps it would be better if we had brought some specific guidance in terms of sublegal acts of the Ministry of Finance which would primarily relate to the bargaining because what is slippery throughout this area, what will cause doubts, what will cause and reactions are probably precisely the forms of bargaining or the ways in which the private and public sectors will be negotiated, negotiated. We avoid it, it should be said openly to the public, and the Public Procurement Act which, by the way, is what I was talking about before is often avoided or in some ways is often broken. Now we're actually going to come up with some guidelines that, in a normative sense, don't have that kind of power, so they don't have that weight, and I'm afraid there might be a lot of abuse of guidance. So hopefully there won't be any, but at the very beginning I'm saying it's not a semantic question whether it's law or guidelines. I think that's very important in Croatia because of this fact that we often bend laws. What is also, of course, not good with our support for this model is the fact that in some ways we started to say in public that it would be a Croatian "new deal". I would say it won't be a "new deal". It's not even a "big deal". It can be if we just play with words and rhyme with "new and big will". So it could be a new and big wheel or a new and big stopper. But certainly neither is it a "new deal" nor is it a "big deal". This is just the ladies and gentlemen formula. This is a form of financing and a formula of the track, of cooperation between the public and private. In order for this formula to become effective, and in order for it to become content, we need to install certain variables and I fear that without embezzling these variables we will not welcome or perhaps not achieve the effects we expect with this public-private partnership model. Why am I saying that? I'm talking because on the one hand, now, on the one hand, the units of local self-government have kind of been brought to that, and I'd say enthusiasm, and in some kind of developmental swing, everyone expects to be able to invest as much as possible in this way. I think that we need to narrow down, that we need to encourage local self-government units to invest more in public facilities, but on the other hand, we have to admit honestly that what has been talked about in the public opinion that some honestly said that many of these will actually avoid those sharp scissors of the Ministry of Finance and that this is in some way a possibility or model that we will do without increasing public debt without increasing public debt both in some of our sad calculations and in relation to international financial entities and institutions. So this is the way we're actually going to be in charge, but we're not going to show it to the Ministry of Finance either, or it's going to get into some public debt of the state, and then, of course, to international financial institutions. This is a debt. Ladies and gentlemen call it a public-private partnership or otherwise, they want to admit it or not, but units of local self-government are debted as they would be in debt both by lease or by some other loan only that they are not the entity that takes the credit, so by which credit funds are placed but they are actually in the same debt over the long term as any other financial model. With that, of course, perhaps the best confirmation of what I'm saying is the fact that all banks supported exactly this kind of public-private partnership model because they all know that after all, money comes to banking institutions. Whether it will be the World Bank or some other commercial, domestic or foreign bank we must be aware of the fact that when we refer to, for example, British experiences and Margaret Thatcher who introduced this form then we must be equally aware that never the UK had a greater public debt than just after the era of "tacherism". So let us be aware that whatever we call it, however units of local self-government will be not at 10 or 15 years hence not in the short or medium term but in the long term in the next 30 years in charge. And in this sense, as a liberal party, we are fully in agreement with those, it seems to me that colleague Cain who was saying that this model assumes or that he should withdraw more decentralisation not only in terms of some way transferring mechanical powers from the government to or from the ministry and to units of local self-government but above all in terms of deconcentration of power and ensuring greater financial and fiscal capacity of units of local self-government. It is good, once again, to repeat what investments will actually lead to the otherwise paupers and impoverished municipalities, cities and counties. What may not be good for every public presentation of this model, in every explanation, to elaborate the advantages of this model, we usually talk about the construction of schools, hospitals, units of the institution or social care which, of course, we support as a party who is now supporting the development of education, but ladies and gentlemen, what also enables the model of public private partnership is building a municipal infrastructure that is so needed for Croatia and is building certain economic capacities, i.e. economic, industrial zones and technology parks. I'll just mention the example of Graz who just built a big tech park on a public private partnership. People rented it, or the city of Graz and the Austrian state rented it. Many small companies that had a Quik old so that they could go into an incubation phase in certain investments, have linked science and the economy, and in this way have actually significantly raised economic growth. I would remind you that in the 10 years Austria has managed to double its exports to European Union countries just because they built technology parks on a public private partnership model, they built large industrial zones. Therefore, it is also something that can be built, and let us not forget that in public representation. They are important schools in fact, they are important institutions of social care. Hospitals are important, but I think it is equally important to say that this also enables the construction of facilities used for economic purposes or at least those incubation, large incubation centres in which it will be so necessary to connect in Croatia, so much necessary to connect science, higher education and the economy itself. What's not good in this whole proposal and I don't see why the government has thus set these guidelines in particular in this way we can say so to the laziness of the linguistic, or semantic explanation I don't see any reason why it's not listed here... is also a public private partnership. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why it went exclusively to the contractual forms of a public private partnership. I will tell you on the example of the City of Varazdin that we have had great difficulties with the contracting of the first Croatian was a technological park which was actually... So we signed a joint venture agreement between the city and between a private consortium that will build large buildings and build several pharmaceutical big industries there. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] We had a lot of trouble because we didn't have a template. Therefore, if the city gives land, if it gives the right to build, if it gives infrastructure or any other unit of local self-government. If a private investor builds there, there international marketing activities attracts or draws I don't know the industry, and all that after the construction of the other units of local self-government, then it's also a PTP model and I don't see any reason why we're not such a possibility... in particular, as mentioned in the European guidelines and we have installed ourselves rather than exclusively here, we are directed according to models exclusively contracted form of public private partnership, i.e.... [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] I think that's something that I think is too much of understanding the entire project and in some ways will discourage local self-government units and make it difficult for them to... [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] They are building all over Croatia. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] What should also be observed is, in my opinion, the negotiation of public-private transactions. We've taxed here and worked out the details of a particular form or I'd say the negotiation protocol. However, I'm afraid that even this elaborate negotiation protocol will have enough more holes or there will be enough weak points at which the whole negotiation process will often fail. We will also be able to say a lot of arbitraryness, arbitration throughout the negotiation process. I'd advocate it if we could just step up these guidelines with this business negotiation protocol. What I think is good, on the other hand, is the fact that we will now finally force construction companies or construction private entrepreneurs to build better in Croatia. Unfortunately, we in Croatia have not yet adopted standards and we have not developed standards modelling west, building. It is not known how many guarantees, guarantees for certain phases or for certain types of construction. This fact therefore means that a private investor and finance and designs, does not necessarily have to, but designs and builds and maintains and manages buildings. We're actually going to force them to build better, to build better, so we don't really get what happens to us often to make for example new hospitals, and then we're going to reconstruct them in two years because we realized they were badly executed. So either that's what happened, unfortunately, with the highways and we have to admit it. So let's be open here. Let's put the possibility right in these protocols to install such standards and that we really don't get objects built badly then. Therefore, the Croatian Social and Liberal Party Club will support the adoption of these guidelines. Once again, neither is it a new deal nor is it a big deal. It's just one of the shapes, one of the models. It might be good for the government to consider that this negotiation protocol between a public entrepreneur to call it a private entrepreneur better designed, because it will actually leave less space for any arbitration, and then, of course, less doubts about the cost-effectiveness and usability of the whole of this model.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70416	Thank you very much, colleague. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. He is the first representative of Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70417	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, I am correcting the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague of the Czech Republic who says the guidelines do not have the legal power of the law. In the current legal system, Croatian guidelines do not have any legal force and are not even counted in Article 177. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as acts adopted because they have no criminal provisions at all and have nothing at all, and I remind you that the Council's conclusion was that the government was obliged to settle this issue by law. Now that we're talking about guidelines, the guidelines at the time of communism had even stronger legal power than the law because they were being followed. So now we see what the paradoxes are. They used to be stronger than the law, and now they don't have any legal powers.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70418	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. A representative of Vesna Škara Ozbolt also called for the correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70419	I also have to make an incorrect quote of almost the same content, so guidelines do not have the power of the law or is not a semantic issue of law or guidance. Indeed, this is a document that we are discussing is nothing, because the Parliament has not called it, or the Government has not called it the right name, and I am asking the Proposer to change the name of this document urgently because he will not really have any legal power. Article 116 states: “The Assembly shall adopt, on the basis of the rights and powers established by the Constitution and these Rules of Procedure, the Constitution, the laws, the decisions, the declarations, the resolutions, the charters, the recommendations and the conclusions, and shall give credible interpretations of the law.” Otherwise, we will indeed begin to bring here pastoral letters, recipes, perhaps government wisdom protocols.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70420	Thank you very much. HSS Representatives' Club, Ante Markov's representative. ... Wait a minute, I can check. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's right. A little discrepancies in paperwork. The first paper says Tonci Tadic, and then Ante Markov, but the ballots are not in order. Well, then Tonci Tadic's apology, even though it's not my fault.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70421	Dear Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored gentlemen of the Croatian Government. Whatever we bring about about a public private partnership, whether it will be these guidelines and ultimately, the Parliament has adopted its own strategy, and will adopt its conclusions and these guidelines. We passed the law, we made a decision, we made anything else, it's a document of the same force as the Privatisation Act. And it is indeed an extremely important document that we are discussing today. I'll talk later about how he's conceived and what his effects may be. But it's really an important document. The public private partnership means taking over from the private sector of public services or services offered otherwise by the state or local government, or offering those public services or services which the local or state government did not even offer because it could not offer them. Therefore, it is one important step in offering services by public authorities or, therefore, local or state-owned private. A public private partnership isn't some sensational novelty from the 1990s. The first forms of public private partnership appear in the Roman Empire when special companies were registered in this sense were called public. For the Roman Senate, the public also did certain tasks for the construction of an aqueduct, building or maintaining the port of construction of a term, and so on. But the key was what would have happened to that public who would have been deaf about a contract he made with the Senate. Most often he would have lions for sparring partners in the arena and that's why no one would engage in such a breach of the Treaty with the Roman Senate. After that, throughout history we have, especially during the Renaissance, a public private partnership to make it 1990. Introduced by France, '92. Spain, Portugal, Great Britain, and 2000. Ireland, the Netherlands, Germany and Italy that even have their own special task force with the government helping local self-government with public private partnership. Of course, after that they introduced all the other countries. The difference between public private partnership and privatisation is that public private partnership means the introduction of private administration and public service or firm through long-term contractual interest. The private partner must operate there in accordance with the public interest declared in the contract, rather than in accordance with his private interest. And in the end, we have public property. In contrast, privatisation means the transfer of public service or private-owned company, that the private owner leads in accordance with his own interest, rather than in line with public interest. And in the end, we have public, and in the end we have private property, so not public but private property. The problem is that the public private partnership in Croatia has no legal foothold. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Privatisation Act only provides for the sale of shares by public tender or at the stock market, not any partnership between the Government or the Privatisation Fund with a private partner. The law on mandatory relations and its complementarity relating to partner agreements also cannot be extended to a public private partnership. And that is why the HSP MPs' club proposed last 31 March to the Croatian Parliament to regulate it, to provide guidelines for a public private partnership. However, at that time, the Croatian government, on 15.6. last year, in its opinion, denied the need and found there was no law, but it is not necessary because the government has evened out an optimal legal structure. We at the HSP club are pleased that this with a year away the government has evolved in this and that the need to find a legal structure has been recognised. Whether these guidelines are a proper legal structure is now a whole other pair of sleeves. What is interesting is that, when the State Audit Report was discussed, the Croatian Parliament adopted a conclusion proposed by the HDZ Representatives' Club that within 90 days, and this was the case on 29 September of last year, that a public private partnership law should be drawn up within 3 months. So it's been more than three months since the end of September last year. We didn't get the law but we got these guidelines, and the law we'll hope to get through a few years. What are the advantages of a public private partnership, or why did governments go to this job in the west, say the government of Margaret Thatcher? They wanted to reduce public spending and include private investors to take over part of the burden of financing individual businesses. Therefore, a public private partnership in principle means saving public finances and introduces a typical efficiency for the private sector. So this private sector invests its capital, which is why it wants to do business successfully. And the public private partnership therefore represents a better way of using public money. This also means that the private sector takes over part of the risk, the business partner, while the public partner assumes the political risk of entering a public private partnership, the risk of monitoring the implementation of the public private partnership and the possibility of termination of the contract. The role of the private partner is always limited to management but not ownership rights. However, as we have heard here a whole series of praises and public private partnership, we at the HSP club consider it a duty to point out the lack of public private partnership that can result from a poorly defined legal framework, i.e. from poorly contracted contracts. Finally, a public private partnership can cost more taxpayers. If the contract is badly concluded, or if the additional costs have not been provided for during its implementation. The thing is that a private partner will always blindly stick to the letters of the contract when it comes to him and ask for bigger money when it comes to the state. Public private partnership costs should also be added to compensation for public sector employees who may be fired for public private partnership. The cost budget usually ignores the costs of contracting, designing and preparing the supervision of the public private partnership, then the termination of the contract and the conclusion of a new contract, and all this usually falls under the burden of the authorities. I repeat this all together, it doesn't have to lead to flexibility. The privateer will stick to the letters of the contract in all situations regardless of the unforeseen situation, and then we may have to engage the public sector as well. There can also be reduced service quality again by blinding the letter of the contract because the privateer will want to save. But the biggest problem of public private partnership is that what, with an inadequate legal framework, can foster corruption and conflict of interest. So there is no more explosive topic for state or local government than it is for public private partnership processes. Connecting the public and private sectors often leads to conflicts of interest and setting up jobs whether it is about bribing or getting jobs through a public private partnership or even more terrible through the conclusion of unnecessary public private partnerships if you have a state-owned firm or a city firm that can do the same well, i.e. by charging services and public-private partnerships jobs that have never been done. So, in a public private partnership, a terrible cost assessment is important. Compare how much this job can cost through the public sector and through the private sector. It may indeed be worth more for some of these jobs to stay within the existing frameworks of existing urban, county or state firms than to engage in a public private partnership. We therefore appeal to each of these jobs to make a very accurate calculation with all these parameters. Of course, a public private partnership reduces the responsibility of politicians and officials to citizens because they can always wash their hands and say that the wrong service is a private one. So with a larger role as a public private partnership instead of an open and open authority without a proper legal framework, we will actually get a closed authority prone to manipulation when setting up public private partnership jobs. So that's why the legal framework is so important. I repeat, the public private partnership is the most exclusive political topic for a public partner. He is a public partner, whether a city, county or state is under greater public attention than when it comes to ordinary privatisation or about projects financed from public sources. And therefore, the public partner must never out of the sight of his primary task, which is to serve the public interest. The public private partnership is aimed at public interest, not to maximise the profits of a private partner. So for all these reasons, we think it's a good idea to go out to make these guidelines, but they're still very far from the law. We believe there should be a law on public private partnership. The basis of the law should provide for a tender, the basis of the law to choose a private partner, the basis of the law to conclude with a private partner a contract which clearly determines what is the public interest which the private partner must fulfil by transferring all business risk to a private partner, which ensures public monitoring of the public private partnership and which ensures that the contract is terminated if the private partner does not meet the obligations or if, for the sake of its failures, does not meet the agreed objectives of the public private partnership. When we refer to the so-called. The public private partnership in "Sun-Hvar" then it is crystal clear that this business risk is based on the state, there is no guarantee of public monitoring of the public private partnership because the contract is secret and there is no telling what is actually happening and there is no possibility of termination of the contract. If this does not meet the obligations or if, for the sake of its failures, it does not achieve the objectives of the public private partnership. So the law is important. But there's another terribly important thing that's completely forgotten in these guidelines, and that's who owns the company that the public private partnership is with. In 2004, the European Union has not yet adopted a transparency bond directly, i.e. the Transparency Obligation Directive, which requires that 10 of the largest shareholders of each company in the European Union be declared, because it can happen precisely because public private partnerships can lead the setting-up of jobs, that public private partnerships be concluded with the private company of one of the local or state officials. That is why we insist that these guidelines be complemented by a key feature, which is that it must be declared to be the owner of the company, i.e. the 10 largest owners of the company with which it goes to a public private partnership. We are not children, we know what was happening in Croatia during the privatisation process, we know what damage this can all be produced to. So for all these reasons, the Irish went to law school. For all these reasons, Greece has made a very extensive law on the 40th page simply because they know there is a whole series of possibilities for setting up jobs. Also speaking of the guidelines themselves. The Green Paper, which is mentioned, i.e. the Green Paper or Green Paper, is actually a template for discussion within the European Union. It does not represent guidelines, it simply balances what is happening in the Union and encourages public debate. In fact, its conclusions stemming from this public debate within the European Union are crucial. We find it equally strange that only one form of public private partnership is elaborated here. So if the green paper provides that it can go to the creation of a joint venture of one form, i.e. the creation of a contract with a private partner as another form of concession, why in this booklet, these guidelines only develop this contractual form and not... and why out of all of them one dozen possible variants of the public private partnership are being discussed exclusively... "you drink money initiative", so why is this all expensive narrowing down. But the key problem is that, since this is not the law, there are no criminal provisions here and there is actually no possibility of sanctions for a representative of local self-government who actually disobeys a whole series of logical business demands or for a private partner who disobeys the contract itself. So, that's why our club will be held back in voting on this. We think it's a good idea to look at it this way, but ultimately, it would be good if these guidelines were far better worked out, if they were in line with the newer green paper documents with the desire that when we get the proposal for a law on public-private partnership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70422	Thank you very much, colleague. We have corrections to incorrect allegations. He is the first representative of Joseph Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70423	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The esteemed colleague probably unconsciously in the introduction of the exhibition said that this Law, these guidelines have the power of the Law on Conversion, and eventually said that there was no legal power at all because there was neither sanctions nor coercion to the state, which is true. ... Yes, but you were probably going to say, these guidelines will cause consequences as well as the Privatization Act. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Unless at least one comes, but I'm proposing six laws for six models of a public-private partner, and this is plain fiction, not an act of legislator. Especially if under a public-private partnership it wants to subdue "Suncani Hvar" which is privatised to the contrary to the applicable Privatisation Act and without the Law on Public-private Partnership.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70424	Thank you very much, colleague. The next representative is Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70425	Thank you very much. I am correcting Mr Tadic's incorrect assumption that the Law on Mandatory Relations does not apply to a public-private partnership. According to the green paper, each state decides whether to pass or not to pass the law. The minority brought it, most of it didn't because the "green paper" says the state-owned laws on contracts apply. A Mandatory Relations Act in Article 247 further defines precisely the contractual relations and talks on negotiation, Article 251 and further, the conclusion of a contract, Article 274, the form of a contract 286, etc. So all the elements of the contract are processed here. On the basis of these, such a public-private partnership contract can be made, which of course does not exclude any other caution that has been mentioned and which are necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70426	Thank you very much. The HSS club, Ante Markov, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70427	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister, representative of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, colleagues and colleagues. The reasons that led three and a half years ago to update the public-private partnership debate as a model of governance and a model of mutual relationship between the state and private persons were in the fact that the debate on whether it is necessary and whether it is necessary to change the role and character of the state's relationship against governance and development. It has proved necessary to change the state's attitude in current modern terms and to make it more directly linked to the private sector. That the relationship between the public and private sectors is the relationship of partnership everywhere in the world. The debate stemmed from a debate, a broader debate on how the Croatian Privatisation Fund manages its portfolios. It was a motive for where this current topic came from. In fact, we also claimed that, and this is the same today, that the Croatian Privatisation Fund is not in the management function but in the function of the administrative arbiter, and it was supposed to be in the management function and should have prepared all those government portfolios by the time the conditions were obtained to go either in privatisation or in some of the familiar forms in which state portfolios could be managed. The public-private partnership, along with other options, presented one such challenge. The topic was then open, updated and during that time, the first case in which the first example or pilot programme was tried to update the public-private partnership on the "Sun Hvar" model took place. Of course, this model of "Sun-Hvar" cannot even be interpreted as already stated, as a model of public private partnership, rather than a pure capitalisation that was done better or worse, less publicly, was less exposed to the basic assumptions of a public-private partnership, which is the public and application of the principles. Too bad it didn't happen differently, too bad we don't really have a better example based on which these guidelines could have a positive character, because we absolutely hold at the HSS Club that it would be better, precisely because of these discrepancies, precisely because of the sensitivity of the public, and because of ourselves as we are, we come to the adoption of the Law on Public-private Partnership and that the terms, the ways in which and under what conditions and circumstances various forms of public private partnership can be applied in various branches to which they apply. Because it's not the same situation everywhere. The model of public private partnership in this form has been the most advanced in the last few years, and it has been imposed as the primary way of preparing and implementing projects that are primarily in the public sector's jurisdiction. And it's equal at the state level, same at the local level. In doing so, it was also applicable to existing facilities, I mean public enterprises that manage these facilities, but also to new "greenfield" investments in different forms and forms. What is crucial for private, public partnership is a professional way of preparing the project. It's a key word, actually. The tendering process, the market evaluation of the project and the selection of the best private partner are 3 key principles that speak about whether the public-private partnership will be resuscitated as effective or contains certain elements that are not actually in the partner's interest. That is why it is the law, it should be the one that will make this procedure very precise so that all participants can adhere to it. Of course, in a public private partnership, each party asks to find its own interests. The private has come here absolutely to earn and to enrich his money better than elsewhere. The state absolutely serves him as one security and, of course, the financial institutions are very pleased that such a way has been updated because the repayment of funds, the return invested because no one has any cash, will eventually come to financial institutions that will lend to the projects. Clearly, guarantees are far more powerful when the state, local self-government, or someone else stands behind them. So, that's clear. The State should and should not, in the first step or in the short term, seek materialisation of its interests, be more important to it and must be more relevant to certain general and public interests, public interests of the public sector, but clearly with a reduction of the costs of the project itself, with a reduction of the costs of implementation and full control and supervision of both sides of the investment and, in that sense, there are certain closer activities in which public private partnerships are applied and those where public private partnerships are applied in some other forms. Tourism itself is not the most suitable form for so-called. the general principles of public private partnership application, with it more have some sub-models than the sharing of time use, than a joint investment, because tourism in nature represents one commercial basis and public private partnership can find interests in the form of protection of ownership or certain specific conditions which can result in the interest of both the public sector and the private sector. As a result, the largest number of public private partnerships has also occurred in the sectors of the energy system, waste management, water, disposal and all those public needs that represent the real interest of the public sector. It is very important to clarify some things precisely from the aspect of the European guidelines and what is very clear and said should be known. Namely, the biggest difference between private and public partnerships and privatisation is in the following. There is a transfer of ownership of property in privatisation. In the case of a private public partnership, the transfer of assets is not irrevocable. So these are very important and the key differences that exist. Another difference in privatisation is the state body responsible for regulation of the process, meaning for the creation of those legal and sublegal conditions. In the case of a private and public partnership, the state body is responsible for the policy and level of support. So he's got another goal. Third, in privatisation, the government is withdrawing after privatisation from service, i.e. support, in the private public partnership, it remains in support. In privatisation, the government carries the risk to whoever bought it, in a private public partnership, the government shares the risk with a private entity. I'm talking about one very important thing that wasn't really discussed. This is definitely a good model, a good direction of movement and should be clarified to the end, but also adapted to the Croatian opportunities that lie in some of the models of the private public partnership. However, from this particular fourth thing I said about the shared risk lies the risk. He needs to talk about the risk. It is not quite incorrect what colleagues have said that local self-government, meaning local levels that do not have strong support for those fiscal resources that the state has can find themselves in an unspeakable position and it is not easy to decide any city in the Republic of Croatia, perhaps other than the City of Zagreb to enter a private public partnership and now go into great support and create huge potentials, resources and all together when and its fiscal potential are as small and insufficient for normal functioning. At the same time, a huge amount of risk arises and I would dare say that in relation to this very flexible rules in the guidelines or almost that there are no rules there is one objective possibility of being in charge or not having until the end of a clear vision and precisely designed studies which are the possibility of restoring it all together. Whether the whole package, the whole programs will get into trouble that they can't return separately when it comes to objects that don't necessarily have the part in them to create a new value and to return themselves. Most of these projects we talked about are public character, service character, and simply there is no mechanism for returning these invested funds to almost 80%. So I realized this, and I realized that this is one principle level where the government is trying to satisfy let's say the articulated public needs, to create a good framework for better action, but I think in nature, when we kind of factor out all these elements, when we see what the potentials are, we actually see. You can't get anything out of anything. If you're missing something, if you're short on money how are you going to settle that difference? Is it leesing, is it a loan, is it a public private partnership, was it anything else? That's a shortfall. You can't spend more than you've produced. The difference has to be covered. Therefore, there is no system in which you will lack in local self-government, whether in the central state or not, and that he will not burden anyone. There is no such principle to this day in the world. So, first of all, I would go back and again in the way of managing the government portfolio. If the state had no government portfolio, then there would be no interest in the private sector to try to find some form of mutual business integration with the state. Today, with a government portfolio, unfortunately, we're running a bad, no way, we can almost say we're not managing it. We don't have any instruments, we don't have any quality way of making the Croatian Privatisation Fund, the formal holder of a lot of portfolios for which we often and don't know how many we have, how to improve the efficiency of management and how to create even if the current market value of shares or shares in these companies is maintained. If we try to segment all the portfolios we have and try to find the best ways to activate these portfolios in accordance with the needs of the state and in line with the needs of the regional, regional and local self-government, then we can discuss which model is most acceptable for the individual segments in the portfolio and for which model is a good fast privatisation for reasons that society continues to sink into the dubiosis and does not lose its value. So this is a very broad topic, and it's not good that in this kind of a banalising way it came to the creation of an artificially challenged possibility that we will solve with this all the problems that we have in the state portfolio that local self-government has, which the central state has. This is a good model, the world knows for it, we need to see how and how to find its place in it and how and how to prepare the portfolios of the Republic of Croatia and how to adapt the special interests to the possibilities without coming back into the situation to discuss whether something was a public private partnership or whether it was a capitalisation, whether it was made publicly and transparently or not. Because of all this, I think it's a good idea for the government to make a bill that will solve all these dilemmas and problems that are present.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70428	Thank you very much, colleague. The next is the HNS Club, a fellow representative of Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70429	Dear Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The model of a public private partnership, in particular the part called a private financial initiative or a shortened PFI, gives a whole series of advantages listed in these guidelines, which are of paramount importance for each European country, and it is not by chance that almost all European countries are benefiting and benefiting from it. We in Varazdin County have seen the potential of a public private partnership and projects under this funding model are already in realisation. In particular, it should be stressed that the importance of a public private partnership for the Republic of Croatia goes beyond the usual advantages seen in other European countries, because of the government's strategic decision to reduce deficits. In fact, it is ignored that it is not a key question whether the deficit is yes or not because it is only one of the instruments of financial policy but it is crucial whether the deficit for consumption is used or as a detonator of development and the most unique example is the construction of the highway in the mandate of the last government. The current government has stood there defensively not realizing that a country whose level of industrial agricultural production is only slightly above half of the one in 1990 is missing the optimal use of its development potential and directly endangers its future regardless of formal financial stabilisation. That is why this model is crucial for the development of the country at the present time, a model that drives key development factors, education, infrastructure, health care and at the same time drives the economy. In particular, it should be stressed that it does not burden the state either in terms of budgetary burden or as a risk. And it is clear that the complexity of this model requires a high capacity of public administration, a long-term and serious preparation through all phases of the project, starting with an analysis of the current situation, identifying needs, creating project documentation, education, call for expression of interest, binding offers, analysis and negotiations with investors, negotiating and signing contracts, defining the period of adaptation or construction, maintaining space and switching to the ownership of a public partner.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70430	My colleague, allow me to interrupt you for just a second because I have brief information for the MPs. The President of the Parliament asked that MPs be in the hall at 13 o'clock, so probably after the very end of your presentation when the President of the Parliament will address the decision of the Croatian Parliament to declare this year by the year Nikola Tesla, so I ask colleagues and colleagues who are near the hall or in some rooms below to enter the hall. I'm sorry and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70431	Thank you. In particular, it should be stressed that the key ability and knowledge of responsible people in the public administration to understand the context in which this model is applied and some discussions today show a lack of understanding of the essence of the public private partnership, and it is clear that there will be plenty of learning to understand the essence, essence and potential of the public private partnership. The ability of responsible people running the Varazdin County has contributed to the successful implementation of public private partnership projects in the county where the first object worth 20.3 million kuna is completed in 60 days, contracts for another six and 30 and nine buildings are already signed in the construction phase, in the negotiation phase there are thirty nine buildings. Domestic and foreign experts, consultants offer a variety of models, however, given the institutional level of development of a Croatian society that cannot guarantee security at a level that is possible in other European countries, any expansion of the range of offers brings an increase in the risk to a private partner and consequently additional insurance elements which raises the price to a level that completely prevents the implementation of the project. Therefore, the public administration in the application of the public private partnership should, for the time being, stick to the basic assumptions that need to be met as a model to be accepted as a public private partnership and not to enter the public debt. Understanding this fact has made this model in Varazdin County a success. This complexity and seriousness of the task to be carried out in order to ensure that one project per model of public private partnership is successfully realised shows that the adoption of the proposed guidelines for the application of contractual forms of public private partnership and with the practical experience of the Varazdin County, which we are ready to pass on to all interested, will create an important basis for breaking the mistrust that is created precisely because of the lack of knowledge of the public private partnership as a novelty in Croatia. In particular, it should be stressed that it is necessary to continue working on the development of the so-called so-called development. Secondary legislatives and especially for the maximum provision of public-private partnership by PFI model, which is also of great importance for the construction and reconstruction of public buildings such as schools, hospitals, kindergartens, retirement homes, sports facilities, municipal projects and the like. The guidelines well identify the need to address the problem of double taxation that could arise when paying rent and for which problem is recommended to be considered by the Ministry of Finance. Furthermore, the issue of paying sales taxes to real estate or land to be regulated by the tax administration of the Republic of Croatia is raised when acquiring buildings from a public partner. It is necessary to consider the possibility of setting up long-term funds to support the public partner in financing public-private partnerships projects and the role of the country in developing priority projects in the field of units of local and self-government. We believe and suggest that within 6 months, the government should prepare an emergency draft of such a law as it was adopted by Germany in 2005. There are only 6 pages and the translation of the title of this law is the Law to speed up the introduction of a public-private partnership and to improve the legal framework for a public-private partnership. Finally, since the proposal for guidelines for the application of contractual forms of public-private partnership is in line with our practice in the Varazdin County, the Club of the Croatian People's Party fully supports their adoption and, with a note, it is a pity that this has not happened before because we first presented this model in Croatia three years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70432	Thank you. For the club HSU, respected representative Josip Sudec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70433	Ladies and gentlemen ahead of us are guidelines with which the Croatian Government comes before the Parliament. They represent the points of general terms and do not prevent any of us from fitting into these general conditions, and that under the existing laws, they create certain contracts or mutual relations. As a Croatian party of pensioners, we support and will vote in favour of these guidelines although the time will come very soon for them to be translated into the law. Whether this law will be enormous or only regulate certain questions about it will show very quickly our practice. The collection of private funds in order to meet the needs and wishes that are sometimes social and sometimes private here are particularly expressed. I'll set a specific example. It's about older and powerless people. It's about pensioners, and it's about building homes or depadance for pensioners. In order to be able to relate to joint construction, a large part of the pensioners are particularly interested in us pensioners who receive certain funds through the Reimbursement Fund. The first war was paid, however, remains, still significant funds remain. In 2006, a billion and 400 remain at the end of the year. In 2007, it's 3 billion 150 if we take the first war for 6 years and then each year, 750 million each and one large part of the pensioners would want to secure themselves for age. For when someone else needs to take care of him. They're particularly stationary. The question arises: Can we and how can we become shareholders of these future homes? It's that institutional form that wasn't worked out here. What's only a note here and in order for it to be realized first needs to be cleared up whose homes are the pensioners now? Or if you're depadancies, then you have to work as components of the retirement homes. As far as I know, pensioners' homes are part of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. They're actually owners. They saw one piece, the state just took over, now the state has transferred them to county management. Thus, even cities if cities were to appear as stakeholders in the construction of the depot, even cities are not partners with the pensioners. It should be the counties, but we as pensioners would be satisfied or we have more confidence that it would be, that it would be the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute or that it would be a state. Therefore, if we clear the question of whose homes it is, then it is not a problem to clear up and which company is special purpose because we should together form a special purpose company in which we would invest our shares. They'd be shareholders, and for those stakes, they'd ensure the right of the championship in those homes. Whether it will return to us through the transfer of the share to our successors or write it off as the use of homes or as the cost of using homes should be elaborated. And it should also interest pensioners in this way that this part of the funds that would otherwise end up either in a stocking or in, are amounting to more than 30 thousand kuna, which is a significant asset. So there are 30 to 100 thousand compensations that are significant and that would certainly be very welcome for the pensioners to handle their own accommodation issues. There's one problem here, and that's that pensioners who don't, who don't have in their first inheritance, first order of business for them, would take part in the state. It would be a good idea to pass on that share in time to be an integral part of the property of that home, not of the state. It is therefore of interest that this framework of the institutional framework be developed and that pensioners find interest in solving themselves issues of care and care for age. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70434	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. 15 MPs and MPs have applied for the debate. It would be economical if the debate could be slightly reduced in time. Let's take it in a row. Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70436	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and fellow MPs. And I have to make an impression. First of all, we are offered a legal economic concept to discuss it in the Croatian Parliament as if it was just now invented by Nikola Tesla. Here we are offered instructions for the application of this concept, and we are having a theoretical debate on a legal economic institute, and we are not having a debate on the legal arrangement of this institute or these institutes for the needs of Croatian society and Croatian economy. Obviously, the matter is not understood or deliberately understood, so the statements of the type that the public private partnership allows us to develop without burdening the budget or charging, and neither in guarantees say that those who thus represent the thesis speak only of their own interest and do not speak of the interest of those who will have to pay for private investment plus its maximum profit, and the capacity of Croatian citizens to serve a public private partnership in the misery they live in is zero. Of course, there is money so much that those who have it will not know where to invest it because there are not enough programmes and also Croatian banks under alleged signs are really looking for areas to invest in so that the maximum profit can be drawn. So let me get right to it. The Institute of Public Private Partnership for me is not controversial, it is by its own definition not good or bad, it is both good and bad depending on how Croatia will apply it. But the basic purpose of this institute is that or it is mostly realized through a public private partnership as follows. The public sector invests the country, buildings with or without payment on a given deadline, takes risks and does not expect profits. In a public private partnership, it is because services are provided or other important matters for that community. Then the private side designs the city and renovates, increases the capacity of the facilities from the previous point, does not take the risk, but expects maximum profit. The public sector defines and defines, sets standards for the production of public service facilities and how their prices are formed because it must be returned through price or through something private, and see what the catch is. Citizens pay, they bear the irresponsibleness of a public partner. The only citizens bear the irresponsibility of a public partner, and the interest of a private partner is to maximise profits in this relationship. In other words, the marriage between public and private is concluded because of interest, and the public interest of the Croatian state does not offer to regulate itself through the law, to predict coercion and to stand behind the coercion. Therefore, now to develop the thesis that is a model good for Croatia or to show how much who knows which of the six theoretical models envisaged is actually to challenge a debate that will not conclude anything. The models exist regardless of what the Croatian Parliament thinks of them in both Germany and Croatia and France and Iceland. They are not our invention, but we need to regulate them for our terms and conditions behind that regulation to stand the state with its coercion and with the protection of public interest. That it is a dangerous thesis that this or that it is already regulated through the applicable laws in the Republic of Croatia, therefore positive regulations, will show an example of "Sun Hvar". This is where the Deputy Prime Minister said on my question, so it's normal that in a public private partnership, a public partner will lose his property and will not invest privately unless he acquires property. And colleagues and colleagues in the thesis or I don't know in the instructions under point 4. the legal framework of a public private project can be very different. Since terminology and terms are not uniformly defined in practice, different terms, names, etc. appear. According to all these names, the entrepreneur builds, maintains, manages some projects, and eventually returns it to public authorities. This is the document that the government sent to the Parliament after such a statement. Which is true or what the Deputy Prime Minister said about the case of "Sun-Hvar" or it is true that it is the one that writes here in the instructions for behaviour in Croatia when marriages are made between the interests of the public private and private sector, the public sector and the private sector. So I have to do it again. Without law, it is possible to interpret a public private partnership or a legal economic institute as much as anyone likes it, which means illegal. This means to act unlawfully as the Croatian government has failed to implement the current Privatisation Act and to announce that "Sunishani Hvar" is privatized. She missed it, so she didn't follow the law. We don't have a public private partnership law, and she used that model as a privatisation model. And now, on the basis of the debate of the Croatian Parliament's theoretical body called the legislative body of the Republic of Croatia, we will bring instructions beyond which the state does not stand, no coercion is envisaged, no sanctions are provided, this is not even a naked right. This isn't even a naked right, so the offer is jus because behind the right bar there's a definition of concept even if there's no coercion. There's no definition of concepts or versions that can be realized or any coercion. In other words, let us continue privatisation in the Croatian way. In a marriage in public private, he always gets hurt in public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70437	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70438	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I will correct the incorrect allegations and claims made by my colleague, Lek, where he claimed that there are no programs and no projects to spend money on. That's absolutely incorrect. Hundreds and thousands of projects throughout Croatia are waiting for realisation with the necessary documents building permits and therefore needs a public private partnership wherever it can be ensured and funds for the rapid implementation of these projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70439	Honorable representative Vlado Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70440	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues! When we discuss the budget, the budget rebalancing then hundreds of amendments best show us the amendments that require additional funding for municipal or social infrastructure facilities. The best way to show us how much we lack money in our budgets is to build everything that is objectively needed, and schools, and health institutions and kindergartens, and halls, in the homes of pensioners and no budgets or state, or cities, or municipalities can even make peace with all these objective and realistic needs. Efforts of responsibilities and by units of local self-government which due to financial constraints, which for some other reasons also do not allow for a more significant step in these activities and should be financed from the budget by all these needs of some estimates twenty to thirty years. The question is whether and whether it would be sufficient time for certain things to be made to a satisfactory extent. As a result, it resorts to a model developed in the world in the last 20 years that builds or reconstructs infrastructure and social projects with the help and participation of the private sector. While earlier such projects were built by means of the state budget, the public private partnership model allows them to design, finance, build, maintain and manage private partners who receive a key role in these achievements. In order to define a framework within which it is possible to move when negotiating and all these activities, of course it is necessary to adopt certain documents and the Government here has decided on a document called guidelines which is in some way a tool in the application of both the public and private sectors. It also defines the objectives that seek to achieve through the negotiation of public private partnership such as the negotiation and implementation of a number of projects, the sharing of risks between private entrepreneurs and public authorities, the exploitation and efficiency of private entrepreneurs, the increase of productivity and rational use of private and public entities' economic capacities, transparency in choice and arrangement, the finding of new solutions for the construction and maintenance of public infrastructure, the long-term stimulation of economic activity and the rational use of public resources for the benefit of all public service users. These guidelines also provide for principles that must meet public private partnership projects, rules of establishment and implementation of public private partnership and the authority of public authorities. Without such a model, it would not be possible for many schools, hospitals, prisons and the like to build and in those countries whose experience we want to use such facilities would also not have been possible because it was not possible to use funds from the budget. Perhaps some of this and too much is expected and I think that it should really drop the ball on the ground and say that the public private partnership will certainly not be a miraculous solution that will solve all our problems in the facilities of social and municipal infrastructure, and for each project in particular it will be necessary to assess its cost-effectiveness or justification for the application of the public private partnership model in relation to that classic model of the investor contracting of works, but it is inevitable that, with those advantages and lacks of public infrastructure, we will not stop building from the resources of the state and local budget, but also quite certainly if we apply the solutions from these guidelines in a quality way that we will be able to make a more significant step. And given the suggestion to cut short, there's one more thing I'd like to say. It's about the Public Private Partnership Agency. I think it would be right away worth thinking about going straight into the establishment of the agency because from those tasks that are numbered at the agency I think it is visible that it will have a really great deal of work, a lot of obligations, setting up a register, giving answers to all questions, and since it is the beginning and one model that is just being revived will be a lot of ambiguity, it will control the tender and contractual documents, it will work to improve the legislation and, at the very least, the public partner who wants to carry out the project is obliged to deliver tender documentation on the insight and opinion, including the proposal for a public private partnership contract. So, a lot of work and I think there really is room right away at the start and the independent agency. I conclude by saying that this is a good model, that it is a quality step in building social and municipal infrastructure, of course, it has its own fixed limits. So perhaps sometimes expectations in individuals are greater than can be given objectively, but surely this project should be launched and therefore I will support these guidelines provided by the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70441	Thank you. Dear Representative Rade Ivas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70442	Dear President, representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs! A public private partnership project has already been announced as a "Croatian new deal" since the first presentation by the government in the media. In fact, a public private partnership could step up Croatia's development and help to build and restore it more quickly in order to become competitive on the European Union market in just a few years. And why does that traditional infrastructure financing thing take me 20 or 25 years to invest in budgets? The special advantage of this type of investment that can already be successfully reflected in a number of cities and counties is that through this model there would be no further government borrowing, and a public private partnership as a form of operational Leasing would provide cheaper construction. Public private partnership rules have been governed by the government's guidelines. I can say that this is a unique example of how one legal area is regulated by guidelines, because it is common to do so by law, regulations and regulations. But the government has decided to regulate this by means of guidelines in the European Union, and it is also a practice in the European countries that this matter is governed by guidelines rather than by law. They also define the conditions under which public partners or local authorities can compete in agreement with private investors for the construction, adaptation, renovation or renovation of individual infrastructure facilities. Through a public private partnership, local government is given the opportunity to build objects for which it has no money in its budget, and I cannot reach it by borrowing because it is limited by the Budget Act. Therefore, local authorities enter the partnership with private people who finance the construction of for example schools, kindergartens, sports halls, and after their construction cities and counties will pay rent for the use of these facilities. A maximum period of up to 30 years shall also be determined after which these facilities are transferred to the ownership of local authorities. The cost, the rent for such facilities is not run as borrowing of the local community, but it is still limited. Obligations to the public-private partnership for the local unit will not exceed 35% of its budget for the previous year. The objectives pursued by the public private partnership are to negotiate and implement a number of projects, market share of risks between private entrepreneurs and public authorities, increase productivity, stimulation, economic activity and others. Public private partnership is often characterized by several elements. First, that the private partner is doing project documentation or he is taking over from the public partner to have two parties in place for up to 30 years, that the private partner participates in designing, building, reconstructing and upgrading, implementation and financing, while the public sector is focusing on setting targets that need to be achieved in terms of public interest, quality of services, price policy and assumes responsibility for respecting these objectives and that the risk is allocated to both sides. According to the guidelines, a private partner will be chosen exclusively by a public tender regardless of which initiative comes and I think it is good and it is a good thing that in certain complex jobs the competition dialogue institute can also be used. According to these guidelines, the public partner will be able to be a state through the relevant ministries, public institutions and also companies owned by the majority state, as well as the county, cities and municipalities as well as the institutions and companies owned by them. While the private partner will be able to be a company registered in Croatia and owned by the majority. Participants in the public private partnership in the public sector under the obligation of a public tender will also be subject to other types of control of the transactions they conclude. The public partner is thus obliged to the Agency to be established for a public private partnership by tendering the documentation for insight and opinion including proposals for a public private partnership contract. However, in order to prevent the red tape of the agency, a period of one month is prescribed in which the agency is obliged to adopt its opinion. That is, if it does not give its opinion on the project within that time limit, it is considered to be a positive day. Prior to the launch of the public competition, the public partner must also be determined whether the public partner is available and has sufficient financial capacity. Since all agreed payments to the private partners should not exceed 35% of the revenue budget achieved last year, not counting clearly the capital revenues achieved. And that given the suggestion... I'm done. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These guidelines should serve as a tool in the application of both public and private partnerships. The aim of the guidelines is to provide exactly the information that is enough for professional partners to implement this programme. The public private partnership brings numerous advantages that the public sector can take advantage of, such as the ability to infuse additional funds under budgetary constraints, the possibility of reducing costs while increasing the quality of services as well as speeding up infrastructure development. For all these reasons, I believe this project should be supported, so I will personally support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70443	Thank you. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70444	Your Honor, Mr. President. It's always better to get some kind of paper than no paper. As far as public private partnerships are concerned, what should be called or this morning I used Pajo's shortcut relative to the egg's acronym, which is a public public partnership used in a large number of projects where local self-government units have central authority as their partner and are also functioning. The concept was very interesting in the first more serious theoretical debate at the initiative of the French Embassy in early November 2000, based on positive experiences of obtaining a clientelistic concession for the ipilon given by Hrvoje Sarinić and the French at that time believed that under such favourable conditions they could receive other concessions and persuaded our Chamber of Commerce to organise a one-day seminar. Interestingly, the sponsor of the seminar was Slavko Linic and cannot be said to be a pioneer attempt by the current government. It was that even then, even today, several great evils threatened Croatia. First, evil is naivety and overexpected expectations. And today, unfortunately, there was a big deal, a "new deal", about the huge hidden potentials coming out of this project, about the terrible savings on the state budget, about the great opportunities that this project provides for our society. The second important problem of Croatian society is unfairer, the third is nepotism, the fourth is whatever you want. In that sense, about two and a half years ago, for the first time in this House, I was talking about public-private partnership and then Dr. Tonci Tadic made one "Internet Search" and made the first foundation of based documents. This paper, which is really awkward and annoyingly called "routines" because it really was one of the key repressive concepts of the former communist government, which in a formal sense is not even a good synonym for the concept of "guidelines" because my colleague Tomasic will confirm me that "guidelines" is a complex of two words, a guide and a directional or some kind of leadership guidance that the guidelines do not point to. Thus, when a more serious paper was produced, a more serious scientific institution had to be engaged first. This group here called the Working Group is, unfortunately, one of the stakeholders. Mayors, Mayor of Koprivnica, Mayor of Dubrovnik, I won't mention other people, they all have the same problems. They don't have enough money, little money stays at local and regional levels, they have deficit budgets. They count that they will go to the direct elections of mayors, mayors and whoever you want, and this kind of project, in their opinion, gives them a very good chance that in the first years of their rule they will ensure their rule for a long time, which is the case with Switzerland, where the mayors there remain in power for 10, 15, 35 years. When it comes to copying documents, this paper is very badly copied. That's why I told Minister Polancec this morning. In fact, the paper mentioned here in several footnotes from which a number of parameters are quoted is indeed called "green paper" or as it is called about public-private partnership and community laws, or the European Union on public-private partnership. It would be much smarter if that whole paper had been translated, literally. He's out, he's only got 20 pages. It would be even better if an old European Commission paper had been translated, in fact, by the Directorate-General of the Commission called really "Guideline", I will not say the concept of guidance for successful public-private partnership. This paper is from March 2003, it has 100 pages and it would show that here reduced and not, in my opinion, completely overly favoured forms of public-private partnership are set out 2 out of about 12 or 16 forms as they mention which legislation, it would serve as educational material for us in this House and Croatian public who has very little knowledge about it. When it comes to value, if you want the constitutional implications of this project, it is not by chance that there is no colleague from the SDP. In fact, they are more intuitive than reasonable to understand that the adoption of this project raises in some way the concept of a classical state of well-being and that the concept of public-private partnership between Paja and Egg should identify what are the limits that should be protected as untouchable when it comes to the state of prosperity. As far as I'm concerned, I would never allow that form, especially in the Croatian situation because we have to be clear that we don't have business with Carnegie or the Rockefeller who built the school... health in Croatia, New Delhi, Carachi and all over the world. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're not even dealing with Ford. We need to know who our people are who will be partners with the public authorities, as they are called, I won't repeat them. They're cannibals, they're kidnappers, they're con men. And on the other hand, he'll have as partners a fellow Polancec, a serious man, a good man, but inexperienced in that business. So far, his business in several projects has given me caution. Good people can be from the point of view of the public interest of major pests. And in that sense, I would suggest that there is no vote on this document today. That demagogical is not about how the European Union has not been defined for legal regulation because there are 3 reasons. The first is the reason for the formal-legal nature because Pajo does not belong to the category of joint acquis. Secondly, the "guidelines" there refers to stable, judicial systems that have very clear and long legislative traditions and when it comes to concessions, when it comes to public contracts, when it comes to public procurement and when it comes to institutional... This system, for these reasons, did not go to the specific adoption of certain specific legal regulations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In Croatia, too, this is not new when it comes to practice. Concession practice in Croatia is based on one system law and I mean 16 specialized legal regulations. So when we want to talk, I'll be very honest with you. I see these cannibals who have their eyes on Croatian forests, Croatian railways, the MORH, Croatian mail, Croatian water, Croatian islands, everything that is Croatian. And if we enter such a bona fide with a lot of pleasure, big smiles, with big holes in these papers that are very badly prepared, we're going to face up to a year, two years again with the self-critic of everything that exists. We will realize that we have brought a new sin structure. And for that reason, Mr. Minister and the people of good faith, I think this job should be approached more seriously, and in that sense, I think we should send this document to another reading. And finally, what kind of danger I'm going to remind you of a polo tournament a few days ago on Brijuni. The little people know he's old... Made Brijuni hard working mostly in the mining business in 40 years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] His prodigal son gambled Brijuni in one night. In the polo tournament there was spoken Italian because Croatian was not at all an official language, there was no Croatian flag, and our President of the Republic said that the giving of Brijuni was considered for 100 years. Our President of the Republic was in the zoo yesterday. I've set up a zoo on Brijuni, but gentlemen if you mean that kind of egg and... Then you can count on my resistance in this High House and on my public resistance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70445	Thank you. Replica, a respected representative of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70446	Well, I'd just like to say that I have a slightly different view. So, in this I don't see any cannibals eating us as little babies or as little children, I see very serious Croatian construction companies which, for example, will build schools that we don't have because much more damage than that, than anything, for example, is that we won't allow anyone who wants to enroll in college now in these academic years. So, we're going to have 10, 15 thousand potential students, tell them we're sorry, gentlemen, we don't have room for you, we don't have a classroom, we don't have chairs, and we're not saying that of those who are going to sign up that all about 10% will be able to find places in dorms, and the other cannibals you're talking about are going to charge 150 euros a bed in some shed so they can even study in Zagreb. So much greater damage that we won't allow all students to enroll in college this year. For me, it's much greater damage, for example, in Koprivnica where our students go to four shifts in high school, high school and crafts school where we can't, where we have five classrooms without daylight and can't simply have normal conditions. Therefore, even if a cannibal comes and builds a school in Koprivnica where high school students will go to a new school it is much better than having children go to our classrooms without windows. So I think there's a lot more of these positive effects, and everything can be misused, so all processes can be misused. It's just that first of all, it's about building public-use facilities before commercially, for example, polo fields.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70447	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70448	Well, I'm a little sad, actually I've had my hopes up in my colleague Mrsic, but I see it's a low-range demagogy, you know? I really thought that you had some leadership potential and generalized within the party and Koprivnica with this logic you're not going anywhere. If you think that someone who builds a sports hall using your good will and naivety in the first two years, and after three years of not driving all the children out, will bring the tycoons there to play basketball in the evening, then we can meet for drinks, so I'll find you 50 examples that challenge you in that. So I want to believe that you're still a little naive and that you have no evil intentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70449	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative Velimir Plesa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70450	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Secretary of State. The public private partnership model in the last 10 years has been imposed as the primary way of preparing projects that are in the public sector's jurisdiction both at local and national level. In doing so, this public private partnership model is applicable both to the facilities, i.e. public undertakings that manage them and to the new so-called. green field projects. In my opinion, public sector motives for public private partnership are reflected in several facts. The first is the lack of financial resources to launch new investments, the second more efficient implementation of projects that are being implemented, the third is the sharing of risks between the public and private sectors, the fourth improvement in quality and the efficiency of services and the fifth long-term economic and financial benefits both sides. The public private partnership involves cooperation between public authorities with the private sector either at the level of the central or local community, with a view to meeting some public need. The concept of partnership in this respect represents and stresses a new quality of relations between the state and entrepreneurs which is significantly more balanced through risk sharing and rewards compared to previous or current close contractual relations in the area of public procurement. In fact, this partnership includes two dimensions, strategic and operational. The strategy concerns the coordination of political objectives and the identification of the appropriate roles of each partner, and operational activities are involved in the implementation and implementation of the projects envisaged. The most important thing for me and for me, the best quality in this public private partnership is certainly with all of this and is seen in risk sharing. The opportunities available for the provision of public services range from direct provision of state service to full privatisation when the State transfers all responsibilities, risks and rewards for providing services to the private sector. Although this is something new in our economic environment, in our entire state environment, I think that public private partnership has a significant impact on public finances through the generation of new sources of income, new infrastructure and new services, then by encouraging industrial development resulting in an increase in fiscal revenues and better public funding orientation. What provides public co-operation with the private sector and benefits are certainly obvious and consists primarily of faster infrastructure building, faster implementation, lower overall costs, a better quality service, creating additional revenues and more efficient management. A successful public private partnership, as envisaged by these guidelines, will contribute to social and economic aspects and environmental protection, and will facilitate the pooling of potential, knowledge and expertise. In this way it will in any case significantly increase access to a wide range of basic municipal services, services and products in particular in poor areas. The chances for the success of the public private partnership at local level are certainly higher than at national level, and are increased at this local level both due to geographical and social closeness, which facilitates ties based on trust in the use of local knowledge and potential, and thus local share. It should, however, be pointed out that by adopting these guidelines and introducing something normal and daily public private partnership into our daily life, it will not be a solution for all but its opportunities and benefits will depend on the local context, and this is the only thing we will probably do today, and hopefully we will provide a framework on which this local community will be able to develop as much as possible in the way colleagues have said it. Since it is an appeal to cut short with our discussions, here is so much in my debate. Of course, I will support these guidelines on public private partnership.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70451	Thank you. Honorable representative of Jure Bitunac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70452	Thank you, Mr. President, the Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I welcome the Government of the Republic of Croatia's initiative, the proposal for guidelines for the application of contractual forms of public-private partnership, and I am sure that this will be an implusion to address public needs faster in the municipal sector and in the sector of social activities. The aim of the PPP and the proposing and fellow MPs has already been set out. I'll just repeat what's said, meaning building objects of public interest. More rational and efficient spending taxpayers' money. Realising what is important and most important, achieving greater economic growth and a fair, fair sharing of risks between public partners, public authorities and entrepreneurs. The model of public-private partnership, its phenomenal forms are not novelty in Croatia, although they have appeared to us in certain environments are not sufficiently recognized and are not de facto about the model of public-private partnership with the existing but existing legal... not used enough. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Certain units of local self-government have also been listed, and I am pleased except for one exception that none of the MPs and the Prime Minister have pointed out this as a party and anyone's idea when it comes to political parties in the Croatian Parliament. So we don't need to politicize about this. This is one joint project of the Croatian government and all political parties present in the Croatian Parliament. I can say that existing laws and existing legislation, however, give some space without strong support, strong initiatives by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament, I believe that the results will be limited as they have so far. In this respect, the proposal for public-private partnership guidelines should be a strong impulse to the public sector, to public partners and, on the one hand, to the state, to state-owned state-owned state-owned enterprises, to local self-government units and municipalities, to cities, to counties and to companies owned by them and to the private sector. It is certainly expected that the units of local self-government, municipalities and cities as quickly and faster will respond to the changes ahead of us, and I am sure that those environments, those municipalities and cities that have not so far had the experience of having the basis of this initiative that we are going to discuss today, which I hope will be adopted in the Croatian Parliament that this entrepreneurial spirit and the opening of new opportunities and new perspectives will take advantage of them in an appropriate and efficient way. Following what some fellow MPs have said, I believe that all dilemmas should be removed when it comes to public-private partnership in the sense of knowing whose is what, who is investing and the rules of the game should be public. She needs to be transparent. In this regard, I believe that the guidelines are well-conceived and that the existing regulatory framework if it is not good, then it will be necessary to carry out certain interventions in that direction. First of all, I believe that the existing law, the legal framework, will only list some of the laws, that they are already a good legal framework for the realisation of the public-private partnership. Here I think, first of all, of the Law on Mandatory Relations, the Law on Public Procurement, the Law on Property, the Law on the Communist Economy, the Law on the Management Strategy, Waste Management and the Waste Act. The forest law and other laws. So that legal regulation of those areas where these models would most often and most be used. I think the procurement process itself is very well-conceived, but I will say that the percentage of the public-private selection, the public-private partnership project should be regulated according to my assessment and legal arrangements. I believe that the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget and the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government Units will need to intervene in these two laws, certainly intervene or need some other special law to resolve this issue. Anyway, I support this proposal. On the one hand, it will mean a faster and more high-quality public needs resolution, a reduction in the government's budget, but it will also be an incentive for privates to engage in the development of the public sector, resulting in the foreseeable time I am confident of new employment, faster economic growth and certainly a higher standard for citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70453	Thank you. Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70454	I thank you, Mr. President. Dear Proposers I am extremely pleased that today we have the opportunity to discuss these guidelines which I de facto understand as an initiative to even talk about this subject and to actually hear the public’s thoughts and attitudes. I must admit that unlike my colleagues, I did not take this as any legal framework on which jobs could take place. I see it more as some principled thing that we should just follow some legal frameworks modeling Germany. So to create one set of secondary laws within which those articles that are today make it impossible to apply this public-private partnership or to define those articles that will enable it. I would like to say, for example, that it would be important to establish itself, to reduce or make it easier on sales taxes. To eliminate sales tax under such circumstances. Or, say, create circumstances that don't pay VAT on VAT when you go, when you're looking for a financier in some financial institutions. So according to the example of Germany, I think there will still be one legal framework, or one legal act, that will then serve to enable the application of this model. I model of course it's very good or I'd rather say that here we're talking about several different models and that might be what led most to the different approach of MPs here. Maybe it wasn't clear enough in the opening speech that this is simply about different types of public-private partnership and these guidelines actually say that. In there, different possibilities are opened how and in what way will this be realized? What was mentioned and dragged through today's debate was stories about the Sun Hvar. Of course I don't think there's any need to focus on that subject. Simply attractive projects that are self-attractive should not even work in this model. This is primarily about what is important for the development of standards either communal or social standards in units of local self-government that are burdened by various gifts and their budgets are relatively small. In order to achieve any social further development at all, so that we can get more educated people in some environments, so that the level of education in Croatia reaches 35% of highly educated people. The prerequisite for that is that we have schools. How are we going to achieve schools and schooling people if the building, so school as a school, we don't have an institution. So, there's someone investing in the long term. So in order to improve quality and in order to get higher over a larger number of years, we are getting more investment back from that unit of local self-government. That seems crucial to me. It is therefore essential that these projects and the PPP or public private partnership apply to those projects that are development accelerators, not to those projects that are consumption projects. I think that there is certainly an appeal to the advice of every single or mayor or mayor to decide on it, and maybe that is the painful and most sensitive point. But I think that through the agency and through the control and restrictions on how much someone can be in charge that there will be this corridor that will keep an eye on every unit of local self-government. What I'd like to say here, unlike maybe my predecessors, is this is just the immediate discharge of the current borrowing of a city. Because the investment is realised by this model doesn't count on current borrowing. That's the only difference. So it's not like he won't be in charge. Of course, it will only be a question and, of course, the spirit as a ghost will remain but the form will be different. So it's not going to go into capital, it's going to go into current borrowings, so as such, it's going to be possible to realize it for more years. Also, the 30-year-old border seems too long. When you put it in, when you go with the investment and you project it for a number of years, you will see that in 15 years you will have to pay back so much and so much money, and in 30 years, this return will become exponentially larger. And now there's going to be an optimal year of return. Not every investment should be for 30 years. Up to 30 years, only those maximum investments go. These others that are realistically possible to extract should be found at an optimal point to allow borrowing. So not every borrowing goes on top of the deadline. There's something else I'd like to say anyway. I mean, I've been doing this kind of project, and I think those elements are familiar to me. What seems to me to me today is still a great lack of the Law on Public Procurement at least in the time of last government did not allow competition for construction and financing but limited things to construction only. It's a key thing to change in public, according to the model of public private partnership because you can't go into the type of competition through the Public Procurement Act at the time. You can go differently but not through that law because then it did not allow you to compete for someone who would parallel and finance but only for those who would perform. I wouldn't stress all the other advantages of this project. I think some colleagues have already said that it is applied outside and that the British applied it most and that there are different forms of Bot, from PFE, etc. These are the models that are closest to us and we're talking about right now. I would just like to mention perhaps some advantages in the sense that the concessionary has the capital of the participants to finance the design, construction, equipment, that the payment from the investors starts only when the object starts to be exploited. So there is no grace period but this grace period is already included practically in that, that the concessionary is responsible and bear the cost of complete maintenance which is, of course, one complex model of bargaining but therefore gives a lot more for all permanent concessions. That the investor transfers almost all the risk, I won't say all the risk but most of the risk, but the complete risk of not quality as a result of errors to the concessionaire. So that payment can be used in equal wars, so you need to find that model whether it is better to return immediately, whether it returns evenly or returns to the end more and at the beginning less. This should also be assessed on the type of project that depends on whether it returns money or does not return money on a long or short period. That the transparency of the whole process is that the concessionary is fully responsible for all the mistakes that have occurred especially for the fusches that are very often the fate of our construction and that the investor gets the maximum quality for the money invested, i.e.... which is one so slogan. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] What is a restriction on the PTP or public private partnership is that the reduction of work is a very complex job, that we do not have experience with this so-called. maintenance period. So, which would be optimal if we could contract both construction and maintenance. We don't have those contracts except we translated them from English, but they're far from what makes our everyday life and our practice. That we're being realistic costs are for preparing and planning the construction of this model significantly higher, but it's practically in the long term significantly smaller and perhaps there's only one thing to say that from these guidelines to the realization of the first projects is one very difficult job and I'm not afraid that many units of local self-government will be able to realize it. So let's not be afraid in advance. And maybe another note. I've given something in the way of the amendment, and now we're going to ignore it. Of course, the amendments don't go to the guidelines. But I think there's really two mistakes there, and I'm not going to say there's mistakes, but there's one outside that I've been talking about. I let you think about it one more time because the fact is that when you sell someone something for me, it's a done legal job, it's a legal job, and then it's owned by a new owner and the new owner registers, and then he enters with his property into a new business of public private partnership again. If you stand there for a term of fruit of enjoyment, that means using that property as you use the fruits, whether it is a building or a land. So while you're using the content that they're making. I think it's such a legal difference. Since we are very sensitive in Croatia to these terms of sales and alienation, I think it would be worth keeping an eye on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70455	Thank you. I'm sorry about this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70456	The amendment cannot go because it simply does not satisfy the form. As far as I knew in the conversation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70457	Dear representative, thank you for your proposal. Vesna Scare Ozbolt. She's gone. He's losing his word. Final review of Deputy Prime Minister Damir Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70458	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. First of all, I would like to say that I am very sorry that there are not all those who have debated, particularly the president today, or representative of the Representatives' Club, because I have carefully and carefully recorded all the comments, suggestions, suggestions that you so wish to actually draw attention to and improve this document. I hope they get what I'm going to say, and I'm going to talk about the most about the parts that they've had their comments on. First of all, I think it is entirely irrelevant whether we are now starting with public private partnerships and projects of public private partnerships, whether this started two, three years ago, whether they were the first of the Varazdins or were the first of them being the Koprivnicans, it is entirely irrelevant. The fact is that there are a number of projects that can definitely come under public private partnership models implemented in Croatia, implemented in '93, '94, '95. years until today. But it is also the fact that this Croatian government is the first one who dares to deal with this problem and define the rules of the game in the way we propose here. Why the guidelines? Yes, it is true, we started by making the Law on Public Private Partnership. Then we started to think about the regulation on public private partnership and in this process, I am really sorry that there is no respected Mr Letica, I would like to tell him in this process before we have made a definitive decision that it will be guidelines we have learned but just about all the laws of the Member States of the European Union and also of the candidate countries, we have also studied other legal, other frameworks that define ways of acting and are not legal frameworks, so also guidelines that bring certain other countries. I have here a list of all countries, Austria, Denmark, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Cyprus, Latvia, Malta, Slovakia at this time have no legal solution at all. They have no laws or regulations or guidelines. Slovakia is the only one who currently has a proposal for guidelines that their parliament will bring. I can also read to you how many countries have special sublaws that lay down the rules of the game in the establishment of public private partnerships, and only a small, small number of those countries that have strict laws. Our negotiating team for the area of public procurement has definitely received a clear guidance and guidance from the European Commission, define guidelines for a public private partnership. And that's why we decided on guidelines, not the law. Define the guidelines now, the European Commission will give guidance on how to regulate this area legally in the future. Some say that we have mistranslated some documents that regulate this area in the European Union, such as Green Paper or European Commission guidelines. I have to say, there's no way I can accept it. And I also cannot accept the conclusion that different stakeholders have worked on this. We must say that this has been done by a working group of members who are mayors, mayors, but also by three ministers of the Croatian government, but that behind us has worked a whole series of experts who are the most competent persons in the field of public private partnership in Croatia and have experience gained abroad. Here with us is Mr. Saša Marinjak, doctor, the only expert in Croatia who doctored in the field of public private partnership in Great Britain. Well, I think you'll agree with me one extra quality and seriousness to this material. Therefore, I cannot accept the flat rate that we are not professional enough and that some stakeholders have done so and that there is not enough seriousness in all of this. Which areas are therefore recommended? For which infrastructure projects are public private partnership models recommended? I'll count them down one more time. Schools, hotels, hospitals, housing, courts, prisons, defense facilities, water supply systems, roads, railways. Not necessarily in that order and not necessarily that I counted absolutely everything. There are broad possibilities of using these models. What are the basic objectives? The main goal is that we, in a very short time period of five years, will be able to build as many infrastructure facilities as we would build in 25 years. It shows not only our estimates. This shows the experiences of other countries that have ten years, 15 years or 20 years of experience in these models. Therefore, the first and most basic objective is to accelerate the construction of infrastructure projects. The other great goal is thanks to competences, thanks to knowledge and skills that have been accumulated more in the private sector, to bring ourselves into a situation where we have more quality construction, better design, better quality construction and that our total costs, and yet I am sorry that there is no Mr Letica, the total cost of designing construction but also later maintenance and management of this building are lower. I can't say that statistics show it and I keep correcting my colleagues and associates who worked with me on these guidelines. We can't say that statistics show that building, designing and managing buildings like this are cheaper than 17 to 20%. But the estimates definitely show that and the experiences of countries that have 15 years of experience. Therefore, two objectives, the acceleration of construction and the second objective of more efficient construction and efficient management with the overall lower cost of building and managing and maintaining these systems. We've given every possible definition in the guidelines. We gave in Chapter 3 and noted that these are forms of a public private partnership. And we said very clearly, there are institutional forms, so... and that we're talking about and there are contractual forms. [[The speaker speaks English, not understood.]] And we divide contractual forms into concession models and divide them into models that can be subdued under a private financial initiative. These guidelines define the rules of the game exclusively in the case of contractual forms of public private partnership. It was not our intention to define these guidelines the rules of the game code... or joint investments. [[The speaker speaks English, not understood.]] I think the laws that apply in this country are well-processed at this point. Therefore, these guidelines relate exclusively to contractual forms of public private partnership. We're introducing a new institute, it's true. We are introducing a competition dialogue in negotiations with a potential private partner. Why? It's very simple. Because we want to give the public partner an additional tool in hand to improve its position and eventually reach a contract and a relationship that will just protect his interests and lead to the maximum use of the benefits. We have listed all the elements of the public private partnership agreement that must be contained. I am also talking about why I insist on the words of the obligation, which will be created under the public private partnership agreement, is not an obligation and under which conditions is not the responsibility of the units of local self-government. Theorostat has not invented anything, Eurostat defines this area and speaks very clearly and precisely about how public private partnerships can be treated according to the principles of operational rental in cases where risks are clearly shared. The risk of designing and building must be assumed by a private partner and one of two very important risks, which are the risk of availability and risk of variation in demand. One of these two risks must also be taken over by the private partner and in this case the building that is built does not enter the public partner balance and the obligation created does not constitute a liability but rather a obligation of the units of local or regional self-government or a better public partner. And now we're coming up with something that I especially want to draw attention to. I'm sorry there is no honourable parliamentary representative of Mr. Mr. Grić here. Today he says that we have installed something in the guidelines that we did not agree on during the work of our task force, or commission to which he is a member. It's just not like that. My proposal in the draft guidelines was that the total commitments, that the public partner could enter into new public private partnerships if the total liabilities for all the public partnerships concluded do not exceed 25% of the budget revenue achieved from the previous year reduced for capital revenues. Right on Mr. Mršić's argument, Mr. Cacic was installed 35%. The same article, which mentions 35%, clearly noted the role of the Ministry of Finance. So it was in the first draft of the material. From then on, we had three working group meetings where we discussed it. Therefore, there is not a single comma or point that is not agreed on by the Commission. I'm sorry if someone didn't read the material and he didn't understand it well enough. And why do we need this particular role of the Ministry of Finance that must ultimately give the green light for each project? Because public private partnership projects can be entered in a case where the public partner has budgetary capacity. If there are, then he can think and move in this direction. Now someone has to be a controller, someone has to be a filter. We think it has to be the Ministry of Finance. Why? Because we have a whole series of local self-government units that have already been very in charge because certain units of local self-government are already unable to raise loans today because they have already raised them for other purposes, because certain units of local self-government have already entrusted companies that have owned them or even created new businesses, so they have also committed these new companies and have no budget revenues, and now for such models of the public private partnership, they are certainly not spirit movens, certainly not something that solves all their problems because and the obligations that they will create will, of course, have to subdue them. Finally, believe me, we have analyzed this once again, all the laws, regulations or guidelines that many others have adopted, many other countries of the European Union. I think that this material is not lagging behind but that it is better than most of the frameworks that regulate the rules of play in these areas in other European Union countries. I think that in this way the procedures defined in the conduct of a public private partnership contract provide great chances for us to build so many necessary infrastructure projects in a very short period of time and, therefore, I ask you to give your support to these guidelines. Maybe it's not the new part, but it's not far from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70459	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, a respected representative of Alenka Kočica Chicin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70460	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Polancec, I would only correct two brief allegations. One that applies when you say that even such guidelines have not been adopted in many countries, I would still manage instead of Malta, Germany, and I think that this should be a better example and a template for us than perhaps other European Union countries for the sake of this very structured way that the Germans do. Thus, the secondary legislative legislation which precisely defines how this JPP will be implemented. And the second correction of the quote will build objects over 25 years that would otherwise be built for 25 years, we'll build it right now. I agree, of course, that they are exactly and only those projects that will bring us back to the budget very quickly and return profits that we do not have spending in consumption but that we have spending in what makes us a capital investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70461	This is a good suggestion. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70462	I would have corrected a colleague of Polancec who said that nothing was added to what was on the commission. So on page 1 in Chapter I, point 5. Last sentence: "Controlling this provision will be implemented by the Ministry of Finance" was added after the working group meeting, that's one thing. Secondly, we agreed on a working group that the agency would carry out the entire control mechanism and that only the Agency's opinion would be needed. The law on the implementation of the state budget introduces something called the consent of the Ministry of Finance. We discussed it several times on the task force and said that the government agency, which the government will set up, would even discuss with the Ministry of Finance. We said we're not going to set up anything special, it's going to be an investment-enhancing agency. What's being introduced into the State Budget Act is contrary to what we agreed. The guidelines are okay. but the law on the implementation of the state budget does not comply with the guidelines.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u70463	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this point. I'm interrupting the session. Resume at 3:00, vote. Proposal for a guideline for the application of contractual forms of public private partnership. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction, I am voting on the following conclusion: guidelines for the application of the contractual forms of public private partnership shall be adopted. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 81 votes for, 10 abstentions accepted the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71774	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. At the 44th session held on 6 July 2006, the selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament identified the proposal for a decision to appoint the governor of the Croatian National Bank. The governor of the Croatian National Bank is named Željko Rohatinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71775	I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go. Mira, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71776	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Please, a little peace. You know the position of the Croatian Party Club of Rights, which was also said by the party president when we discussed the report on the work of the Croatian National Bank for the past year. So, basically, the governor submitted for the whole period from 2000 to 2006. The Croatian Party of Rights, the Croatian Party of Rights Club is not satisfied with the way and the monetary policy itself that the Croatian National Bank has implemented for 6 years. In fact, this monetary policy was at least in the role of Croatia's interest, Croatian national interests. First of all, it was in the interest of import lobbys and the interest of foreign banking lobbys. The National Bank didn't play that role it was supposed to play there. We know for ourselves.../The speaker shut down and reactivated./... Please don't turn me off! From Zagreb, what was the situation with the Rijeka Bank? Therefore, such a way of conducting monetary policy is not Croatian, and therefore we have made an open statement and did not accept the report. So, the Croatian Party of Rights Club has no objection, personally against Mr. Rohatinski, but we can't.../The speaker has shut down and turned himself back on./... Mr. President, I'm asking you to allow me. So, the Croatian Party of Rights Club, unlike the rest of you, cannot give advance Bianca support because we appoint the entire team as governor. We don't know what the strategy will be. So it's de facto governor, when you name him today he proposes a team. So we call today an act the whole team. We do not know whether the strategy will continue to be anti-Croatian, whether it will be in the function of import lobbys. I beg your pardon? So we don't know, I guess it would be a turn if the governor himself, or the person who's proposed to be governor, had given the part he's planning to name, given one part of the strategy, everything else. So we can't give any more support to anyone in this country and that's why I repeat, we have nothing against Mr. Rohatinski's person but we can't support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71777	Calm down, colleagues, so please, a few! Why are you doing this? Anyone else want to discuss this? I am voting on a motion for a decision for governor of the National Bank, the Croatian National Bank of Zeljko Rohatinski. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? It's beyond any taste or measure. The behavior of a few is indeed on one envious level. With 82 votes for, 3 abstentions, 5 against the governor of the Croatian National Bank was named Zeljko Rohatinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71778	At its 44th session held on 6 July 2006, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out a proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of a member of the National Committee. First, a member of the National Committee, Anto Djapic, is dismissed. And secondly, as a member of the National Committee, Tonči Tadic is named.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71779	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 88 votes for, 2 abstentions, the proposed decision was made. Please move on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71780	At its 44th session held on 6 July 2006, the Committee for Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out a proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of a member of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament, Ivan Vukic, is dismissed. Secondly, a member of the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament is elected Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71781	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 85 votes for, 3 abstentions, the proposed decision was made. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71782	At its 44th session held on 6 July 2006, the Committee for Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out a proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Committee for Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Committee for Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament Ivan Vukic is dismissed. And secondly, an Anto Bagarić is elected as a member of the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71783	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. The result? With 77 votes for, 6 abstentions and 1 against, the proposed decision was made. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71784	Thank you. At the 44th session held on 6 July 2006, the selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament identified the proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of a member of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health of the Croatian Parliament. First, get rid of a member of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health of the Croatian Assembly from the ranks of representatives of the multi-level union Dušanka Marinković Drac. And secondly, for a member of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health of the Croatian Assembly from the ranks of representatives of the multi-level union is called the Memorial... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71785	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposed decision. Please vote. The result? With 70 votes for, 15 abstentions, the proposed decision was made. We have another decision, and this is a proposal for a decision to appoint part of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency. At its meeting, the government set out a proposal for a decision to appoint part of the Board of Directors of the Reporting, HINA and Božkok from the media expert Dijan Katicam, Drazen Jovic and Ivan Rusan from the order of economic and legal and information experts. That's what you have a proposal for a decision to appoint in favor. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Antun Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71786	Mr. President, on behalf of the club, not as Antun Vujic but on behalf of the club, we believe it is not possible to vote on this proposal because the proposal did not go through the procedure. Among other things, this would be an infringement of the Law on HINA Article 12, which directly states that the opinion of the relevant parliamentary committee is needed. This was not on the parliamentary committee which is in charge, and only the Committee on Information, Information and Media can be responsible, because what else would that title mean if it were not in charge of both. Therefore, I ask you to withdraw this proposal until the procedure is carried out. At the same time, this does not imply any special relationship to these proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71787	You're saying that the HINA Act is Article 12. ... It wasn't? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The board? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Meet the board on Monday, chairman of the board. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Secondly, the board president will convene a committee Monday. Secondly, we continue Tuesday's session with discussions on these four final proposals for health laws. After that, we will interrupt the debate on these proposals and vote at 12 o'clock on the amendments and additions to the 2006 budget and the Law on the implementation of the State Budget continue to discuss others in the agenda of the established points. We are still going to discuss one point today, which is - a proposal for a decision to appoint part of the board of directors of HINA. The proposal for a decision was submitted in accordance with Articles 11 and 12. The law on Croatia reports to the government news agency. You received a proposal for an act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture Jadran Antolovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71789	Thank you, Mr. President. So, as you said in accordance with Articles 11 and 12. The HINA Act has been called for a new mandate for members of the Administrative Council of HINA and of the candidates reported, according to the law, the Government has sent a proposal to the Assembly for the appointment of that part of the members made up of experts, while for the employee representative, since the proposal has not been legally implemented, the proposal will be submitted subsequently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71790	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The Committee on Information, Information and Media? There isn't. SDP representative club, respected representative Antun Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71791	Thank you, Mr. President. When I asked you on behalf of the club the other day, Mr. President, to return to the board to discuss this proposal, it seems that I was absolutely right and I thank you for doing this because otherwise perhaps you would not only respect the law and procedure of the assembly but you would not even know what the proposal is. So now we are still able to say what we think about it and that regardless of the number of votes, hands or I don't know what we're warning about the seriousness of this proposal and the consequences of this proposal that we're talking about here. So, as we all know recently, a report has been discussed precisely this administrative council of HINA which has received the most flattering grades in this same House. In this report, of course, the very important influence of the Administrative Council itself, which was at the time when it was drawn up, is made up of the most qualified people, and among other things one of the experienced man and lawyer such as Jadranko Crnić, the President of the Constitutional Court, then a number of other prominent colleagues from Davor Vashček, who is a prominent economist, Mrs Nada Zgrapic, who is a professor of media precisely, etc. We couldn't assume or believe that the government would use its right to rename in such a way as not to respect what is very important to each good manager, and that is certain... , experience and when we agree with those who have achieved a positive experience and then, of course, we expected that such people would continue to be chosen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But something completely opposite happened. Mr. Jadranko Crnić, Mr. mr. Davor Vashek, Mrs. Dr. Hope Zgrapic was left out even though they responded to the competition, and the three representatives of four were appointed, which we will now present some things so that I think the public hears what it is. Since the HINA Act directly lists the conditions that need to be met in order for someone to be a member of the Administrative Council to allow me to warn you, it would have to meet, which, one of those three members, each would have to meet, or each of them for one area of economic and financial, legal and IT experts. In the proposal that is here, there is only one person who covers this criterion, it is Mr. Russan who has been and has been an IT expert so far and we have no objections to the SDP club. However, Mrs. Diana Katica and Mr. Drazen Jovic cannot by any standard be treated as experts. They should be experts in the following areas, in economic and financial areas and in legal areas. We assume that for legal areas it is one who has graduated law, it is Mr. Jovic, but we cannot assume that an expert could be someone who has graduated from law only the other day so to say a few years ago and who in his entire biography of professional matters lists only one thing, which is a state expert exam. So if someone who is a lawyer doesn't even have a judicial exam, then how can he be treated as an expert and still replace Mr. Jadranko Crnić, who was the president of the court? I think this is literally a cartoon replacement, I have nothing against nor any of us against any of those gentlemen personally, but I think the criteria are criteria. If this Parliament allows them to fall so low in such an important area as information, so information and media, then I really think that we have acted or that we have returned to one page of policy that will not be new but which is old, which has given already known and catastrophic results. The other lady, Mrs. Diana Katica, is probably a valuable veterinary expert. It should, however, cover an economic-financial area here. By what criteria does someone who is a good veterinary expert, I do not say, nor can we know, we assume, by what criteria he can represent an expert in the order of economic and finance etc. areas? Which line? So it's a direct pardon for playing this law because a veterinarian can't represent an expert in economic and financial affairs at all, and someone who doesn't even have a judicial exam can't represent an expert in the legal field, and in parallel with those that we left out the gap, an even bigger and more amazing split. And at the end of the third person, it's Mr. Skoko. Mr. Skoko is a professor of media and we don't enter his meditation in this regard at all, he is, but Mr. Skoko is in the Management Council of the company that deals with the PR among others and for some of the present, today may not be sitting here pointing out that I am telling my representative not to title them differently. Therefore, someone who is in the management of such a company can at the same time be in the Governing Council of HINA, it is directly incompatible because it absolutely implies that he is involved in the affairs of political inter alia propaganda and that he is sitting in a council that would be just as important independent of any kind of addiction. Article 5 directly states: "HINA must not be exposed to any influence that could compromise the accuracy, objectivity or credibility of its information HINA must not, in fact or legally, come under the ownership or other interest control of any ideological, political or economic group." For certain categories of political workers in the elections or at any time independently, the PR represents a directly interested political group. I mean, what else would he do with the PR for that person and that person if it wasn't his interest? You gentlemen can vote these people, but I think it's very clear from everything that this place didn't want to support HINA in the same praises that we nominally gave them, but so we took them away realistically and led them into a situation of obedience because unprofessional people who were put in this way can't do anything but listen to those who put them there. If, then, on HINA, we are unable to reach a consensus like this that we do not have to say to outsmart who is an expert and who is not an expert then distinguished HDZ colleagues, I do not know how we will be responsible for this country and for its fate, and in a segment particularly delicate and these are media and information space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71792	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71793	Honorable Vice President, esteemed Secretary of State, Honorable Mr. Representatives! So here's the lead on Mr. Vujic's discussion two, three words. Mr. Crnić is an institution. If someone should have something against Mr. Crnić, then it was the IDS because of the Statute of the County of Istria, because of its timely polemics with the Constitutional Court, etc., but Mr. Crnić characterised one period, it was, correct me if I was wrong, for ten years the President of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, citizens were more than satisfied with his work, the pensioners should be especially, at this time when the sale of public property began to repay their debt and Mr. Crnić was a guarantee of such legal perseverance at the time when the rule of law was not tabled here and precisely because of all of this and the elevacy and HINA itself but himself here for this speaker should be protected. HINA is all going to agree on an important institution and we will also admit that Mr. Crnić in that institution in HINA has done his job more than honestly so far. And then the question arises why today would a former judge of the Constitutional Court suddenly retire. Let's take an absolute chance for the younger but these younger ones must be as Mr. Vujic said equally then capable. And what is equally important, these younger ones must also guarantee the independence of that institution, must guarantee the integrity of that institution or HINA, and we all agree that these individuals who propose themselves will hardly be able to do so. And so many Mr. Crnićs need to confirm and reject all speculations that can be tied to his name at this time. No one should be clearly offended but everyone should admit to Mr Crnić that he did his job correctly both in the Constitutional Court and in the Red Cross, I don't know, in HINA and where he was already so only concerned about the dignity of the people who will represent one institution we can also support HINA. If we don't do this, I think that not only will her dignity come into question, but it will question the credibility of one and perhaps the leading Croatian media, and if that happens, then it will be a disaster of fair information for the entire Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71794	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71795	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This incomprehensible proposal coming from the government is actually one continuity of the relationship between the ruling party and the government it makes with the media in Croatia in general. It started with a debate about the HRT report. It continued with the relationship to the Vjesnik house, which we warned through this impelation. And now it's heading towards HINA. An unhidden desire to control public media in Croatia. That's what I'd dare say in an almost shameless manner, as was the shameless discussion of the HRT report, those outrageous attacks, such as the shameless attitude towards the House "Wiznik". Now, what are we experiencing? Who answered this public call? He reported among other two doctors of science, Dr. Jadranko Crnic and Dr. Nada Zgrapic. Who has anything to object to Dr. Jadranka Crnić and his work so far in the Governing Council of HINA? He's not a man enough legal expert, he needs to be replaced by someone who in his biography states he has only passed a state exam and completed a law school. He will be more expert than Jadranka Crnić. That's what the government says. Dr. Nada Zgrapic, who has been in the media for years, an international expert. Those governments are no good. That's where one of the HINA shirts is made for me. And I don't know now whether the respectable people in this country deserve any attention, but not at all, does anyone who represents anything in this country, who has a attitude, who has a spine, who has a name, who has a reputation, do they all have to bother this government, do they really need to be driven because that's the essence of this proposal? Look, you have a parliamentary majority, you can vote whoever you want, even if that appointment is illegal, and this will be if we vote it. This is gonna be against the law. Because he doesn't comply with the provisions of the HINA Act. It doesn't seem to concern this government. She seems to feel obstinate enough that she can go past the law, through the law, completely volunteering. Now let's set our men up, no matter what he doesn't meet the conditions, no matter what we embarrass the country with. Well, no matter what we let everyone know clearly, everyone. The government and HDZ want to lord HINA as well. Do you know what HINA is? Do you know what HINA is? Well, that's one institution we all have to be proud of. The agency that started doing business in 1990, which spread the truth about the war in Croatia, about all the troubles we've been going through. Which was a guarantee of an independent reporting. When the late President Tudjman went on his first visit to the United States... HINA said, "Publish that I will be received by the American president." He replied, "We will when he sees you." So HINA began. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Right away, from day one. She has shown that she will not, that she is not interested in any political pressures, that she will resist them. Now you people who have helped HINA become what you are moving. You don't accept their candidacys. Dr. Crnić is not a respectable person enough for you. I fear the government has been embarrassed by such a proposal, and the parliamentary majority will be disgraced if this proposal is accepted. I suggest that the government withdraw it, withdraw it because it is the only way to try to preserve face to the Croatian public and to the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71796	Thank you. Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71797	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I didn't go on behalf of the Club, but I'm going on my own personal behalf because I'm a member of the Committee on Information, Information and Media and that committee, and I've been restrained and I just want to explain why? First of all, I do not dispute the HDZ gentlemen that this mandate is now being appointed as they wish, as they can name anyone there. It's normally their legal right. Their mandate has expired, others need to be appointed, and HDZ can do it in a way, can name whoever they want, they don't even have the knowledge they need for those appointments, and I don't mention it to HDZ as a legalist. The second thing is why, how is it done after the situation when we accepted the report of that same, this current board of directors, actually the board of directors on their way out. It is therefore the administrative council that has received the trust of our parliamentary representatives and is expected that this administrative council remains. So that's two things that are completely contradictory and I expected today at this session that we're going to get an explanation why you're naming other people? 'Cause on the board, we got life-forms at the last minute. I don't want to talk about people at all about their résumés, but then, since I haven't read the résumés, I couldn't even decide whether to name myself new or to stay existing. And given both of us and that we accepted the report and gave them the trust and the fact that HDZ has the right to name whoever it wants after what we haven't received again today, it seems to me that this is the continuation of that policy that was being implemented in Slavonia, and I believe in the rest of Croatia when people were being changed, named with one single sentence, and that is: "You're not the man who can implement HDZ's hard policy, you have to leave." And after this today's explanation, I am sorry that I haven't yet raised my hand against it because you haven't said why you appoint other people today, and especially after yesterday, when we turned 70 to 100 people from state officials, it seems to me that the HDZ policy remains equal and that you haven't moved against the crumple despite what the prime minister tells quite another story.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71798	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71799	I would like to correct one in my opinion Mr. Kapraljevic's incorrect claim in the section when he says HDZ has the right to name whoever he wants. I don't think you could say that because HDZ has the right or parliamentary majority to name what is in accordance with the law. Here, two or three cases are not literally in line with the law because the law directs that they must be experts in the order of economic and legal experts. It's Article 10, and they're not, directly not, physically not. And Article 5, which states that a conflict of interest must be ruled out and there is a conflict of interest directly in here. I don't know what's more conflict of interest than a P.R. of some political party and... The board of directors of HINA. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Can you please tell me what's bigger than that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71800	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of the Mato Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71801	Mr. Vice President, I'm responding to exactly what my colleague Vujic was talking about. Namely, counterpart Kapraljevic says HDZ has the right to name whoever it wants. There really isn't. No matter what the vote is here, he certainly doesn't have it. This is about the fact that if the HINA Act did not act in accordance with that, then it cannot be treated against the law. Whether it's a parliamentary majority or anyone else. But it's not just about the law. This is simply a matter of national interest, a state interest which is related to HINA, its meaning and which is firmly arranged and determined and which is in a stable manner also with the power of the law something which must not be threatened or threatened. Therefore, my colleague Kapraljevic, I really believe that HDZ does not have the right on this occasion, regardless of what has the majority or to do the opposite of the law, nor to act contrary to what HINA is not only legal but de facto and de jure in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71802	Thank you. Let's hear it from the esteemed representative Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71803	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This society has proved on countless occasions that justice and justice have nothing to do with it. In this case, it's the same thing. HDZ with its partners has a majority. And I said no matter what the law says, it means they have to be from certain areas. HDZ may not have the right here in quotes I've put it right now but I can vote however it pleases because they have a sufficient number of hands. And the fact that it is of our interest, of Croatian interest, the Croatian news agency is also after this Croatia, this agency will no longer be Croatian, it will not be reported but will be the Croatian Democratic Community Agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71804	Replica esteemed representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71805	No, no, I was just about to point out that I'm guessing the lapus of my colleagues, Capraljevic, because I absolutely claim that it's one form, and the other is content. The HDZ as a party to power has the legal opportunity to implement the procedure in the way it considers best, but has no right to propose anyone at all. People who will be proposed and must be proposed are those who will guarantee objective and independent journalism. It's the content of what we expect and I really want to say if this continues with the appointment of people to such a sensitive administrative council, then it's not going to be H, I, or N, but just A, agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71806	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71807	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague, Doric, you said everything exactly, but there's one other thing. The HDZ has so far employed some 7,000 people in various public administration functions, and I don't know where not. If we had done so in that term, it would have been called rematchism, and this would probably also be called rematchism. But it's also a fact that in 2000 when we had the same right, when we had enough hands from the HDZ gentlemen had their suitcases stored and waited for them to leave. But no one told them to leave.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71808	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am concluding a debate on this agenda item. I interrupt the session and announce my vote at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71809	Elections, appointments and resolutions, chairman of the Committee on Selection and Designation and Administrative Affairs, Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71810	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament held at the 45th session held on 12 July 2006 unanimously set out a proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of a member of the National Committee. First, a member of the National Committee Ivan Čehok and second member of the National Committee is hereby appointed Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71811	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please vote. The result? With 94 votes in favour, one abstention of the proposed decision. Second, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71812	Thank you. The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament at the 45th session held on 12 July 2006 unanimously set out a proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of a member of the National Committee. First, a member of the National Committee Ivan Jakovčić and second member of the National Committee is hereby appointed Valter Brandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71813	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Please let the birds chirp. I am voting on the motion for a decision. We can vote. The result? With 97 votes, the proposed decision was unanimously taken. Proposal for appointment of Deputy Governor and Vice Governor of the Croatian National Bank. The proposal complies with Article 40(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Croatian National Bank Act was submitted by Croatian National Bank Governor Zeljko Rohatinski. Would you like to explain the proposal? Yeah. Governor of the Croatian National Bank Željko Rohatinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71814	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In view of the fact that the terms of office of the Deputy and the three Vice Governors of the CNB, based on this provision and Article 40(3), expires on 15 of this month. I propose to the CNB law the following candidates for these duties. Dr. Crescent. Boris Vujicic for Deputy Governor and Mr Tomislav Presjecan, Relja Bajetic and Davor Holjevac for HNB's Vice Governors. And I would also suggest that Mr. Cedo Balletic, former deputy governor of the CNB, be relieved of his duties due to the end of the term of office on his personal request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71815	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HSP representative club, respected representative Anto Djapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71816	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian party club will not support the proposed candidates for the deputy and vice-governments of the Croatian National Bank, especially if it is voted in the package. If voted individually, then we could accept one of the proposed candidates, the new candidate who has been proposed because the other candidates that were recently proposed by the governor of the Croatian National Bank, Mr Rohatinski, have thus far been vice-governments except for one who has been resolved by Mr Cedo Maletic. It is also because of the arguments that we have expressed in the first reading of the amendments to the Law on the Croatian National Bank that we have expressed reservations about the vote in the confidence of Mr Rohatinski that we have highlighted, not that we had something against Rohatinski as governor, but rather what composition and proposal for complete management of the leadership of the Croatian National Bank, which Mr. Governor should propose and ours are to say, I will not say fear,... justified because practically the same management that we estimate is responsible for the business of the Croatian National Bank which we have not rated enough quality remains practically in the next period. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There will be more talks on this topic in the second reading of amendments and additions to the Law on the Croatian National Bank, but we hold that, if I did not speak ad homeim, I have no intention of speaking in such a way, but that the fact that this management was involved in the launch, implementation and I would say the final phase of the sale of the Croatian banking system, that today more than 10% of the banking system is not in the hands of Croatian banks, only about 4, 4 and a half percent, that these managements are responsible for the recovery and sale of... The bank, that the scenario by which the CNB sent certain banks into bankruptcy, that I'm not telling the whole story now, is going to be saying a lot of speeches. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Just to state the reasons why we can't support this proposed old management that, old or new management proposed by Mr. Rohatinski, not to mention the results of managing temporary managers and a whole series of questions from... The Croatian Parliament, I will set an example there, which is why we cannot give this team any support that it has been since 14 June 2002. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Croatian Parliament is obliged to conclude that the CNB is in charge of the loan to the manager and the documentation on the possible legality of delivery to the State's attorney. The execution of the task was very interesting that at the place of work of the inspector who is therefore only competent and competent and authorised because the banks sent a letter to the CNB to the tables which were to be filled out by the banks themselves and clearly that the banks had said that their business was excellent. We have an unprecedented contradiction that says that according to the State Auditor's report on the privatisation of a large majority of 80% of banks, i.e. the pardoned companies, there have been errors compared to the law and most of them are privatised with the help of management loans and the largest number of companies ended up in bankruptcy until, according to the Croatian National Bank report, in the manner in which this report was translated in approving the repayment of the management loan, the illegalities have not been established. So, there are a whole series of things that make us as the Croatian party of rights, our club cannot give support to this new composition of leadership or the old composition of the leadership of the Croatian National Bank but I say if it votes individually then we would support a new one, give a chance to the new Vice Governor, it is Mr. Holjevac, and regarding that I can immediately tell Mr. President only one second about the advice, the external advisors of the CNB, that we will support... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71817	We'll do that later. Representative Miomir Zuzul. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71818	Dear Mr. President, fellow MPs! I'm going to support all the proposed candidates and I think it's really about quality candidates. However, in the résumé of a candidate, I hope it is by chance something that I really don't think should be particularly in the category in which it is. Namely, under one candidate's education there is military service and JNA in Ljubljana, Slovenia. Not giving it any connotations because I believe not even the candidate gave them I don't think that JNA was an educational institution and that it could be in the résumé of candidates for such a serious function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71819	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please, let's get on with it. The result? With 90 votes in favour and 5 abstentions, 5 against the pardons of the proposed decision. I am giving the vote and the motion for a decision that goes with this decision to take effect, the decision shall take effect and shall take office as appointed deputy and vice governors on 16 July. Please, let's get on with it. The result? I find that with 89 votes for, 2 abstentions and 3 against the decision by which the deputy governor and vice governors elected take office on 16 July 2006. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, external members of the Council of the Croatian National Bank should also be selected. External members of the Council of the Croatian National Bank shall be appointed by the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs and with the opinion of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. The parties have held certain inter-party consultations on these elections for the external members of the Croatian National Bank Council but this should continue to be passed through the Committee on Elections and Designs and with the opinion of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, and I therefore set out a ten-minute session of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs in Hall 133 of Stjepan Radić and the Committee on Finance in the Office of the Chairman of the Šima Prtnječa Board. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing with the session to re-absorb these two points we have. The selection of external members of the Croatian National Bank Council is now on the agenda. The Committee is multiplying, the Committee has established, the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs has set out at this session just before its one proposal, with a preliminary opinion given by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Interparty consultations were to be carried out. A formulation has been written in the Committee on Selection and Designation that, on the basis of inter-party consultations, which is only partly because it has not been published in full, so please explain the proposal to the chairman of the Committee Nevenka Majdanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71821	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here is a proposal for a decision on the appointment of external members of the Council of the Croatian National Bank which is proposed by the Committee for Elections, Designation, Administrative Affairs at the session currently held. Under the first name of the external members of the Council of the Croatian National Bank: Željko Lovrinčević, Sandra Švaljek, Vlado Leko, Jure Šimović, Branimir Lokin, Mladen Vedrish, Boris Cota, Silvija Orsag. 2. The appointed external members of the Croatian National Bank Council take office on 16 July 2006. 3. Governor of the Croatian National Bank, Deputy Governor and Vice Governors are members of the Council of the Croatian National Bank in their position. Recital: Pursuant to Article 38(1) Law on the Croatian National Bank, National No. 36/01 in the text below... The Council of the Croatian National Banks shall consist of: Governor of the Croatian National Bank, Deputy Governor and Vice Governors in their position and no more than 8 external members. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] External members of the Council of the Croatian National Bank shall appoint the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament with the opinion of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament. We got a positive opinion on the calculation. Members of the Council of the Croatian National Bank shall be appointed at a time of 6 years, Article 40, paragraph 6. Members of the Council of the Croatian National Bank must be citizens of the Republic of Croatia with a recognised personal reputation and professional experience in monetary and financial and legal areas. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law to present external members of the Council of the Croatian National Bank stands out for a term of 6 years and has created the need to appoint members of the Council. The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament at the 46th session held on 13 July 2006 discussed the proposal, it wrote in the explanation of representatives' clubs in the Croatian Parliament on inter-party agreements, which is not entirely true. Here is the mistake, but here is the proposal of the Committee for Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament, which also suggests that most votes should therefore be accepted by the majority of votes, i.e. it sets out a proposal for a decision to appoint outside members of the Croatian National Bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71822	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71823	Dear President, it is an incorrect text that the president of the Committee on Elections and Appointments read here in front of the plenary session because it is not a text adopted at the session. ... Mostly [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Most of the votes in the Committee's session were adopted as follows: "The Clubs of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament proposed the inter-party agreement to the above-mentioned persons for the external members of the Council of the Croatian National Bank". [[I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please! So leave it alone!]] The majority of the Committee members voted in favour of that sentence in the text of the reasoning. Three articles of the Committee gave an opinion at this very session asking that this opinion be read: "Despite the fact that inter-party consultations have not been held, the Committee proposes what it proposes." Therefore, this report, as read, is incorrect and incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71824	Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71825	I am correcting the same incorrect allegations as my colleague Stazic because the Committee president read the explanation not of what was adopted at the Committee's session. So she skipped that sentence that, which said it was an inter-party agreement because my colleague Stazic and I and my colleague Doric asked for a precise opinion in the form in which he said Stazic. And I am also protesting this by reading from this pay phone an explanation that was not adopted at the Committee's session.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71826	President Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71827	The Committee has considered this proposal...... It's the Committee. [[We can't hear!]] The Committee considered this proposal for a decision that we had and most of the votes set out such a proposal for a decision. [[Don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't. Please don't use this tone, please don't use this tone.]] The fact that Agent Nenad Stazic said that he did not therefore ask for one and a particularly isolated opinion despite the fact that no inter-party agreement was reached as it was written in the explanation, but members of the Committee simply, yes, was an inter-party agreement but not all clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71828	You didn't do it, you didn't put it in the record. It's not on the record. We're not going to make this clear now. We're not going to make it any more clear about it. This should have been introduced, it is undeniable that it is not entered into the explanation that is the fact. Let's go to... Please! [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The Finance Committee, you're in? ......... Don't! [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Come on, please! Please, my colleague, come in. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71829	Only the last sentence, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided by majority of votes, mostly votes, 4 for, 2 against, 1 abstention to support the overwhelming external members of the CNB Council. Thank you very much. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71830	I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71831	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I apologize to all the clubs I couldn't call for consultations earlier because I didn't have any proposal, no paper in my hand, so we invited club representatives today to, I asked them to come to my office to maybe try to agree on that proposal. Most of the clubs except for the Serbian Democratic Party responded, were not present, but gave their consent. They were not representatives of the Croatian People's Party, so I gave them the materials later. On behalf of the SDP club was Mrs Milanka Opačić, who took note of the proposals and said she would consult at her club. After a few minutes, she said they couldn't accept the proposal. So, the consultations were. But they tried to have a good time. So here's the truth about it. It was something, though, after two hours, at two and a half hours we met. Here, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71832	Thank you. Honorable representative. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71833	Correction of an incorrect quote because counterpart Bebic says it was a consultation. There was a meeting where we were informed of the final proposal. The consultations would mean that we could take part in the agreement on so-called candidates and names of members of the external and proposing members of the CNB's external councils. This was all about the notice. We got a few names, a finished proposal from the HDZ Club, and before us, we put it in or you accept it or you refuse. It is, therefore, not a consultation but a notice.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71834	SDP club, the esteemed representative of the Mato Church. Let's end this session the way we are.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71835	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. We've heard here that there's been no respect for the procedure to be followed here, which has always been respected so far. And that's in the word when it is, and that's in the case of the Council of the Croatian National Bank. The Council of the Croatian National Bank is next to the governor the most important body of monetary authority in the country. This monetary authority in the country is a special authority. This Council, in particular its external members, must also be of expertise, but also the conscience of this Council, which this Assembly appoints and builds into the system of monetary authorities. The second moment we need here for responsibility for what we are doing today to the Parliament is the following. The monetary power is facing special challenges in Croatia at the moment. We have a situation in which the government has precisely stated that it is responsible and that it is responsible for the state budget and the government's borrowing and that external debt is, therefore, the total debt of the state is the problem of the Croatian National Bank. My colleagues and colleagues, this Council should oppose the government in such a wrong attitude. The external debt of Croatia is the problem of the state of Croatia and the government of Croatia, of course the National Bank. But the National Bank can't solve it. How will this Council oppose the wrong policy of the Croatian government when it is appointed by the government? Secondly, please, at this point please choose to ask the governor if it's worth the next one. A $27 billion foreign debt right now is such a challenge.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71836	Peace, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71837	It is such a challenge that, in relation to which monetary authority must act in a special way, gentlemen. No one in this country today, ask the governor can tell if the debt that today is being serviced by Croatia will be able to serve tomorrow. Isn't that the question of this Council? And isn't it... I'll answer that specifically. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] My colleague Djakic, I didn't do it because you and your government have increased that debt from 18 to 27 billion. Therefore,...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71838	Will there be peace, or will there be no peace? Why is he throwing himself away?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71839	The National Bank Council is therefore facing particular challenges today. He'll still be. At the end of this year, anything that grows up in Croatia as a social product will hardly be enough to pay the interest to be paid abroad. These new moments, and there are more of them, I have spoken of them and should not enter, require that, in relation to conscience, council and monetary authority at this point, they act extremely responsibly. And what do we do? We have not actually been able to respect that composition of this Council and interparty arrangements as it has always been agreed upon. In this council that is sitting now, there are also some people who are agreed in an inter-party arrangement. Then I suggested them. Therefore, the Council would have to express all that we together can best suggest in it. Unfortunately here are the proposed candidates from which some that we had the chance to speak can be both better and more competent. I can't argue, nor do I want these people who are here individually not people who have certain knowledge, but there are more competent, more capable people who are more up-to-date with the problems that monetary and economic policy is facing right now. So allow me, not even one member of the Committee on Finance, and the chairman of the Committee on Finance is sitting in this Council of the Croatian National Bank. He didn't know until this moment about who was proposed. So these are all moments that only cause me to do things, not because of people individually, because I don't want to talk about them. If there'd been an opportunity, we'd have suggested someone else. We'll be against this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71840	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71841	It is an incorrect assumption that the prescribed procedure is not respected. The law stipulates that the committee is proposing, the committee is proposing members of the Council of the Croatian National Bank and the Committee has done so. And last time, I was then a member of the Appointing Committee not all clubs were involved in proposing candidates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71842	Second correction, Honored Representative Tonci Tadic. He's giving up. Thank you. On behalf of the club of representatives of the HNS, respected representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71843	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I asked on the board and I didn't get an answer, I'd really like to get it now, who suggested these names. If the board, Mr. Jarnjak, is the one who proposes, then I guess we board members should be informed at least a day earlier that we will have a mission today at 5:15 p.m., to propose the names of members of the Council. I first learned that there was going to be a meeting of our committee when the president interrupted the session and said that the board went to Hall 133. So we didn't get an answer, we're really asking that this is never done again, because if the board is the one who proposes. Then who's proposing? They then propose parliamentary parties to their colleagues, as the committee is made up of parliamentary parties, by representatives of parliamentary parties. No parliamentary party here has had the opportunity to participate, at least as far as I know, those with whom I have spoken, obviously some have. We came before the final act, and we were told that in 10 minutes we must support those names. We had no colleagues and colleagues believe not even time to read the resume, let alone participate in the proposal. What more can I tell you, pal? What more can I tell you? Is this how it can be done?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71844	For the club of representatives of HSP, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71845	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, on behalf of the Croatian party's club, I must say that I expected such a harsh debate when we appointed a governor today when we appointed a team of governors. Because this team is the most important in all of this, and it is carrying on us what we said both the last time and with the Croatian National Bank's work report and the appointment of governors. That team stays the same, that's where you didn't object. Now you are rebelling for the Council, although the composition of the Council is far better quality. So the composition of the Council is far more quality than the composition of the governor and his team. And now that I'm a little, really it's a little bit of me now, now you're talking about debt, you're talking about this, that. What we were saying in the Croatian National Bank report, the governor did not file for the past year but submitted for the entire six years. I'm really interested in this ex-post mind, so instead of then supporting us, so everybody here, let's get a clear strategy of the person who was then... Today, the governor of the Croatian National Bank, to clearly tell us the strategy, where it will go, in what way it expects from the Croatian Parliament, what it expects from the Government, what it expects and what team it intends, what it expects from the Council. [[You don't understand.]] Now we're going back to one thing, and the Council is better than it was. So the Council is better than the composition of the team and the leadership... It is visible here that these are people who are Croatian and who are busy, have success behind all of this. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] If you'd said this before, look when I was talking then you'd been fucking me for hours and banging me, when I was talking about that part, you were shutting down my microphone and now you're saying what I was saying last session. I mean a really interesting case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71846	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Shima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71847	I would correct the incorrect assumption that we are not in favour of this proposal, given that it is an unquality staff, that is, as Mr Kovacevic said, which are more quality than the governor and vice governor. No, I don't. Since this procedure is done precedent in the Croatian Parliament, it is the first time that this type of body is not chosen for the first time, and in fact our protest refers to it, so the error in the procedure and Mr Kovacevic will not or won't understand it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71848	For the club of representatives of the SDSS, respected representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71849	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Because of the obligations that the representatives of the SDSS had during these consultations, we were unable to participate in these consultations, and we did not have the information needed to take our stand and this debate that we are having here is actually the first more serious information about what it is really about. Therefore, the reasons why the SDSS Club proposes to create consultations before this proposal is put to the vote in accordance with good practice and good practice around all similar bodies that we have so far, regardless of the quality issues of the people who are now proposed, but simply it is a mechanism that we respected in most cases, so it should be respected in this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71850	Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71851	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. They say democracy primarily means respect for procedure. Today we testify that we do not want to respect the procedure. It can't be called by consulting an invitation to hand over a list of names, without any basic information, a list of names. At the same time, the proposal for a Committee on Appointment also means possible party proposals on the Committee itself. If you think it's possible to suggest a name without having to hold talks with potential candidates first, then I appreciate that this is an unserious reflection on that term that you call party consultations. So we're given a list and what's the biggest problem today, we don't know whose proposal it is. Whose, who suggested it to the board. Who suggested it to the board? Do you rank, do you government? That's the question. Who suggested it? In fact, I believe that's what the government suggested. You know why? Because the chairman of the Finance Committee who should give consent also remained shocked by the list of names. He remained shocked, that was why he was restrained. He was restrained because he remained shocked with the signature, which means that even some bodies inside of us had no data. Now, I want to finish that argument of mys. This is still rape procedure, this is disrespect for our Rules of Procedure, and we're talking about a body called the Board of Governors. Therefore, the body that should function in some way and independently of, I would say, the policies and executive authorities, which should in some way be independent in its conduct of monetary policy, we are aware that ino debts are very high, that this is something that each of us and here are worried about, but we don't care who will discuss it. Who's actually going to make some strategies about it? We don't care. Unlike my colleague Kovacevic, I feel that we have a solid governor, that they are extraordinary and his team and, unlike him, maybe he thinks he knows more than I do, I don't mind. But I do appreciate, however, that they also very well explained the proposals for the monetary policy they led. Because each of us could have made our own conclusions, our own conclusions. So we can differ about thinking about certain people, I'm not defending anyone. Mr Kovacevic has his opinion, I have my own opinion but the procedure has been respected. And in submitting the report, the procedure and the proposal concerning the appointment of governors were followed by the procedure concerning the appointment of deputy and vice governors. So, we just have a different opinion. That's why we're raising differently, and voters judge which one of us is more wrong. But in this case, I am shocked because otherwise I hear very often Mr Kovacevic's interventions insisting on the procedure, the accuracy of this procedure, respecting what leads us, which is the Rules of Procedure. But I can see he's not interested in it today. I can see he's not interested in it today. And that's what's worrying. Why are we making mistakes? Why in this choice and ending, I'd say, we're in our session with unnecessary conflicts over the procedure. It's our fault. And I don't mind, let's be guilty, but at least say it's our fault. We don't mind if in the proposal of the Committee on Designation stands, HDZ has proposed, the government has proposed and all because it is Linic or SDP. We don't mind that either, but at least let it say that, at least then we know who's behind those suggestions. But imagine, you tried today at a meeting of the Board's Board members to conclude after the consultations were carried out, according to the club's proposal, this is their proposal to us. Therefore, at a committee meeting, representatives raise their hands, and if a colleague has warned, it is not true that it is a deal. It's not true that the consultation was translated. That's our agreement. No, most of our colleagues make a decision that this is consent, that a consultation has been conducted. So, we're in a position for party truths or party interests and such conclusions to write and then we need to intervene the vice president to try to change that. And gentlemen, why are we doing this? Is this a contribution to democracy, is this a contribution at all... /The speaker turned off, then subsequently turned on./ We just can't accept that it's behavior and that's why it clears up suspicions and suspicions about these people. How are they chosen? Who suggested them? Who's pushing them? Who's pushing them? Newspapers will be again tomorrow. Someone's been contradicting the members. What they're going to write about, and it's not people's fault. It's our fault that we're working this way. And that's why I don't think the governor's council deserves this kind of debate and doesn't deserve this kind of vote. And it won't be good for a part of us to go against it and we'll be against it because we can't accept it being played like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71852	Corrections to incorrect allegations. Honorable Vice-President Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71853	It was found here that no one knew who submitted this proposal. Those who were at the consultation in my office heard from me the information that I received that in cooperation and agreement with Governor Rohatinski this proposal was delivered. Now, if Governor Rohatinski has received our support unanimously in the Parliament and has received our support on the proposal of the deputy and vice governor, so if it is true, it can only be Mr Rohatinski here to deny me now, if he has consulted and participated in the adoption of this proposal, then the question is whether trust concerns the governor and his deputies, or vice governors. And we won't, but with the reserve we'll take his, let's say, maybe he's not alone, but someone he consulted in this proposal. And don't claim anything that isn't true, that there were no attempts at a deal. I apologized to everyone that it was quick...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71854	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71855	I said that within half an hour I called the club representatives and I told those club representatives what I heard, that he participated in the proposal of this, the outside members of the council...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71856	Thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71857	... Governor Rohatinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71858	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71859	If he's denying it then I'm pulling what I'm...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71860	Okay. Second Amendment, the Honorable Representative of the Shima Rifle.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71861	Well, here's the thing. I'm correcting my colleague Linic when he says the board president is shocked. I'm still on my feet and thank him for taking care of my health. But if we had conducted the procedure you saw when we were informed, we held the board. The Committee has given its opinions to only give its opinion to the majority of the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71862	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71863	Your Honor, Mr. President, I am correcting the incorrect allegations of a distinguished colleague, Linic. I wasn't talking about procedure. I was talking about you now for the appointment of the advice of the Croatian National Bank using the arguments I spoke on behalf of the Croatian Party Club of Rights when we had a governor and joke governors. So, then they were your arguments. You were supposed to make procedural mistakes today that were made, not to make arguments that we were then saying. That's what I mean, I'm always in the process, but you can't use arguments about this when our arguments were there, when it was far more important to the governor and to the vice governor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71864	Replica, respected representative Pero Kovacevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71865	That's right, Mr. President. So I'm asking to be listened to in that part of what I was saying because it's trying to me, trying to tell me that I was talking about the procedure. I didn't speak at all in the process. I was just talking about the arguments used by the SDP club regarding the appointment of external members of the Croatian National Bank council. These arguments could have been present, and above all they needed what the Croatian party's rights club used when we discussed the report on the Croatian National Bank when we discussed the appointment of governors or another game here at all. Here is not a game, then say the procedure was not carried out properly and this objection I can accept as legal, but I cannot accept the ex post mind that you are now doing our arguments. That's an ex post mind, my dear gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71866	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Biserka Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71867	Mr. President, Article 209 was injured, given that Kovačević raised the correction of the incorrect allegations when Mr. Bebic spoke, not when he spoke to his colleague Linic, so you injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71868	It's not true and it's not true, Agent Perman. I am correcting the incorrect quote and recorded on the replica the reaction of Agent Kovacevic, which is why your claim is not correct. Replica response, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71869	A colleague of Kovacevic, Slavko Linic has never taken away your right to conduct a debate as you devise it, as you wish, with the arguments you have. It's unfortunate, Mr. Kovacevic, that you're taking away my right to take away your SDP club. It's simply nowhere for you to be expected by any I'd tell the right parliamentary representative. Well, you can't take away our rights. So, you have your truth, you have your own opinion, you have your own staff rating, you have your own arguments. The SDP has its own policy, the SDP is a party that also has its own programmes. Therefore, our assessment of the governor's behaviour and people is what we estimate, but at the same time you cannot take away the right of the SDP to comment, that 27 billion euros in debt is enormous, that it is a great concern for both the governor and the governor's responsibility, but also that it is the responsibility of the council, that it is the responsibility of the government, that it is the responsibility of every member of this Parliament. Therefore, it is an argument that we use and neither will you erase it, nor will you give us lessons that argument which unfortunately... and not the adult citizens of the Republic of Croatia and are afraid and talking about it, the least problem is that we talk about it, but it is a big problem when an HSP agent takes away the right to talk about it and to use those figures. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]] These are public figures published in all reports and the National Bank and statistics.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71870	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. By law, pursuant to Article 40 of the Law, the external members of the Croatian National Bank Council shall appoint the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Committee on Finance, Selection, designation and administrative affairs with the opinion of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Neither the law nor the Rules of Procedure have been settled on the basis of the Committee on Elections and Designation and Administrative Affairs. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 67 votes in favour, 5 abstentions and 20 against the proposed decision. We are going to the final next further decision of the Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of part of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency. The debate is closed. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on HINA of the Croatian Parliament shall vote individually on each proposed member of the Governing Council of HINA. The SDP advocates' club proposed that, based on Article 229(3), the appointment of 3 members be sought for Boža Skoku, Dijan Katic and Drazen Jovic, proposed as member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Reporting News Agency, be held individually, by name. Namely, then, the vote is whether or not the assistant secretary will call the deputies. Excuse me, just a minute. Honorable representative Antun Vujic on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71871	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, please give us a break of 10 minutes to consult. We're surprised... After some attitudes that have been heard positively, for example, by Mr. Ljubicic, who said the other day that the chimneys would not be in the administrative councils of hospitals, so we thought that professional criteria would prevail, that perhaps the Government would withdraw this proposal, however, as I did not ask for a break of 10 minutes to sort of consult within the club and everyone with their own conscience that they would vote on this issue. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71872	Thank you. Please pause for 10 minutes and the Club of Representatives of the HNS also pauses for 10 minutes. After the break, the Club of Representatives of the SDP respected representative Tonci Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71874	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This morning, several facts have been identified, which is that from the proposed four candidates, the three candidates do not meet the legal requirements for them to be proposed in the administrative council of HINA. These are Mr. Bozo Skoko, who is in direct conflict of interest, that is Mrs. Diana Katica who, as a veterinarian, cannot represent an expert in economic and financial affairs and is Mr. Drazen Jovic, who, as a result, cannot be represented as an expert in the field of legal science and general legal affairs as an expert. Since no one from the government answered anything like this. Since also respected HDZ colleagues who were on the board when it was discussed, they did not disprove any of these allegations in any way because, while voting for such a proposal, I believe there was a violation of the law in this proposal, a violation of democratic standards, a violation of the professional criteria in the selection of such an important body. I think we're on the verge of introducing party control over media space. I think the only way to expect HINA to be bilitenated after the Vesnik is now. We will not be able to pretend that these are all the moves that are very far away from Europe and from one another and from one another on our shared obligations. The lack of that understanding, I think, has become alarmingly large. This also appeared earlier in the discussion of the external members of the Croatian National Bank Council, where rules are also not respected to tolerate and respect each other, and in that sense, the SDP Club decided not to take part in a vote for this to say the farsical form of law or the election of members of the HINA Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71875	Thank you very much. For the HNS Club, respected representative Antun Kavrljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71876	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm not going to give any longer reasons. I just want to say that because of the procedure and everything that we've said here today at the HNS Club Assembly will vote against and I would like to ask that the quorum be established before the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71877	HDZ representative club respected Vice-President Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71878	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. President! I had no illusion that SDP representatives would return after they asked for a break. I knew he wouldn't come back and it was a maneuver that was meant to be next. If the council remained the same and the director had been given the term of office, he would have extended his term of office, opened the competition, and selected a new director. That's the purpose of this whole story and the reason for the obstruction in the vote. This is even more saddened that the club proposed an individual vote, so it purposely did everything to avoid a quorum in order to achieve a purpose and this is the re-nomination of the director from the old council to which the mandate expires. The public needs to know this and the stories about Europe, the stories about the procedure, etc. Just blurring this political fact that I just told you about. This is the purpose, and I think that the Croatian public should know this and that such a development of events can be assumed, I am not sure that it will happen, but at least let it be known what it is when some get an attack of democracy and an attack on how important the procedure is, etc. And when they were in power, there was no procedure at 1%.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71879	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Antun Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71880	Mr. President, I'm very surprised to say so with the extra tiara of Mr. Bebić. I have to correct an incorrect quote, but to put it that way, a lot of things and incorrect thoughts. No one said anything about the new director of HINA. That's what you first mentioned. That's what you said first, Mr. Baby. [[The speaker doesn't understand because of the noise.]] Will you let me finish? And it's amazing, however, that you're worried about this next to the same advice that you've given the most positive possible grades to, excuse me, next to the same board of directors that you've given the most positive reviews you've given exactly by accepting his reports and by last vote, which is what I think, by collectively speaking, the sumum laude's sum was rated report and HINA as such. So you're still not worried that you might be able to repeat such a HINA, but you want a different HINA, you want your HINA, you want your newsletter. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71881	Order!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71882	... Ports in those places. [[You can't hear the speaker, you can't hear it.]] [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71883	Order! Order! [[The intruders don't understand.]] Thank you. Gentlemen, the Government is proposing a proposal and has put forward a proposal in accordance with the HINA Act as the Government proposes to elect members, selecting a part of the Board of members of the Governing Council of Croatia's HINA Reporting Agency. The government did it. It's government law. And she gave it to me. And we met at the vote on the government's proposal to appoint part of the board of directors of HINA. By law, the Croatian Parliament shall vote individually on each proposed member of the Governing Council of HINA. The argument that some proposed candidates, proposed by the government do not like them, is that someone does not like to vote on them or not to vote on them, not to go to obstruction, to go to obstruction and to, obviously, one deliberate conscious obstruction to lose the quorum and not to vote. We're scheduled to vote. We have an individual vote scheduled. The SDP representative club has proposed for 3 candidates a name vote. He's gone now. I'm interrupting this session for now. We'll continue in an hour, and I'm asking the MPs to be in the hall, and those who went back to put together the required number of votes to vote. Resume session in an hour. [[Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's engage to determine the quorum. Let's get on with it! We have a quorum. The result? 77. In line with the article. Order! Peace, please! We're going to a name-named vote on candidate Bozo Skoko as a member of the Governing Council. Here you go, secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71885	Who? Well, he didn't ask for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71886	Please, peace! Well. Here's a break, please. Mr. Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71887	Mr. President, I was going to say on behalf of the Croatian party of law club. If not, then I'm asking for a 10-minute break to say what I can do. Now can I or can I ask for a break for 10 minutes? ... Well, that's all I wanted to say. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Look, the Croatian party is the right party of opposition and constructive opposition. This time we draw attention to the next fact, the appointment of the Governing Council of the Croatian Reporting Agency is an important matter. We know what the Croatian news agency means. We think that it would be far more appropriate to repeat the invitation to tender, it would be far more appropriate to repeat the invitation to tender and select people who will have professional and other qualifications to work in the Administrative Council. We know all the roles and tasks of HINA. We have so far said that HINA is the front of Croatia as a news agency along with Croatian Radio in Professionality and Objectivity. But unfortunately, we have a candidate here, let's say the person who graduated from law school in 2003, can't be a legal expert, you understand. He can't be a dignitary to this part. So it would be far smarter at the point of view of the Croatian Party's club right to extend to the present. The mandate of two, three months to repeat the invitation to tender and reach a consensus, to reach a consensus. Let us make it possible, so we can achieve one concept, not break these things over our knees. I don't think it's time for the appointment of such a nature as the Governing Council of the Croatian Reporting Agency to break over its knees. And the proposal is ours to consider this situation to extend V.D. to the present in two, three months. A mandate to carry out this whole procedure properly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71888	Thank you. We're going to the vote. Here you go, secretary. Peace, please! Here's your nickname. For God's Jump, it's a vote. Oh, my God. [[/Intruder: Who is it voted for?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71889	Jeane Adam - za, Đurđa Adlešić -, Irena Juhel - za, Zdenko Antešić -, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović -, Željka Antunović - za, Franjo Arapović - za, Mato Arlović -, Zdenka Babić-Petičević - za, Jure Bitunac - za, Ante Bagarić - za, Marija Brajdić - za, Mirica Brdarić - za, Mirjana Brdać - za, Mirjana Brnatić - za, Kraža - za, Marijana Brac - za, Mirjak, Željan Željač, Željača - Žač, Žeko Žač, Žačan Žažažažar - Zrak - Zrak - Za, Žačan Buk - Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Mir Bukić - Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Žir Buk Buk Buk - Za, Karm Buk - Za, Karm Buk - Za, Karm Kre - Zre - Za, Karm Kr and Kr and Krjemić - Zaktak - Zaktak - Zaktak - Zaktak - Zaktak - Zaktak - Zaktak - Zaktak - Zaktak - Zaktak - Zaktak - Zaktak - Zaktak - Zaktak - Zaktak - Zaktak - Zaktak - Zaktak - Zaktak - Zaktak - Zaktak - Zaktak - Zaktak - Zaktak, Zaktak - Zaktak - Zaktak, Zaktak, Zaktak - Zaktak - Zaktak - Zaktak - Zaktak, Zaktak, Zak, Zaktak, Zak - Zak - Zak - Zak, Zaktak, Zaktak, Zaktak, Zakt, Zaktak, Zakt, Zakt, Zak Žurđa Adlešić, Zdenko Antešić, Ingrid Antičević Marinović, Željka Antunović, Mato Arlović, Ljubica Brdarić, Mato Crkvenac, Miroslav Čahok, Ivan Čehok, Miljenko Doric, Valter Drandić, Ivan Drvić, Anto Djavić, Sredko Ferenčak, Mirko Filipović, Mato Gavran, Branimir Glavas, Vilim Herman, Nikola Ivanšak Ivaniš, Ivo Josip Žainović, Ljubako Lalić, Damir Kajin, Antun Kapraljević, Ivan Kolar, Zlatko Koračević, Miroslav Korenik, Alenka Košiča Žačaču Žačanić, Žačanić, Željko Željko Žač, Željko Željko Žačić, Željkokić Žaljkokić, Žaljko Žaljko Žalić, Žaljko Žalić, Žalić, Žažko Lalić, Žaljko Lalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žaljkotić, Žažkožkožkotić, Žažkotić, Žažka Lalić, Drag, Drag, Drag Žažk, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag Loš, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Ljubljana, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Ljubljana, Ljubljana, Ljubljana, Ljubljana, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Ljubljana, Slav, Slav, L, Ljubljana, Slav
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71890	Now let's see. ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71891	On behalf of the HSP Club, I demand a hand vote for the others...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71892	It cannot, because the law prescribes a single vote, and when MPs make a proposal to vote by name, then it must be voted by name. This is the result. For appointment as member of the HINA Governing Council for Boza Skuku 67, v. 10, abstentions 2. So Bozo Skoko was elected 67 votes as a member of the HINA Governance Council. Now for, voting for the appointment of Diana Katica as a member of the Council. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71893	Jeane Adam - za, Đurđa Adlešić -, Irena Ahel -, Zdenko Antešić -, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović -, Željka Antunović - za, Franjo Arapović - za, Mato Arlović -, Zdenka Babić-Petričevac - za, Jure Bitunac - za, Ante Bagarić - za, Marija Brajt - za, Mirjana Brdarić - za, Mirjana Brdać - za, Kraja Bjać - za, Marija Bekić - za, Karmela Kapunjac - za, Mato Crkvenaković - for, Mirica Brdarić -, Mirjana Brdač, Žačažažan Žar, Žačan Žača, Žažan Žažažažaža - Žažak - Za, Žažak - Za, Žažažažažažak - Žaž, Žažažak - Žažak - Žaž, Žažak - Žažaž, Za, Za, Za, Za, Žaž, Žažažažažažažbljak and Žažak and Žažak - Žažak Mrjaktak Mr. Žurđa Adlešić -,Zdenko Antešić -, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović -, Željko Antunović -, Mato Arlović -, Ljubica Brdarić -, Miroslav Čačija -, Ivan Čehok -, Miljenko Dorić -, Valter Drmić -, Ivan Drmić -, Anto Žapić -, Sreko Ferenčac -, Mirko Filipović -, Mato Gavran -, Branimir Glavas -, Vilim Herman -, Nikola Ivanović -, Ivo Josipović -, Ljubo Jurić -, Marin Jurjević -, Damir Žačaža -, Žažaža -, Antun Kapraljević -, Ivan Kolar -, Zlatko Koračević -, Miroslav Koroš -, Mirko Korić -, Mirko Žažić -, Mirić -, Mirko Žič, Žič, Žić, Žič, Žič, Žić, Žič, Žić - Žić, Žač, Žač, Žiko - Žiko - Žiko - Žiko - Žiko - Žiko, Žiko - Žič, Žič, Žič, Žič, Žič, Ži, Ži, Ži, Ži, Ž.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71894	Let's see what the jury says. A member of the HINA Governing Council, Dijan Katic, voted 69 against 6 abstentions 4. So, with 69 votes for Diana Katica, she was appointed a member of the Governing Council of HINA. Let's move on to Drazen Jovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71895	Jeane Adam za -, Đurđa Adlešić -, Irena Ahel - za, Zdenko Antešić -, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović -, Željka Antunović - za, Franjo Arapović - za, Mato Arlović -, Zdenka Babić-Petičević - za, Štepan Bačić - za, Anto Bagarić - za, Ivan Bagarić - za, Marija Brac - za, Mirjana Bebić - za, Marijan Bekavac - za, Jure Bitunjac - za, Mato Crkranac -, Dražan Bošnković -, Ljubica Brdarić - Za, Mirjana Brčak, Mirjan Brna Brnadić - za, Mirjan - Za, Mira - Za, Mira Buć - Za, Perica Buk - Za, Perica Buk - Za, Perica Bukić - Za, Perica Buk - Za, Za, Perica Buk - Za, Kar, Kar, Kar, Kar, Kar, Kar, Kar, Kar, Karm Pomjelo Pom Pom Pom Pom Pom Pom Pom Pom Pom Pom Pom Pom Pom Pom Pom Pom Pom Pom Pom Pom Pom Pom Pom Pom Pom Pom Pom Pom Pom Pomić - Zakrštak - Zaktak - Zm - Zm Krat - Zaktak - Zakrštak - Žrštak - Zaktak - Zakrštak - Zakrštak - Zaktak - Zaktak - Žtak - Žrštak - Zaktak - Žrštak - Žrštak - Zaktak - Žrštak - Zak - Zaktak - Žktak - Zaktak - Žk - Žktak - Žktak - Zaktak - Žtak - Zaktak - Zak - Žtak - Žk - Žurđa Adlešić -, Zdenko Antešić -, Ingrid Antičević Marinović -, Željko Antunović -, Mato Arlović -, Ljubica Brdarić -, Mato Cerkvenac -, Miroslav Čačina -, Ivan Čehok -, Branjko Dorić -, Valter Drmić -, Anto Žapić -, Sreko Ferenčak -, Mirko Filipović -, Mirko Gavran -, Branimir Glavas -, Vilim Herman -, Nikola Ivanović -, Ivo Josipović -, Ljubo Jurić -, Žačina Žaža Ža -, Žažaža Žažaža -, Damir Kaj -, Antun Kapraljeljić -, Ivan Kolar -, Zlatko Klar -, Zlatko Korac -, Zlatko Koračić -, Mirožić -, Mirožić -, Mirožić -, Mirko -, Mirko -, Mirko, Mirko, Mirko - Zak, Mirkožović, Mirko, Mir, Mir, Ža, Ža -, Mirko, Žiž, Žižiž, Žiž, Ža -, Žiša, Zak, Zak, Zak, Ž, Ž Đk Đk Đk Ćk, Zdić, Zdić, Zdić, Žrić Đk, Krić Đk, Zdrić, Krić, Krić, Krić, Krić, Krić, Krić, Krić, Krić, Krić, Zdić, Krić, Krić, Krić, Krić, Ž, Krić, Krić, Krić, Krić, Krić, Krić,
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-07-0.u71896	Now the jury will do it again. The result is next. He voted for 66 and against 13 in favour of HINA Governing Council member Drazen Jovic, with 66 votes in favour of the appointment of Drazen Jovic as a member of the HINA Governing Council. These three candidates were requested and were held at the request of the SDP Club by name. The fourth candidate has not been asked to vote by name and is individually voted on. Please, let's get on with it. Yes, this is about the appointment of Ivan Rusan as a member of the Governing Council of HINA. We can vote. The result? 67 for, 5 abstentions and 8 against. So, with 67 votes, a decision on the appointment of Ivan Rusan as a member of the HINA Governing Council was made. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in this section we have done our duty. Thank you for your cooperation. I am concluding the 21st session of the Croatian Parliament. The extension in the middle or in the second half of September this year. To all a pleasant vacation from this hard work and to return refreshed and loaded, full of batteries for further wins.
