ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70465	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. We continue to work at the 21st session of the Croatian Parliament and I warmly welcome you all. In order to facilitate your settlement, you are divided into a bench discussion, a consolidated agenda for today's session and the next day. We move to - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 454, - Final proposal of the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 456, - Final proposal of the Voluntary Health Insurance Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 452, - Final proposal of the Health Insurance Act at Work, second reading, P.Z. No. 453. It's all another reading. It is proposed to combine the debate with the introduction of club representatives for 20 minutes and 10 minutes each in an individual debate. If we agree, for faster and more efficient work, thank you very much. So we move on to these four points of the agenda. Proposal for a law is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received a proposal for action in boxes. In the adoption of these laws, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law apply, and the debate was carried out by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health. Does he want a representative of the proposer, health minister and social care? Mr. Neven Ljubicic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70466	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. So here, after the previous debate, after the debate about the first reading, here we have actually come to the final proposals that are ahead of you. I want to do it before I actually show you what the changes are, because there are some changes, of course, compared to the first reading, once again to show my satisfaction with the work of the workshop. The workshop was attended by representatives of all union centres, attended by representatives of all health chambers in Croatia, attended by employers' representatives and of course representatives of patient associations. Once again it was a confirmation, but also a clear indication of the commitment of this government to social dialogue, but not only social dialogue but also dialogue with those who use health care and those who provide health care. What I would also like to say today is that to the greatest extent, I am personally very proud of it, we have reached an agreement. So, consent to the greatest extent possible. When we talk about consensus, and that's exactly what this is about, of course, it's very difficult to establish one consensus and the two sides when they're actually talking hard to actually agree on just about everything. And here, therefore, five different sides have managed to make one agreement to the greatest extent possible which, of course, I want to point out and that is why I am extremely pleased. And exactly according to that one consent, and I think if they've reached the consent of the union's central union with, please, a single opinion of a union centre. So, 5 union centres, employers, all chambers of health care and associations that have been participated in the workshop, I think there is no reason why the Croatian Parliament should not actually de facto adhere to the citizens, to those for whom health care is and that we also have agreement here to the greatest extent possible. Of course, behind this workshop followed and the conclusion of the Economic and Social Council and let me read it. The Economic and Social Council supports the draft Act amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act, the draft Law on Health Insurance of Health Insurance at Work, the Draft Proposal for a Law on Obligation of Health Insurance and the Draft Proposal for a Law on Voluntary Health Insurance in the text in which they are agreed through the joint work of social partners and other participants in the framework of workshops, and proposes that the Government of the Republic of Croatia submit them to a second reading in the Croatian Parliament. The Economic and Social Council considers that compliance with the content of those laws has been implemented in accordance with a common agreement on the procedure. The opinion of the Association of Independent Trade Unions of Croatia, which believes that the procedure in preparation for the discussion of the strategy was not respected, followed by a package of health laws. So, the Alliance of Independent Unions gave a separate opinion because, therefore, it is the opinion that the procedure was not respected. Let me just briefly put out what might actually be a newspaper, but also some of the things I've said and in my previous address, which I think are extremely important. What are the basic provisions of the law or the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act? One of the things that we actually absolutely wanted to strengthen in this way is that we actually spend it from the lowest units, from departments, clinics, department heads, clinic heads, all the way to the director and the functioning of HZZO is actually a responsibility. Financial and professional responsibility. And just when we talk about financial responsibility, and today it's very current, current because right now we're not running away from it, that's why we're going to all these changes where they actually have arrived, not the reconciled obligations of all our hospitals in the healthcare system in Croatia over a billion and a half. We want to strengthen this responsibility and therefore strengthen it from the responsibility of the founder for the obligations of health institutions, although it is already mentioned in the Law on Institutions here we further strengthen it, highlight, strengthen and also strengthen the responsibility of the Director and Head of each Financial Business Unit. Surely one of the key issues is whether the leader of a unit must be the most professional person or actually it must be a good organizer, a quality organizer who will be able to function within the means available. I think that, in line with the experiences in the world, this is another extremely and much more important than actually being the leader of some unit, maybe the best surgeon or best intern or best gynecologist. One of the things that we're extremely proud of, and I think we have a lot of agreement here is actually the establishment or better said return of health homes to islands. Here is an opportunity for me to announce a newspaper designed better said national health strategy on the islands, it was accepted in the Croatian Parliament in 1997. Of course, some things have changed technologically in the meantime. So we want to show clearly with the new strategy how much this government cares about actually health and health care development on the islands. This is one of the most important things because health care on the islands has its specifics that we must respect. In accordance with the National Strategy for Health Development in the five-year period of 2006-2011, we also provide for the organisation of mandatory preventive checks in primary health care. I've talked a lot here about prevention. Prevention is something that the health system must be based on. Unfortunately, the number of preventive examinations in Croatia, and this is what the doctors have shown at the General Family Medicine Congress, is that the prevention has unfortunately dropped 70% in the last 5 years. It's a data that's absolutely alarming and therefore gives now legally binding here that preventive checks must be carried out. They're going to be spent every person over the age of 50 every other year and I think it's the best way to de facto certain diseases, if we can't stop them already, and what we're actually discovering as early as possible. One of the steps we have made is certainly the structure of the governing council and the role of the expert council in the homes of health. I talked about it the last time, and I was actually talking about the inappropriateness of certain chimneys or different, so the others not wanting to offend those interests, but you will allow that someone who is a smoker can not, by the profession, still be president of the board of directors of one home of health or of one hospital, and that is why I repeat, in full agreement of the trade unions of employers, chambers and associations of patients, we have of course changed in such a way that the President of the Governing Council must have a high professional standing while in fact the one who comes from the workers themselves, the employees of the home of health, or the hospital does not have a high professional arrangement. I would also like to say that we are putting tenants in the administrative council of our health homes for the first time. I think it's a good step because if 90% of the health care homes are tenants then it's a logical sequence that these tenants are actually within the board itself, and we empower the expert council with our role in terms of having to give consent to the availability of decentralised resources. It is the first time that we will actually give the expertise to decide both on equipment and on investment, so the whole program in health homes, and we will not have a case so that certain equipment is not being refurbished succesively. After the meeting of the Committee on Labour, Health and Social Policy, a very high-quality proposal has been tabled, which is the adoption of a regulation on the categorisation of medical technical equipment in institutions. I think it's another step, a good step, because it's inadmissible that we don't actually have any kind of act that we're going to regulate which hospital can get a certain quantum equipment, and not that certain hospitals that don't have an adequate flow of patients, who don't even have professional staff who might be working on some equipment actually get a certain quantum equipment that, of course, stands unused and generates not only losses but in fact, in some other place installed such equipment would be of much greater use. One of the newspapers, and I've already said that, and I want to point out once again, are also the name of a cooperative clinic facility. What's this about? Some of our general hospitals with their quality, with the quality of the people working there, rose significantly above the level of general hospitals. Many employees in these general hospitals today are teachers, professors, professors at universities. It is our desire to recognize such departments, to separate them, to declare them practically cooperative clinics, and thus to push them even more into this professional, scientific sense. In this bill proposal and the final proposal, we strengthen the role of the Committee for Medicinal Products in health institutions with the exact specifications of what to do, and this is particularly reflected in the segment of clinical studies of medicines, you know that clinical trials as well as everywhere in the world, and so in Croatia took a lot more and more, Croatia actively participates in this scientific thought around the world, and, of course, proper supervision, that is, control. We also strengthen the role of the Committee for Internal Control with a desire to carry out a number of postmortems, so a number of pathological confirmations of certain diagnosiss, which, of course, I think we will do and a great not only professional step but also remove certain things that happen after we actually have no final diagnosis, and for example... the patient himself and then remains, of course, a large questionnaire over the profession of whether something was done well, not done well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The best way is, of course, an autopsy that solves definitely the largest number of open questions. The continuous quality control of work is something that I actually said last time and I want to put here and still point at one actually provision that seems extremely important to me, which is related to opening up the possibility of specialising to nurses, medical technicians. I want to say that I am personally behind this provision because I believe that anyone who is in the process of work must actually have the possibility of progress. If there's no progress, things often turn into routines, there's no primal motive, so we can say one big enthusiasm. To develop this, to return it to our nurses, we are now giving the medical technicians here a legal basis for opening their specializations and I think, and therefore according to the echoes I receive from the Croatian Chamber of Nurses, from the Croatian Association of Nurses and also from the professional union of nurses, medical technicians that this provision is precisely on the trail and their wishes and, of course, the desire of the system to have better quality and better professionals. When we talk about the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, of course, I won't repeat what we're saying. This is the insistence that we simply separate the Croatian Assembly for compulsory health insurance from the executive authority, which would actually be managed by such an institution of the congregations. Much more important, however, is a specific point today that I want to say about, of course, a new list of medicines, or a new policy of medicines that we coordinate with and with a large number of countries. Here and last time I actually quoted an article published in our journal Farms where I made it clear that this is the kind of list that we want so the Germans, the Netherlands, Norway, Romania, Poland. So it's a list that will be conceived in such a way that all the drugs will be on that list. But if we have the same medicine for a drug that's cheaper, then of course we will accept this medicine to be referenced and to be fully supported by the Croatian Institute of Obligation Health Insurance. Some diseases will not be affected by these changes, primarily with regard to mental illness, epilepsy, diabetes, malignancies, so different infectious diseases, and individual medicines for children. This is, of course, in accordance with conventions that we are also signatories and that we fully respect and that actually come from the World Health Organization and that we want to fully respect. What I would like to say and what may be the most significant and that is the fundamental question that this list of medicines actually brings. For the system, it brings orderly supply of the market, brings that payment deadlines that are now over two hundred days, which are constantly threatening to collapse market supply of medicines, and this reduction will actually allow the system to be sustainable and to function. What does this new drug policy bring for patients? It brings more rights. How does it bring more rights? So it brings more rights because for the first time without waiting two, three, five years, we'll be able to put every drug-innovated drug that has proven advantage over existing medicines on the list. Yesterday I spoke to an association of cardiovascular patients from Osijek and they actually supported this list as well. Why? So because they waited four years for one medicine, for one Clopidogrel medicine to be given in patients who were then blocked by blood vessels or after it was actually built into a stand. For four years, it was expected to be included on the list and that all the countries in the environment registered the medicine. And our particular goal with this kind of drug policy is that we don't have to wait any longer than to get every such drug right on the list because it has a proven advantage over the existing one. What are the benefits for doctors? Easier meeting the contractual obligations. We're not going to get into that ridiculous doctor punishment anymore because they actually prescribed too many medications. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We will reward them when they are being treated and when they heal their patient and I think for the first time with this kind of drug policy and we release the demagogue on the side because no one lives on it, we let it go again, we will have a clear and transparent concept of the list of medicines and, of course, a quality and good system. Just a few words about extra insurance. Additional insurance remains within mandatory but does not apply to medicinal products. Why? Because the drugs are completely free, so there's no extra charge for the drugs. And additional insurance remains for 50 and 80 kuna by covering hospital treatment, covering specialist-consular health care and orthopaedic aids. And allow me a few words on the last proposal, so the law that is before you, the final draft of the law, which is the Health Insurance Act for Health Protection at Work. I also have to be honest here, and that is that this law is broadly in line with the legislation of the European Union. I think it's a good one and a good one. Why? For the first time in fact, the system of protection, hence health protection of health care at work, has distanced us from compulsory health insurance. And if this works practically in all European Union countries, there is no reason not to be in Croatia. And in this context, we are setting up a separate institution that will be separated from the existing Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, which will therefore be called the Croatian Institute for Health Safety at Work. It may be a little longer but I just haven't been able to find a shortcut there. This office will function on the principle of mutuality and solidarity and that's what we all think was our goal. And that's where we got a lot of consent to that law, and I think we're going right now with an extremely high-quality proposal. The establishment of incompetence for work will be by the specialist of medical work as a de facto first-degree solution, then the medical commission of the Croatian Institute of Medicine while the main final solution will be brought by the future institution, means the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance at Work. Such action is practically complementary to most of the solutions we also have in the European Union. What I'd like to say is there won't be any additional employment here. Namely, the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance at Work will simply be singled out from the existing Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, so without additional employment, it will only assume power. Only then will the financial impact have separate instructions, separate recipes. Why? Because that system has to be completely separated. Likewise, to promote adequate protection at work, we also introduce the principle of bonuses and maladies to encourage care for each worker. What does that mean? This means that anyone who has adequate protection at work, who cares about their workers, will practically have a certain bonus. So less or less will stand out, or rather, they will no longer be singled out into the common fund. If he doesn't care about the workers themselves, if he doesn't have adequate implementation means a large number of those who have professional illnesses or injuries at work then they actually get into this part of the small part, and that means they actually have a criminal to say the point. It will therefore set out more in this joint fund. And that is where we have actually fully aligned ourselves with the adequate solutions that we have in the countries of the European Union. Let me finally once again point out your satisfaction for a workshop that has managed to find and agree to the maximum possible extent of the settings in these four laws that are before you, and I expect that we will all, because if the employers, if the trade unions are with, therefore, excluded from the opinion of a union centre, and 5 union centres have accepted this, if the patient associations supported it even though they supported all professional chambers in Croatia, I do not see a reason why the Croatian Parliament will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70467	Thank you very much. Does the Committee’s rapporteur want to take the floor? Yeah? And I'm sorry, we have one correction to the incorrect assumption. Mrs. Alenka Koshasha Chichin-Shain. Excuse me. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70468	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, I would only correct your inaccuracies regarding the high degree of consensus around these laws. I would like to remind you that the Alliance of Independent Trade Unions of Croatia has not reached a consensus with you. That there are 340,000 signatures of our citizens behind this alliance without the consensus being achieved because they oppose two lists of medicines. So they're up for a list of drugs. For the best medicines, not for the cheapest medicines and for asking them to be the same, to remain the same range of supplementary health insurance rights as against the introduction of income censorship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70469	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Committee President, Dr. Marko Turic... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70470	... Dear Mr. Vice President... Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health at the 57th session of the Committee held on 10 July 2006 discussed the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act, the Final Proposal for a Law on Mandatory Health Insurance, the Final Proposal for a Law on Voluntary Health Insurance and the Final Proposal for a Law on Health Security of Health at Work. The Committee discussed the Law as a home working body in accordance with its powers stemming from the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Following the opening explanation of the applicant's representative, a united debate was held. In a brief discussion, the members of the Committee supported the final draft law. In the discussion, the Committee members specifically referred to the amended Article 51. The final draft law and agreed that it is necessary to introduce specialisation in all segments of the health care system for the development of medicine and the application of a number of specific procedures in the care of patients. It is also necessary to enable healthcare professionals to have access to specialisation for individual specific areas of work. The Committee member warned that neither this Law nor the other three in the proposed health law package pay sufficient attention to the situation of persons with disabilities especially when they appear as patients. This specifically refers to health care in a house for people with disabilities living outside major cities. Lack of specific medical education and others. As far as the Mandatory Health Insurance Act is concerned, in a brief discussion, the Committee members agreed that the Final Bill proposes improvements to the text in the first reading. By establishing a basic list of medicines for the Institute so that it contains the medically most economical medicines for the treatment of all patients. The use of medicinal products that have been shown to be medically most acceptable is ensured. In addition to their unquestionably effective performance, they also have the most acceptable level of price. By establishing an income census in such a way that all the receipts referred to in Articles 25 and 26. The final draft law will reduce the circle of persons who have, in some way, unduly given their overall incomes, benefited from these rights. In this way, part-saving and cost-reduction of the health system will also be implemented. Then the Health Insurance Act at Work. The members of the Committee in the debate pointed out that this Law fully regulates the health insurance of health care at work, which includes specific health care which is now carried out on the basis of the contract between the employer and the health institution or company, which has, in its composition, the activities of the medical work or with a specialist in private practice medicine, as well as the rights for recognised injury to the work or occupational disease which is now being carried out by the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. As pointed out in the previous discussions, this system also foresees specific protection of workers, which contributes to strengthening prevention in the health protection system at work. In the opinion of most Committee members, this Bill, which is in line with European standards, is more responsible for the responsibility and health at the workplace, thus making sure that the risk of health damage at a given workplace and the quality of the health of workers is certainly greater. After the debate, the members of the Committee voted with two votes, with one vote against, and one abstention, proposed to the Croatian Assembly the Law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act. Then to compulsory health insurance, the final proposal. Then the Final Proposal for a Law on Voluntary Health Insurance. And the Final Proposal for a Health Insurance Act at Work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70471	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HSP Club, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70472	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. So the first thing I have to say on behalf of the Croatian Party Club is that it remains part of our remarks that we have spoken in both previous reading and which we have presented regarding the first reading. And, to the truth, one part of these remarks has been removed in relation to the final proposal now, but we do not think that they are the most important remarks removed, and that is the first part of our proposal is that, according to our expert team, these laws do not give a final answer to essential questions such as the organisation and organisation of health care in the Republic of Croatia and did not do what we considered important, which is to separate health care from social care. Namely, these situations remained undefined, unexplained. It can be said that this is essentially not a real step towards reform and a complete system of reorganisation of the health system because it is our assessment that the categorization of health institutions was first to be carried out. After that, the reorganization of primary health care on a territorial principle, organise the education of personnel to fill the lack of quality of the system, the means of health care to separate from the Treasury budget, and make their spending more transparent, clearer with the introduction of supervision and full control. To establish and publish anything that represents or will be an obligation to adapt to the European Union's accession system, i.e. to align with the acquis of the European Union. Regarding this package of laws that we have received, which we still consider today, our remarks remain related to the establishment of two lists of medicines. Namely, we would like to look at the very mechanism of creating these lists, and the criteria of classification, the equivalence of medicines related to the coverage of the price difference to be paid for the medicine on the supplemental list of medicinal products, we will argue what we consider to be a controversial exclusion of that coverage from the supplementary insurance of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. So, firstly, when it comes to establishing a basic and supplemental list of medicinal products, such as it is visible, it continues to indicate that a lack of now applicable legislation is not regulated either by law or by a sublaw. No clear criteria or procedures for the decision-making or list as a general act, including the law of judicial control, have been laid down. The list of medicinal products, i.e. the basic and supplementary lists, as regulated by Articles 14, 15, 16 and 21 of the Shroe, determines the equivalence of medicinal products and prices without the determination of the specifics, and the provision in which the procedure is to take place and how this procedure will take place. This opens up at the very least the issue of price determination and determination of equivalence, and if there is no systematic arrangement in line with the new concept, the result can be quite confusing and harmful. All these issues may be regulated in most of the sublegal rules, provided that the law establishes fundamental provisions that would establish legal certainty in respect of the following and other similar relevant circumstances, such as the authority's competence to decide on the individual request of authorised applicants, the criteria for including and excluding from a list or moving from one list to another, which can be objectively established and apply equally to all applicants. In this respect and price setting, respect for a variety of other relevant factors that would enable all citizens to have access to all medicines that are relevant. Furthermore, as regards the very equivalence of medicinal products, since the concept of equivalence of the medicinal product is the criterion on which the law rests, it establishes a division between the baseline and the supplementary list of medicinal products of HZZO should be no doubt about its meaning. We therefore believe that it must be clarified. The proposed grouping of medicinal products with different chemical composition and cost compensation according to the cheapest product in the group restricts the access of patients to medicines. This provision is based on the wrong assumption that all patients are equal and that different medicines are used to treat the same diseases are equivalent. If the concept of pharmaceutical equivalent as defined in the Drug and Medical Products Act suggests that it would be good to indicate that the concept of an equivalent medicinal product is defined by a special law in order to be transparent in law. However, given the importance that both qualifications should have in the future to achieve the right of patients to the medicinal product, we consider that the law and sublaws should again, in order to ensure that they are fully but more detailedly regulated in this area, and in particular the questions to which they are identified, which are pharmaceutically equivalent, according to which criteria, in which procedures, which, with which legal protection bodies, are clearly placed the relationship of that concept to other related concepts, and how these official data on the equivalence of the medicinal product list is obtained by the competent authority for the decision of the list of medicinal products or individual requests for inclusion, or exclusion from that list. Therefore, this part is considered a very important part in order to enable everyone in Croatia to be available equally for all medicines and we do not think that this way will achieve what is intended to be achieved, which is that everyone has the right to equal health care and that those principles of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia are fulfilled. Therefore, the Croatian Party of Rights Club will be restrained about this package of laws because it is not in those relations, in those settings where we have advocated it, which is true that the social system is divided from the health system and that the health system is in the function of Croatian citizens. We know for ourselves what the problems now are about achieving health care, what problems are in hospitals, what problems are in health institutions. So we have this part of the team and quality. But unfortunately, organization and management are not in this function in terms of monitoring and enabling conditions to be created. It seems to us that all of this is within that IMF dictatorship that these funds must be reduced to health care in order to pay off debts neatly on the part of Croatia. Therefore, that is not what we stand for and in that sense, and we cannot support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70473	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Miroslav Cacci. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70474	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to begin with this finding, which was also said by a respected colleague, Kovacevic, that we are mostly staying with all of those remarks and suggestions that we made in the previous debate and first reading. We believe that what is in front of us today in the final version of these laws, the amendments and the addition of the law that only shows that the government still does not have that social sensitivity and we claim that all of this that is before us today is not in the interest of the vast majority of citizens, insurance companies, their material opportunities or needs. We think it's a blow to the citizens' budget that's so thin that they can barely make ends meet at the end of the month. But what's there is. When it does not want to accept the well-intentioned proposals that are certainly made for this speaker in this House during the transitional period until Croatia's entry into the European Union, it would still stop the decline of living standards, thus all the consequences resulting from all of this that is offered to us by health care. It all comes down to the burden of spending being transferred from public to private, insurance and local self-government. I will briefly comment again on all four proposed texts of the law. First, the Health Protection Act. The relevant remark continues to apply to the holder of ownership of health institutions, which means that he remains an objection to Article 17 where the owner of the founding rights must cover the losses of his health institutions. The conditions of business and business losses are high, and the decisions of the government, the RES and the Croatian Health Insurance Institute are the result. And that is why the county as the owner of health care institutions cannot be held accountable for their loss if the measures taken by the county, bodies and bodies of health institutions are due to us. Clinical hospitals deal with losses for the same reasons as general hospitals. Therefore, if the causes and causes of losses in clinical and general hospitals are the same, there is no basis for such losses to be covered in different ways. The conditions of business and results influence you, I will remind you all here of the first price of health care which determines, who, the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance. Secondly, the price of the programme, the budgets it approves, who, the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance. Thirdly, the staff problem in which we also said approval of specializations, employment bans, the ministry of power, salary expenditures, coefficients, value points, contract who, government and unions with collective agreements. What about utility services and energy? We know what status companies have to distribute to them, monopoly status. Medicinal products and medical supplies, unfortunately, must be managed by a health care facility. Beyond these expenditures is directly related to the scope of health services and their quality. For this reason, I repeat, the counties cannot be responsible for the losses of their health institutions because they are mostly objective. And it is unacceptable to suggest that losses can also be covered by decentralised funds. Because these funds, according to their current intentions, were insufficient, so there could be a reduction in the quality of scientific services, due to the failure to renovate equipment or not to maintain it. In view of the extension of the purpose of decentralised means of planning, they should be increased and possibly used for other purposes at that time. The existing system of financing health institutions does not allow for a realistic assessment of the causes of loss. It is impossible to determine which loss is objective and which is subjective, so the provisions of that article should be conditional on the identification of professional quality data and indicators based on which the right to assess the cause of loss can be given. Therefore, losses can have a significant impact on the health care of the population of these counties, putting them in an unequal position in relation to the population of more economically advanced counties or cities or those health institutions owned by the state. As regards the status of home health, we believe that it is important to regulate the number of health homes compared to the total number of county residents, because only optimal coverage of health homes can be a quality substitute for insufficient availability of other health facilities in some situations. Services should be able to be provided in the nearest home of health, not according to the determined division. We also believe that health care can be a pharmaceutical activity at home, since in many areas it does not exist or is limited to working time. Therefore, a different ownership or co-ownership solution could have a more quality impact on the quality of the delivery of health services, because today there are vital interests in all levels of local administration and self-government for the better functioning of the health system, especially primary health care. The continuation of privatisation, however, raises some other issues, and one of them is the question of the role of the director of the home health and its influence on private tenants, and the question arises whether in the almost completely privatised system there can be places to achieve quality health care and whether primary health care can be the main cornerstone of the health system, which is determined by the strategy, but also by this law. Something about the Mandatory Health Insurance Act. Although some remarks on the previous text of the proposed law have been accepted, it remains important, and it refers to what said, a respected colleague of Kovacevic on two drug lists, there are no further criteria by which it will be included, so it creates a concern for the insurance company, because it is not irrelevant which of the generic source medicines will be listed, one better or worse tested effect for one disease. The promoter states that on the basis of the list, medicines for the treatment of all diseases will be included, and we know that all original medicines do not have a replacement in generics. Here is now mentioned also medically-economically most relevant medicines and proven medically most acceptable. That's pretty vague. Furthermore, what about patients currently using the original drug that could be found in the supplemental by creating two lists? Will he have to stop therapy and switch to generic medicine? So our position is two lists, yes, but not with the aim of transferring the price difference to the insurance company, which would mean almost 30% of private spending, because it would be a major social blow to the middle and poorer part of the citizens. The introduction of the supplemental list and the payment of the administrative fee on recipes is unacceptable because it is a double system of restrictions on the use of medicines, which will have far-reaching negative consequences on public health. It will not only result in a reduction in unnecessary consumption but also unnecessary, necessary use of medicines. Furthermore, the payment of the administrative fee for the review in primary health care is not acceptable. Because primary health care is the first contact with a sick insurance company and there must be no restriction on their availability. It must be free of charge and allow for unlimited availability of primary healthcare, and the cost of treatment in primary healthcare must be borne by compulsory health insurance. The administrative fee has the basis only in specialist-consular health care and only in the form and extent to reduce and limit the necessary diagnostics. The programme on financial operations of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance continues to introduce a provision on the distribution of potential revenue over expenditure. 50% is allocated in reserve, and the rest can be borrowed. We reiterate that we do not understand this, because why we are asking the question, and what about the proposal to reduce the rate of contribution, by discharging the economy. In our opinion, a possible surplus can only be used to reduce payment deadlines, improve preventive healthcare, and in repeated cases reduce the contribution rate. We don't think there should be any interference and interest with the strictly dedicated assets of the insurance company. In the formation of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, we repeat what we have said before, that the newspaper is a congregation. This reminds us of that RSIZ that will cost us too much in terms of the intended tasks and powers, and it will be able to make decisions already with most of the 50% present, so practically 25+1. The executive body and the board of directors of nine members are foreseen whose representatives should all be elected, but we repeat, we do not know who is proposing them anymore. I guess the ones we should be representing. A representative of the Bureau was also scheduled, but did you... management but not foreseen from which segment of the employee. [[You don't understand.]] I still have to mention the parts of article 99 that I have said and said before that they are funny, that the director and the deputy director should be resolved if, at the present time, not more than three months of business shows an excess of expenditure in relation to income, regardless of who or how it charges the contribution, the tax administration proposes a financial plan and determines the conditions of business. What if the reasons for the loss of objective and justifiable circumstances have arisen where the recovery is intended to be carried out at the expense of the state budget. The result of such a provision can be a change of management every six months which certainly does not lead... business, will cause negative personnel selection syndrome which does not specifically exist in this activity because there are no trained personnel, and then it can be fatal for the same. [[You don't understand.]] When overseeing the legality of work, there is no state audit but only the Ministry of Health, normally to ask why. In the section governing the relations of institutions and health institutions, it is proposed to arrange for the implementation of healthcare every three years, with a full network of health activities where it is almost constantly unfulfilled. The question arises whether it is not an indirect introduction of some forms of surrogate concession. If we want a concession to achieve consensus and law in its real form as it is everywhere in the world, and not to repeat it again, we're inventing some kind of art that we don't know how it's going to end. We propose a primary health care agreement as before every year, and specialist-consular health care every three to five but only after we carry out categorisation, accreditation of clinical and hospital health institutions. Article 76 provides for re-arbitration, arbitration if no contract is concluded in accordance with the decision of the previous arbitration within the specified time limit. That's what I've been commenting on before, and I'm staying with that attitude. Article 79(3) introduces a novelty limiting consumption in the CNS by not limiting the number of instructions per contracted insurance undertaking but a total agreed amount for single team insurance undertakings. The restriction is therefore by administrative tax by the number of instructions and now by means of money. Normally, we ask why. In the event of a break-up, a health care contract is terminated. No discussion of the justification of arbitration or of the like. As regards voluntary health insurance, payment up to the full cost of health care from compulsory health insurance through HZZ and private insurance. We think that additional health insurance should be allocated from HZZ to a separate institution in majority state ownership. As so far, there should be an insurance policy that covers the complete cost of participation, but also a policy that will cover the extra between the price of the medicinal product on the basic and supplemental list of medicinal products, and not only leave it to private insurance providers. Policy prices should cover the price of risk and the cost of operating without a calculated profit as a private insurance company precisely for the purpose of the social protection of chronic patients and of the medium and poorer part of the population for which this part of the necessary cost will be too much of the cost of living. Such an organised supplementary health insurance in majority state ownership would serve as a social correction in the protection of public health. The moment one such correction is assessed in view of the growth... not necessary, the State may sell to insurance companies, small shareholders or other interested majority package, and only retain for itself the stock control package. [[You don't understand.]] Otherwise, in the history of health insurance in these areas, well-known stockholders' insurance companies, precisely in the majority ownership of small shareholders of insurance companies. As far as the bill on health care, ensuring health protection at work is concerned, this insurance is mandatory and collective and should not be excluded from HZZO, which is exactly the opposite of the proposal right here. This has once proved to be a failure that led to the overflow of basic insurance funds that paid for the treatment, with only 30-40% refunding. We particularly highlight the negative experience in covering the costs incurred by professional diseases in some areas, let us remember Solina where the state had to allocate special financial resources. So it should remain as separate... but within basic health insurance with the conduct of a separate transparent business which unfortunately in three years failed to lay down and establish the previous and current management structure of the office. There's still her suspicion that this gold chick should actually be saved for someone else. All of this, these remarks and proposals for a better solution to those legal proposals are because we continue to consider the proposed amendments and additions of the promoters to be only de facto certain cosmetic incomes, but with negative consequences for the social status of patients, insurance citizens, and ultimately have a significant impact on the quality of public health. Participation of costs yes, but in proportion to the social status of the insurance company. Making profits not for the health of citizens, not for their illness, as this leaves the state less and less social. These amendments and additions to the law should not be passed again, for the third time, by the simple majority. All members of the European Union protect the interests of their citizens, each in its specificities, which we too should do through a far higher degree of solidarity by not abandoning collectively high solidarity insurance and not undermining it to personal interests. As the legislator has so far failed to comply with the proposals and continues to insist on transferring health care costs to patients and not to those declared up to 15% but even more than 30% to open more space to private insurance companies and companies to earn money on a sick insurance company. Therefore, the HSS Club will unfortunately not be able to support this proposal for amending and supplementing the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70475	We have two corrections. First, Mr. Representative Andri Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70476	Thank you very much. I would correct the false allegations of a respected colleague who said that clinical and general hospitals are doing negative business for objective, not subjective reasons. That's not true, of course, because how to explain that at this point, 36% of what the county hospitals do without any loss. Namely, it's your directors, and it's management that affects loss or business without loss. One hospital, for example, has an even 20% higher income than its own activities. The second one has 0% of income except HZZO. One has the same number of beds 30% higher expenditure than the other with the same number of services. So it's mostly a subjective, not an objective reason. And what I would still like to correct, Article 99, which determines that the future director of the future Health Insurance Office may be removed from the assembly if it enters the deficit. That article was declared funny by a colleague. I think he's very serious because such an article is not about the health care business but about the HZZO he's headed for. HZZO must never be lost because it is a rule in all other insurances in the world.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70477	Thank you. Correction, Mrs. Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70478	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The distinguished representative of Cacchi said that by proposing these laws, the government has no social sensitivity which is not true. I think these laws were just about that, so I'm just going to list in article 15 a series of health care types that are completely covered. Since time doesn't allow me to present everything, I'm just going to bring out the ones that I think are most important, such as laboratory, radiological, and other activities at primary healthcare level. All primary health care, then expenses, accommodation and nutrition of chronic psychiatric patients, chemotherapy, radiotherapy. The same accommodation and nutrition, then emergency medical care, emergency dental care, emergency medical transportation, home visits for acute conditions, health care in the house, medicines from the basic list of medicines, patronage health care. And also, let's say that here, here's the administrative fee freed children up to 18 years of life and disabled with damage 80%. And it is predicted that around a million inhabitants will be freed from these visions. Then get the transport costs now...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70479	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70480	...are up to 40 kilometers and will be released those who are in the hill-mounted mountain...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70481	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70482	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70483	It's HNS Club, Mr. Representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go. There are nine clubs and 18 individual clubs. ... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] 9 clubs and 18 individual so today we have... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70484	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The club of representatives of the Croatian People's Party did not support this Bill proposal, this package in the first reading because we believe that it is not really about any significant shifts. In our opinion, there are very bad announcements of big moves, playing some kind of reform without actually changing anything and everything remains the same as before. So there's basically no big change. It's about reform, of course. Reform is necessary. The government's declared views on how a comprehensive and profound reform of health funding is urgent and necessary, however, we do not see these reforms in these legislative proposals. And since there was no change in the concept in the second reading, and it could not be expected in such a short time, of course the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party will, therefore, be against this package of laws in the second reading. The health insurance system, the health care system in the Republic of Croatia is one bureaucratized, unsightly system with a huge number of commissions, with hundreds of regulations and this system according to these laws, if you just look at what regulations should be passed under these laws, you will see that this system remains the same as it was before. The Croatian Health Insurance Institute is a socialist fund. It's not a modern insurance company. It is a house that has no competition in either compulsory health insurance or additional health insurance, and if there is no competition then we cannot expect that there will be any more serious and major shifts. In more modern health insurance systems in Europe, one of these is Dutch, which is the same in the phase of change. There is competition at the level of insurance companies in both compulsory and supplementary and voluntary health insurance. But there is also competition among healthcare providers. Here in our concept, in our existing health system and in this supposedly new concept, nothing in this sense changes. Therefore, any shifts we will make will not be enough to change the health system from the foundation. And that's supposed to be a declared wish, so it says here in the strategy and so on and in the opening part of these laws. About the extensive and deep reform of the health system in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, some of the things in these legislative proposals should be supported, such as insisting on prevention, but there will be little help from laws. In telemedicine, of course, it's a follow-up of modern technological trends, and it also doesn't require a change of law. Unique internal surveillance, the establishment of a health institution, of course it should have been done before. The inability of private practice in the healthcare institution in which the doctor works. Of course we support it, but these are all very small shifts, and the whole system, therefore, remains set up as it was before. What is particularly worrying is that the health care system at this middle level, at the county level, therefore, the county hospitals remain exactly the same as it was. And we know in what state the county hospital in the Republic of Croatia is, in fact, in a state that is completely unsustainable. These county hospitals do not have sufficient financial resources under the laws passed by this Croatian Parliament because the system is only decentralised under the authority, but is not financially possible. Then I cannot maintain ongoing business, let alone the modernisation of the hospital system in the Republic of Croatia. And again, I must remind myself that the modernisation plan that was adopted in 2003, which during the five-year period was about 7 billion kunas, which is big money, is also a big job, that this plan for the modernisation of the hospital system has been collapsed and that only some hospitals in the Republic of Croatia are likely to modernize for some political reasons, and that those most in need such as the County hospitals in Vukovar, Vinkovci, Sisak, etc., that these hospitals remain out of any modernisation, and of course with county sources of funds there is no saying that these modernisations will come. In this segment, therefore, this package of laws does not make any moves. So, the shifts are really very small and the emphasis that the minister very often mentions and spends on them too many words such as that the administrative councils of the home health condition that someone would be a member of the board of directors to be that he has high school preparation, it is of course okay, but it is not a problem likely it is a fundamental problem, but the problem of course is the establishment of homes of health and of course the roles of these administrative councils. It is logical, of course, that as the minister says, a chimney man or someone else who has nothing to do with the health system should not be the manager, or a member of the board of directors, but it is a very small shift, often those who know how to do more harm to the systems than those who do not know, which, of course, is a very small matter, not just health care. Of course, and the emphasis from the protection of health on islands, it's okay, but it's not the basic problem of the health system, it's its overall business. So these laws are an attempt to cure one patient, this patient is the health system of the Republic of Croatia, that is also the fact that in the rebalancing of the budget that we had here 15 days ago, we finished all that we had achieved in the budget into the health system. It is a confirmation of the recognition of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that this health system is sick and these shifts that are very small have no say that there will be a more serious recovery of that system because the system as I said more or less remains the same as it was before. Therefore, in Croatia and after these laws and after a year as long as it takes for the Croatian Health Insurance Institute to coordinate its structure with these laws, we will be more or less in the same position, we will have the same internal structure, the same problems, these small financial injections that are supposed to be achieved by burdening citizens through the introduction of a double list of medicines, through the participation that remains too small, too narrow to make this system truly healthy, in order to set minimum standards for the protection of the health of all, and in order to enable those who have the opportunity to pay more to have more health protection of a higher standard, this system does not almost allow. We in voluntary health insurance even if we have therefore voluntary insurance houses have achieved almost nothing but diagnostics and often after the diagnostics that can therefore be paid again, the patients who are more wealthy are returning to the regular health insurance system and instead of getting rid of it are additionally burdened. Therefore, in this segment, this package of laws, therefore, the Voluntary Health Insurance Act and the Mandatory Health Insurance Act do not change anything, so the system remains what it is. Therefore, we cannot expect to achieve something large and, in fact, after these packages of legislation and after a strategy that has been adopted to the Republic of Croatia, only a new serious reform of health. These are the reasons, therefore, why the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party will not support these four laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70485	Thank you. We have two corrections. First, Mr. Representative Andrew Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70486	Thank you very much. I must correct my colleague Radosh's false allegations when he said a series of seven billion kuna investments had been cut off. No inherited investment has been terminated, and new investments such as the construction of the Transplant Centre, such as the restoration of new departments and hospitals, have been opened. In particular, your colleague Rados is not exactly telling you that Vukovar Hospital has been bypassed by the renewal of investments. This is not true because in 2004 we just received on our request a loan from the Council of Europe right in the course of an investment of 100 million kuna in a Vukovar hospital that will not only be renewed but will be upgraded with a large polyclinic and other departments. Unfortunately, it was in 2000 that the investment in Vukovar was cut off, and there was a desire to shut down the hospital. In 2004, investment was renewed and it will be safely completed within the next three years.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70487	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70488	I am correcting the inaccuracies of the great colleague Rados that the Croatian health system is ill. According to all international companies, Croatian health care is still in place regardless of the damages of the old government, and in part the new authorities are in 38th place for excellence among 191 countries. There is a danger that only changes make this very, still very healthy health system worsen.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70489	Thank you. On behalf of the HSLS Club, Mr. Representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70490	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Today's debate still seems to be happening to me in front of a slightly larger number of audiences than when we... about the strategy that took place in the late afternoon, and on the other hand I stick to what my colleague Radoš said that some who do not come from the system several times about this system can be more objective critics and judge what is going on there than those who come from that system and the fact that it seems to me in the High House sitting, if I am not wronged by 14 doctors, it is almost 10% the composition of this House, that there is a former health minister sitting there, and even between the inga and the war minister of health, it really shows how the parties are holding a lot of account about who is going to be sent to this High House and that health is pretty good or even too well represented,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Over-representation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] During my first reading on behalf of the HSLS club, I was quite skeptical and critical of this offered package of health laws, but then after that you are called by people and by trying to actually these systems inside explain how this system works. And exactly what Letica said would be the end of us if all the social subsystems stood as well as Croatian health care as Croatia's health care stands in relation to some of our other subsystems, so in the meantime, I did something to ease those attitudes. And between these radical reforms of rotational I am also for these conservative ones, those small steps, the mouth full of patience, we can come up with what should be the goal of these laws, which is to provide quality and accessible health care to all our citizens and more adequate functioning of health in the existing financial conditions that we will agree to be far from declaring them great. And it's been clear to all of us for a long time that the health care area literally concerns every single citizen of ours. I say, in our first reading, we were somewhat more skeptical and we always felt that it was good to consider all the views and objections expressed because we have and we insisted that the discussions should not be ideological, that they should not be party-colored, indeed it is very important to reach full consensus and that no discussion, reform of strategies should be taken into account on which policy option has replaced how many directors, but rather, through one inter-party and within the parliamentary dialogue, try to reach as many quality solutions as possible. It is always with reforms so that these solutions will come of a better quality, whether rights will be realised for all our citizens, and for those poor, and for those socially endangered and for pensioners, but we are also aware that there are those whose wage power allows them to pay for a health care service. We'll see how it's realized then. Until certain changes in these small steps and the mouth full of patience, we think it is a society but we will also say on behalf of the club some insufficient ones which we think can still be changed and that actually the legislator can install them in this final bill, so we will start with the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act. Therefore, Article 3 provides for the obligation for the counties and cities to provide funds to cover the loss of health institutions whose founders are. We think that in practice it is a big problem how it will work because unfortunately these losses of individual health institutions are quite tens to hundreds of millions of kunas. And what I think to all of us here must be clear that these losses cross the budgets of certain cities and counties, and then really if they are the ones that have to cover... from which they will be able to find it and I fear that this transfer, an attempt to transfer the loss to local self-government and the regional administration that will go very hard or almost impossible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We also need to come from the same general known fact that not all of Croatia's counties and regions are equally developed and not all of the cities and counties budgets are equally high and yet again the question of how to settle these debts and what is the result that our citizens will not actually be equal in achieving their rights in obtaining health services. So I'm saying, that's where we need to find another formula, some other solution, and I'm not just saying one mechanical bureaucratic transfer. Furthermore, Article 25 states that at least one home of health is established in the area of the county and at least three homes of health in the Zagreb area. Again, I say a little vague logic because when we created counties, then the number of inhabitants wasn't the principle by which they were founded. They don't all have the same population and yet I should say take care of it, and we think that this is a vital rationalization of the network of our health institutions whether it really is necessary for each county to have its own home of health. Also, attention should always be paid to those very banal practical situations. There are many people who are residents of the border end of a particular county, so it is closer for them to go to a neighboring county than their own. I can only remember there in 93. Našice were part of Požega County and in fact more or less the citizens of Našice were bound to the city of Osijek, so it was... So Našice left Poželjka County and there in the mid-90s they became part of Osijek-Baranja County. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But certainly, there are as many examples as you want, and we just need to make sure that this current principle is not the only one to rule out the principle. What we are commending as a club is that this bill takes care of the development of medicine, and this requires the introduction of specialization in all segments of work in the health system, which is really necessary in order to step up with all the achievements in this area, as we say very clearly in Article 51. Thus, the introduction of specialisation is more than necessary to enable healthcare professionals of medium and higher professional training as it is different specific areas of work. I really think that you will agree that at the heart of this reform you should put nurses who represent one of the best parts of our health and that the legislator must stimulate them because we are really threatened by the possibility of this professional migration and we know what this would actually mean in the health system. I'm also going to say something about the Final Proposal of the Mandatory Health Insurance Act. I think Article 15 is unsettled because health services are listed whose salaries are not provided by HZZO. In developed countries of the world, there are taxa-listed sick conditions that cover basic health insurance entirely, which are acutely formed states, infectious diseases, psychiatric diseases, malignancies and certain chronic degenerative diseases. Article 15(4) states that the cost of accommodation and nutrition in healthcare for the treatment of acute diseases and conditions covers health insurance with 70% but does not indicate what these conditions are. Article 16 thus lays down two types of medicinal products, basic and supplementary where insurance is provided with free generic medicines, source medicines that are more expensive and which require additional payment. This has led to the fact that there are significant improvements because by establishing the basic list of medicines it will contain the media-economic most relevant medicines for the treatment of all diseases and will ensure... medicines that have been shown to be medically acceptable that we want to believe will also mean a more acceptable price for these same medicines. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This should mean a more rational use of medicines where insurance will be provided with free generic medicines, source medicines that are more expensive and for which payment is required. This is certainly going towards reducing the patient's right in our opinion because they will have to pay for a certain type of medicine that is on the supplemental list because some of the original medicines cannot be replaced with generic medicines and the same quality of action of generic medicines is also asked in relation to the original medicines. We ask ourselves what are the measures to put these medicines on these two lists because for some medicines and there are a number of generic medicines and better and worse quality. There is, however, the impression that this is only going towards a more rational use of medicines, but I'm still saying there remains a problem with those patients who use the original drug for their therapy, and this medicine is put on the supplemental list after this law has been passed. Will they continue to retain the right to use the original drug in their therapy? I think that should be taken care of and I hope that the legislator has solutions. I must repeat here what we said during the debate on the National Health Strategy, which concerns Article 28, paragraph 3, which states that from paying the administrative fee children up to 18 years of age, disabled with damage to at least 80%. The most vulnerable parts of the population should also be exempt from payment of administrative fees. For example, persons receiving social assistance, unemployed persons and pensioners who have a pension lower than, say, 1200 kuna. Such rights as the most endangered parts of the population are what makes up the social component of a country. And I think we need to take care of that. If we also had to realize that a large part of our population, our population, are poor people and should consider that people who are socially endangered have the right to health care that would... not from HZZO funds, but from the Special Social Care Fund of the Ministry. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Such a fund does not exist now, and the need for means to ensure that these rights are constantly growing. Article 66, too, needs to be fully amended in our opinion because it limits the use of compulsory health insurance rights to emergency medical assistance to those insurance and bonds that have not paid a contribution for at least the last 30 days. It's about these regular, messy payers. I don't think that insurance lives should be questioned, but the Bureau would have to find another solution to collect its claims. I say that they are not controversial, but there must be mechanisms that would, above all, put life at the centre of attention as something that is most precious. The final proposal for a law on voluntary health insurance in Article 18 provides that the contracting authority of additional health insurance is, inter alia, the state authority. ... This article does not show whether all authorities will negotiate additional health insurance for their employees or not, and it is necessary to lay down more clearly the conditions when the contracting authority is an additional health insurance authority. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The final proposal of the Health Insurance and Health Protection Act remains that the regulation of a large number of issues is prescribed by sublegal acts which we consider not to be good because this creates legal uncertainty and sublegal acts are always not, each time the best solution. Thus, Article 5 sets out which includes specific health care of workers and yet it is not clear whether workers will be entitled to preventive checks, and in paragraph 1, we should put the word "annual" in our opinion, so the item would read: Annual medical examinations and diagnostic procedures to determine their ability to work." This would just remove this dilemma of whether these checks are being carried out every year, and I'm really just saying that the insertion of this one word solves this unnecessary dilemma. Article 6 thus states that according to this Law it is considered a work injury, it is believed, what is considered a work injury? We think that it should be complemented by an additional sentence and an additional sentence which, as an injury to work and considered also diseases caused by negative psychological influence or abuse, mobing, must not be forgotten by employers and other employees in the working environment. I think that by doing so, only our Health Insurance and Health Protection Act would be kind of modernised, europeanised. We also believe that, in our Club, we should refer to Article 7 of this Act and the same is the case in the Mandatory Health Insurance Act as early as possible, but above all, as we have already mentioned, which limits the right to emergency medical assistance unless the insurance companies regularly paid the contribution or paid it for at least 3 months. Again, we must not question the life of the insurance company, but the Bureau must find another mechanism, another solution to collect its claims. ... It should be pointed out that the Proposer of these laws has only partly taken advantage of the possibilities to improve the proposed texts of the law and make them more socially sensitive in our opinion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is a partial tendency by the legislator to reduce the level of health care on the burden of the state as much as possible and to draw closer to the standards of the European Union. However, we still have certain specificities which still these Member States of the European Union do not and should be taken into account because the large number of working passive populations is an extremely poor education structure and a large number of pensioners. These are facts, facts of modern Croatia. I'm saying unfortunately we can't still compare to countries that are... Far more powerful than us and certainly that economy also determines the financial strength of their population, which can certainly be much easier to pay for most of the health costs than our citizens can. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is therefore necessary that the whole of our legislative system still needs as much as possible to base on a particular type of solidarity if we do not want a sick nation who, again because of the cost of treatment, will not be able to afford appropriate treatment because in the long term, it will still be much more expensive than before, and certainly we need to strengthen other sub-systems of society so that both society and the population can be financially strengthened and yet we think that most of the costs of treatment must be borne by HZZO. I think the legislator was supposed to create here simulations which, for example, could answer the question of what for an average family with today's incomes meant to treat one of its members from the most common diseases that are certainly no secret. I'm saying that the results of such a simulation would be devastating and that's why we at the Club think, we're going to support this Law precisely because, this package of laws, which we realize is still about our best subsystem, but we also insist that it has feelings for this social component because it is exactly a stock for a healthy, working-able nation without which it actually has no future. And as I've already said in this one of ours, there are 14 doctors in this House and one former minister but there are also some people who are also dealing with health care that should also be commended for all those initiatives that go here from these assembly benches that work like this, perhaps this kind of benign or even some of them are under the headings of fun, but let's say what happens to fellow Letica is this fight against smoking. And I think that that's how he, as a congressman, has just done the same pretty much to sensitize the public in fact that smoking is very harmful and that we should do it if anywhere else in this assembly we give our example here, so there it is, these social attacks and the 21st century as soon as possible. I say once again very seriously these remarks that come from the Club but as they really are the best social subsystem in our society, health care is what we think and advocate for these more conservative changes. So it's not radical but conservative. ... We will give this support, but with that I also think that these some, these remarks that are very benign, which are not maligneous and precisely this fact that this sensitivity, the sensitivity to the financial and material position of most of the population, would not be so bad if it were installed and I think what I think is even the text of the proposal of these, this package of laws much better than its perception in public. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What again, are you, uh... The problem arises...what is the public relativity of our ministry when, in fact, relatively good legal or acceptable legal texts are perceived in a completely wrong way in public. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But we'll give support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70491	Thank you. For the HDZ Club, a respected representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70492	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In our second reading, there is a package of four health laws that my colleagues today called a small health reform. Indeed, it is a small health reform, because there are only two issues for a major system reform – whether it is necessary or not if we need a consensus for it. There are no major health reforms in no country in the world, and we have been following them for years without political consensus, and even here today after this speaker we will certainly see more political than reasoned debates which is not bad, because health is unfortunately one of the arguments in political struggles. If this is to improve the health condition and to improve the conditions of treatment for our patients, then I welcome it. Why there was no consensus for a greater reform of the system. Because he wasn't in the last session, not in the past, not in any of these 15-year-old Parliament meetings. We were just to remind you in 1993 we passed the first major health laws. Before that, changes and additions were made. '93. We couldn't even go to some consensus. It was a time of war, it was a time of aggression on the Croatian state and were not exactly the conditions for some major arrangements. It was time to save what was saved. '96. We have gathered a coalition commission to amend that law. It fell apart after three months. As far as I know, the current minister, Ljubicic also called for consensus at the start of writing the law, but failed again. So we'll probably mature I hope within a few years for such a consensus. In doing so, I think of all parties without exception because without such consensus there are no major organisations in this system. That's why this package of laws doesn't make big moves, and I think that's good. Good for two reasons, not only is there no consensus but because it's very likely that we don't spoil what's good. You heard Professor Letica, he quoted the World Health Organization as saying that Croatian health care is among the 35 best quality health systems among 192 members of the World Health Organization. I think this is an opportunity to thank all health care professionals, doctors, nurses, technicians, their associates because for such a high placement they absolutely deserve this public thanks. So, according to health indicators, we are even better than 30 and the first among 192 countries. According to the organization of the system, we were placed 35 places between 192 countries. So we have something that's good and that doesn't have to be easily questioned or threatened by major reforms, but small steps improve on the basis of consensus as many social factors as possible that are on stage. Which is good in this system, so these laws aren't broken, and that's a big, big deal. It's not easy to fix what's not right. We've seen the 2000 strategy. She was great. She detected 15 of the biggest problems in the system, but failed to solve them. Of course she couldn't solve them because I repeat, there was no consensus again. In the current strategy we recently adopted, I believe that by the end of the term of office of this government, we will address at least 10% of the objectives, which would be very, very much. So, what should be held as a great achievement of the system is the World Bank's evaluations, the World Health Organization, which say that for this money that this country has we provide absolutely much, much more to our patients than other countries with much more gross national income. This is such a good assessment based on health indicators and I will now remind you because it's important to say, people need to know and need to do it again. Despite the war and the war destruction in the health system, we have so far invested 5 billion kunas to rebuild health facilities. There are now major investment procedures under way such as the complete restoration of the Vukovar hospital, such as the construction of the Centre for Transplantation and Completion of the large project “Rebro”, the hospitals in Zabok, etc. Therefore, investments have not been reduced even though they were the first few years focused on restoring what was destroyed by war, and unfortunately you know that health institutions were often the goal of enemy artillery. Despite such war events, we can boast, and among the few in Europe who reduced newborn mortality from nearly eight of 1990 to 4.9 last year. Perinatal mortality was halved from 10 permeation to slightly above 5 permeations in 15 years. Then, death from circulational diseases, which today are the most common diseases from 11 to 87 to 100,000 inhabitants. So we cut it by 30%. ... We almost halved the vascular shocks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It should be said that we are far better placed now than ischemic heart disease because we die less. In a year, even 11% decreased mortality from acute cardiac ischaemia, etc. etc. As for the indicator of life expectancy, we always talk about it is more of a consequence of standards and only 10% of health care. But we have a good step here, too, because the life span of 15 years was expected, and we were equal as the average of then Europe. It's 75 years old today, and in Europe it's 74. So for one year we live longer than the average of Europe, of course not still the European Union, which is logical. So these are quality indicators and you should stick to those of our medical reception non-nights. It doesn't primarily hurt. So everything we do has to be focused on it. This package of laws has improved a lot in the organization and these indicators will certainly be even better after applying this law in a few years. What did not solve this package and will not resolve without consensus is one of the health care quality factors. We of the 3 factors that the world's basic health management textbooks prescribe have two. We've got top-level staff training and we've got good governance. When I say yes to the 31st place in the management organization, forgive 35th place in the organisation of the management of the health blizzard between 192 countries. What we don't have is a third. We don't have stable funding. Stable funding will not, once again, be achieved by this law. It's just gonna get better. Stable funding awaits some better times of great consensus of all parties. Therefore, these laws did not achieve what is required and what the OECD said in 2000 that the financing of the system must be proportionate to gross national income. At this point, we are still funding the system even more than gross national income allows, in objective terms. That is why we stand out 9% of GDP, most of all European and indeed all countries in the world. What this law corrects is a relationship to money, according to money means citizens, because it establishes 3 large and important pillars of financial control. One of them is the system of the new Insurance Office, no longer run by the Croatian government, but by the assembly. Many say it's going back. It may be, but that step backwards has been taken by all European countries and in no government manages state security but by the insurance assembly. Their step backwards proved to be good, so let's try to do it ourselves. The Assembly shall be responsible for the balance of expenditure and income of the HZZO, if it is disrupted, it shall also make a resolution of the Director of HZZO if it leads to an increase in expenditure compared to revenue. But it also imposes on the director's duties, but not only the director of the facility, but also all the department heads. It is a provision that exists in the countries of the European Union long ago, we accept it only now. The responsibility for health finances means responsibility for national health. Because the one who spends money is not meant to be responsible for insufficient health indicators. And there's a hell of a lot of money going on with us. There's only one link in the world chain. Let's take medications, this law determines list A and list B. It's wrong, and this time it's heard, and in the last reading, the list A is generic drugs, and the list B is not. The minister made it clear that the list A is not only generic medicines, it is also the original medicines that will give the lowest price among parallel medicines. So there'll be about 50 to 60% of the generics, and the rest will be the original drugs. These generics, and this should be pointed out continuously, are not weaker than the original in their actions, because the World Health Organization and our institutions are also behind it, especially the Agency for Medicinal Products that monitor the quality of the imported or manufactured medicinal product. But what does this accomplish? It is to be achieved that we do not throw an annual billion and 200 million kunas into the sewer. However, according to the World Health Organization, 40% of all prescribed medicines from Croatian doctors never end up in the patient's body, but in the pharmacy, after the deadline goes into the trash or sewerage. When this information was presented in Geneva at the World Health Organization Assembly for Croatia that 40% of prescribed medicines worth billions and 200 million kunas never enter the body of a patient but are thrown away then a colleague from another country said, you are a happy people, because they all drink who knows how many more would be sick. Excessive treatment is the most common diagnosis in the United States and is called overtreatement. It is believed that 200 thousand people in America, and in other countries, only others, suffer from excessive treatment. 200 thousand people have more damage than the benefits of drugs. In Croatia, the situation is so much better that we have fewer inhabitants. But the suffering of excessive therapy is even more severe. The pharmaceutical industry aggressively imposes drugs on doctors. Let's just remember three affairs in the last few months, an affair of a large number of conventions traveling across other continents to prescribe medicines. Remember the affair of clinical trials of medicinal products recently. Some had bills in Austria and were paid there for these procedures. Let's just remember the bird flu at the end. Why hasn't there been any news of bird flu for two months, and until then it was daily news of the day? Because the pharmaceutical industry sold out supplies of the so-called. medicines for the virus. It wasn't a bird flu that was smaller or larger before or after. It was just a big, interesting lobby. Finally, look at the home court for Pliva, a drug manufacturer. Why didn't that happen when we sold it to the INA? There was no destabilising the country's monetary system, and Pliva caused it. Why? Because profits in the pharmaceutical industry are the biggest profits of all activities in all countries of the world. And that's where we have to rationalize and say, the pharmaceutical industry her yes, but first and foremost the patient does, and that's what he needs. But not what would hurt his health. And that's why this A-list technology and the B-list in several European Union countries has been tested, we're using their experiences, we're not introducing anything new, we're using their better experiences. Of course, something has been modified and improved. Therefore, I think that this law will lead to rationalisation in drug consumption, which will also mean improvement for the patient, but of course also improvement for the financial system. What should still be pointed out in these laws as quality, it is certainly a reduction of the waiting list. That's a little bit of a talk. We will be the first country in Europe to guarantee the patient that after a certain number of days of waiting he has the right to get out of the system and get paid service in a private network of health services. Also what's good is prevention. Someone's here to prevent the law from being dealt with. It must be dealt with by law because preventive checks must become an obligation. In order to become a commitment, we must commit doctors and, of course, we must pay for them. Because what is not paid will not be done. The pilot project in the last two years has shown at the level of primary health care that it is of all the so-called so-called. healthy insurance even 40% had pathological results on such a preventive review. Therefore, the comments that the preventive review of spending money does not stand. Because the sooner the disease is discovered, it's better for the patient, but it's better for the system because it's cheaper treatment. Money that goes to prevention has never been dropped, it's money that's useful to both the patient and the overall financial system. Because it saves huge expensive expenditures that occur when the disease is diagnosed at a further stage. I think there should still be an important and very high-quality attempt to move the system's organisation away from politics. It is something that will likely in the early years cause both misunderstandings and perhaps certain crises. But everyone warns us if we persist in this we will get a state Health Insurance Service that will be very professional and quality and then we could do what counterpart Radoš said to create parallel competitive systems. Honestly, if we gave some competitive system to our HZZO, our HZZO wouldn't last long, and that wouldn't be good for his insurance companies. So there should be step by step and very careful. The law package definitely defines for the first time a basket of services obtained from basic insurance. The legislator opted for the definition of a percentage of payments, so he did not list services that go into the basic basket but said how much each basic basket service pays for state insurance and how much additional. This supplemental now is not on the market, it remains socially, very socially sensitive and remains the only country in Europe that does not have that supplemental system on the market. In other words, the additional system is paid by a flat-rate payment rather than a market payment because it would be three to four times higher. In addition to this second reading, the legislator accurately defined List A at the request of this House. He also introduced a categorization of medical technology which I hope will reduce the unnecessary outflow of money in another lobby, which is the lobby of a medical equipment manufacturer who is capable of destroying systems and political and organisational just to sell his own. They're initiating affairs, let's remember the Schimacu affair whose goal was to raise the price on the market. We endured, all the competitions she participated in, and this company achieved 30% lower prices than the previous ones, and that's why it needed an affair. Other affairs are being prepared. Anyone who enters to break the price on the market in a serious game will have such an affair, but I'm telling him to hold out, because it's for the benefit of our insurance company and our health system. What else the law provides, categorization of hospitals. I have to say we're a little skeptical, because so far we've determined that categorization several times. I've known in the last 15 years the five commissions that were supposed to carry out the categorization have not been made by anyone. If this law succeeds, it will be a big step, but I doubt it because there is simply no single model in the world. Again, we will have to go our separate ways, as we had to do to privatise primary health care in our own time, because there was no recommended single system. Here's what else needs to be pointed out for this law. A colleague, Professor Kramaric, said the law is better than his perception in public. This is always the case with health care because health is always viewed as extremely critical of what is good, because health care as the only area of human activity is interested in all of those who will only be born to the one who is today at the oldest age and therefore the criticisms are growing and good and desirable, but yet some criticism needs to be recanted here. First, it is said that this law will burden the sick more than the healthy. That's not true, of course. The patient and here retains a full social system of surcharges, a completely free list of As, so the cheapest... drug that is nowhere else in Europe anymore. We're the only ones with a list of As without any extra charge, without any participation. That's why I don't think it's right to say that the poor here will pay the burden of the rich because we keep and improve the income price. So those poor people will still have all the benefits they've had so far, and I think we're still at such a level of economic development that it will take a certain number of years. It's final. It is not possible to talk about everything in a short time, this law will certainly improve both the organisation and control of the system of financing and expenditure control, meaning rationalisation in financing, and should certainly be commended for the part where it will improve health care at work, because it needs really big reforms. That's why our club and our party will support these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70493	Thank you. At 11.4 p.m., the time has expired for a ten-minute hearing. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70494	I thank you, Mr. President. I would correct the inaccuracy of fellow Hebrang, who said that this assembly could hear that the lists were divided into A and B according to whether they were originals or generics. I would point out that I don't think it could have been heard in this assembly, namely very good people differ that it's two lists of what we most quality, the most effective drugs are on that other list and I think it would be crucial for us and this country that we don't share patients with those who have so-called. First categories and other categories to those who have a chance to get to the drugs, which are listed A versus list B. I correct the incorrect indication of the difference between generics and originals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70495	SDP advocates' club, respected representative Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70496	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. From the SDP Club, we have already repeated so many times what we think should be done in the health insurance system to make it more efficient, to make it more accessible to patients, to make it financially sustainable and to make it possible to finance it from existing sources or from the existing growth of gross social product in an additional sense, and from the beginning we have been pointing to the inadmissible behaviour of the current government in these last two and a half years, which also refers to changes in the system of financing of health insurance and which are reduced to any insufficient money that cannot be covered by, or at least this government cannot be covered by existing, existing sources, transfers as an additional cost to patients, i.e. as an additional obligation to lower levels of state government or more specifically to units of local self-government or county. That is why we are completely rejecting an initial thesis on which the proposed reform is based. The reform is based on a requirement to reduce the burden of health care on the burden of the state and to transfer some of these burdens to direct financing by insurance companies, i.e. patients. It is one thesis that has been very perfiduously placed in the Croatian public for a long time. We don't accept it, reject it, and therefore completely reject these methods that are used to further burden patients and the state that allegedly pays everything now, partially relieves it. It is also true that the state very little co-finances health costs, that most of the health costs, i.e. almost 100% of the costs of health care, are financed by employees, workers in the Republic of Croatia, who make a significant and large share of their earnings, what they have created by their work. And from this, they are financed on a solidarity basis by all, and their health costs, their needs, but also by the needs of those who do not work in Croatia, members of families with abstentions and the like. A country which, so undetected and very, I would say, took all the credit in the section relating to health care financing, in fact, only maintenance or should finance maintenance and investment building or renovation and renewal of health facilities. These are health homes, these are hospitals, etc., where health homes have again fallen on the burden of the county, and no state budget, or state. As the state does, we just heard that 5 billion invested separately. More is invested if we look at the entire period of existence of the Croatian state. However, the priority of these investments is by no means what was rational and what should have been supported. The real investments started in the real recovery of these capacities only by changing political power and by changing the functioning of the country at all in 2000. They were continued during the government's term of office, however, some of these investments go exclusively into political investment in order to again invest in something that has no rational reason, when we look in a health sense, to raise a political rating of a ruling party who really does not regret budget money to spend it in order to create a good image of its social sensitivity, about its willingness to dialogue, about how it should please everyone, even if it is completely irrational, even if it was completely irresponsible as part of investments that are currently under way and that are being built as monuments, not as institutions, or hospitals or health institutions that will serve people, patients. On the contrary, I say, it's built as something that should actually be darkened by the real truth and distract the public from what is crucial. And there's only one fact that's crucial. In two and a half years of the government's mandate, and even under this proposed package of health laws, which should be small steps in health reform, nothing new is proposed. The only new thing is that earlier, former health care was financed on the basis of basic and supplementary health insurance. That the basic and supplementary health insurance was basically paid by employees from their earnings, and additionally depending on the will of the insurance company itself. And that today, with the supplemental and basic, more payment is introduced, or already introduced, fees of 30 kuna per month. To introduce this package of laws further financing medicines by direct payment or from some new additional insurance which will also when we get opportunities and offers in shelves that will also have to be paid. And all of this is an empty story, all of this is an empty deception, all of this is a clean "public relativity", a clean PR and an attempt to detach, transfer responsibility from those who are responsible, which is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, a resolute ministry, or as I like to say, a health administration that determines, creates and orders all the conditions of operations in the health system, but the responsibility for fulfilling these promises or the fulfilment of those rights dictated by the central state is partly transferred to the hospital administration, partly to doctors who find themselves crucified between the needs of patients and the restrictions imposed on them by that state administration. It's being transferred partly to the county that all three of these are mentioned and could somehow be tolerated, but what these expenditures, which these unsecured costs, the irrationality of the system created by the ministry and the government, are being transferred to patients, is what we at the SDP Club cannot accept, and which is why, despite the fact that there are some small details in these laws that can be considered positive steps, we reject and we don't accept. With the exception of the Health Insurance Act at Work because we think that this Law is going in a good direction, that it is returning protection to a place she should never have lost and that she has lost again thanks to one insensitive, irresponsible and insensitive policy, long-term HDZ policy. Namely, those who created a state where both prevention and health care at work fell out of the health system and became only an additional cost and left-hand impediment, you are now, you should greatly be entitled to this now through these proposals of the law to a small door, but yet they return. That kind of gratitude and that kind of benefit from those who run the country, we don't support it. Thank them. We simply think that what is going on permanently, which is the reduction of the rights, the rights of patients in every respect, what happens throughout this time, should be stopped, stopped, and not then corrected, treated, returned or I don't know which methods to re-enter the existing system. The government is publicly declaring this high level of health care rights. As I said, even usurping something that is not her merit, boasting that the state and government are funding health care. But hidden from the public, far from these lights of the reflectors, far from the constituencies and other media speakers, in direct communication with those who are directly in contact with the patients, which are health professionals, they are asked to handle this disproportionately between the available funds and the costs that exist on their own. The government does not feel the need to reorganise the system, that what exists and even in every household, and let alone in not one such large system as the health system to shut down those holes through which so much health money is unnecessarily needed, it requires people at an operational level to cope with whatever they know and most often at that lowest level in the infirmary this is resolved in a way that patients are delayed, that their treatment or their diagnosis of their illnesses and the problems are delayed from today for some subsequent period. As a result, waiting lists grow, which is why waiting lists are extended and no one is talking about it. No one is responsible for this and therefore no recognizable or concrete measures are offered here. It is said that there are no big steps and that it is good, so as not to spoil what is good in Croatian health. Here's that part of the sentence I agree with. It really wouldn't be good for you to take that old course of yours now and spoil what's left of it. However, we ask the question why do you not move to correct what is wrong? And there's a logical answer to that, or at least in the absence of an answer, we found it ourselves. You are not correcting what is wrong to avoid touching the interests of various very strong financial powerful lobbys that have their own interests in the health system. It is much simpler for this government not to touch on these powerful and powerful lobbys than to deceive citizens and to touch on their rights, reach into their pockets, and therefore the only measures that have been proposed and implemented so far are the introduction of new health protection burdens. I will repeat, a new tax and now that we are getting new co-financing of medicines that will not be covered by health insurance, but if you want better quality and more expensive medicines, more effective medicines that will not be on this list A or the basic list, all of these respected patients who are allegedly showing great care will have to pay in the future. There is no compassion for them, no caution for them not to be touched by their rights. It reduces the level of solidarity, it touches their rights and, in our deep conviction, it actually touches the quality of the well-established relationship between patients and the public health system by which patients, financing their health care from their gross earnings, must have far greater rights in everyday practice than it is today, must not only be aware of the declared rights in law but really fulfil their legal obligations by a health system governed, guided and defined by the central state, by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and by the restoring ministry. Allow me this opportunity to ask another question that has never been answered. The introduction of haraks as we have said or an administrative fee of 30 kuna per month for those who are sick and who have to seek health care under the pressure of the public has introduced some benefits in relation to the harac for some groups of citizens. However, this state income that goes directly into the budget of the state, i.e. at the disposal of the Ministry of Health, is collected very volunteering, very without any compensation collected in the hospitals of these or those levels of nurses and doctors. At the moment when this additional job was introduced into these infirmarys although it is known that this additional administration is not counting on the administration at the social care centres where the right to return to what is costing more expensive than this tax is charged, counting on the efficiency of our administration is said to be part of these revenues, which would be totally fine to go back to nurses who are completely free, completely amateural, completely volunteering and unfortunately for the damage to the quality of providing services to patients who come to these ambulances doing. And it was said that, promises were raised, questions were raised, but once again, time and a very successful pioneer about how everything in health care was super-functioning covered that demand and this somewhat bold fact, brazen exploitation and non-payment of work by those who should pay for the work. Well, here's the thing, even though I know that in this direction, even after this intervention, nothing will be improved, that the nurses in the infirmary will continue to do the job, responsible even for the money collected, will be further threatened, further exploited, patients damaged, although even after this intervention nothing will happen, but let this be a small contribution to an additional demagogy, one obsession, one delusion that is reportedly undergoing reforms in the health system. Finally, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected by the Croatian public, and this reform and these packages of the law are passed just before the constitutional assembly break has some symbolism in all this. And last year, a small door was introduced quickly and suddenly as a small reform step before the full year, the administrative fee introduced, so another additional burden should be withdrawn, but also at a real level to say after these reform procedures, one year after the administration tax and additional harassing on patients is introduced, the obligation to pay medicines that will no longer be available to you through health insurance instruments and one step at a time this government leads us beyond solidarity in health care, leads us further away from strengthening the public sector in health care and leads us beyond what has been achieved, or lowers the level of patients' rights achieved. As a result, and solely because of this devastation of a well-inherited health care system, the SDP Club will vote against all laws other than this law which, unless it is operationalised and implemented, will not have positive effects and positive steps. We'll still vote for him, but we won't vote for all this. We reject this and keep it another of the whole series of frauds which, by denying citizens one step at a time, the government of the Republic of Croatia is enforcing their rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70497	Thank you. We have a series of corrections of incorrect allegations. First respected representative Mario Zubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70498	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There's a lot to fix what Mrs. Antunovic was saying. She mentioned that this law, these changes, is demagogue. I think this whole exposure was one demagogy. First, she said political investments were carried out by the ministry and the government. It's just not true. The government is not conducting political investments in health care. And second, she said the government doesn't feel the need to reform the system. That's not true either. The government makes it change and improves the health system. And she asked why we're not going to fix what's wrong. We know what's wrong, but some things like this exposure are incorrigible, so we can't fix it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70499	Second correction by the honourable representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70500	Thank you very much. Inaccurate co-worker said the health investment priorities in the period until 2000 were unfair. In fact, she probably forgot that in 1998, there was a period of Serbian aggression that destroyed health facilities for five billion kunas. And we made up for it from 95 to 2000. Therefore, there was no investment unfair but an investment was just. It was not an investment that was unnecessary, but an investment was necessary in what the grenades destroyed. Another thing that is incorrect is that this law introduces additional funding for medicines. Conversely, the first country to establish a single list is a list of "A" on which there is no surcharge. For the first time in Europe, there is a list of medicines that are not paid out of the insurance pocket, so the opposite of what she said. He finally says these laws don't fix what's wrong. They're doing a hell of a job. All that the colleague introduced in the previous term, which is that she abolished 20 health homes by this law, stopped, that she had abolished health homes on islands that were severely damaged because of that in healthcare we are returning. What's stopped the doctor from doing this afternoon and in conflict of interest at his workplace because he's working for cash in private, in the morning for the state, and we're ending it. So this law corrects a lot of things that didn't work out.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70501	Third Amendment, Honored Representative Kajo Bucan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70502	Thank you. It was said to be in the health care system so that the real truth would be blacked out, these are wild stories, delusions and obsessions associated with the insensitive HDZ policy. And it is thus done according to the World Health Organization's source that the state of health in the Republic of Croatia is the World Health Organization according to the mortality of children and adults in the group, in the classification of the group from A to E as the most prestigious group, in the group A consisting of Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Great Britain and Switzerland. This is a report by the World Health Organization, not by a member of the Croatian Democratic Community Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70503	Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70504	Thank you, Mr. President. A similar correction. According to her colleague, HDZ uses investment to point to its social sensitivity. These four laws we are talking about today are false investments but they are in the service of Croatian citizens and with the highest level of sensitivity in Europe. That's the argument. So your quote is incorrect. These laws are investments and are very important for social sensitivity because they are. And everything else is pure politics. Besides, it's good to do good whatever the reason. Therefore, join us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70505	Next correction by the respected representative Marijan Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70506	Your Honor, Mr. President! In a number of incorrect allegations, I would say the most important one is that this government is making political investments and political monuments. They say in Zagorje, "Every one of them is a hell of a judge.". It is known who has done political investments and political monuments from Obrovec to the New Hospital and we, this government often ends those projects that you have unreally started with the necessary ones in Croatia so that what you have attributed to us should be attributed to yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70507	The next correction by the esteemed representative, Lucia Chikesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70508	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm correcting my colleague's quote when she says the law reduces the patient's rights. It just doesn't stand, it's untrue, especially the false claim that it seems perfiduously far from the public eye. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70509	Next correction by the respected representative Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70510	Thank you, Mr. President. In addition to a number of incorrect allegations, indeed a number of incorrect allegations I would correct one when it says that the government has very little financing of health care, so here it would be regulated that the insured persons are freed from payment payments if their income censorship does not exceed the amount of 45.59 budget bases and pensioners as well, then for unemployed persons, students, students, handbooks, reserve supplies, defence visions, now that I do not read all of this, then persons unable to live on their own and work that do not have the means to support and farmers for over 65 years of life by special regulations all and payments ensure that the Republic of Croatia does not speak the same surcharge for children up to 18 years of age and disabled persons who have physical damage above 80%. Then she also said that the government is responsible for the health system and health indicators. I'd just say that the health care system is only 10 to 20% responsible for health indicators while living standards and living habits are about 50%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70511	Next correction by the respected representative Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70512	I would actually like it to be true, but it's not exactly an indication of political investment and the political instrumentalisation of health that this government allegedly exercised and did not exercise old power. The sad truth is that in 2000 and in person Željka Antunović, for example, spent a cleanup at the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. At the head of the Bureau, she brought a man with whom no one on the Sava wanted to play tennis because we thought he was lame. In a similar way, she cleaned up most, most hospital directors, and the head of the health cleaning project was a person who had an average in high school of 2,03, the smallest in the history of the Sibenik High School.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70513	Dear Representative Stjepan Bačić. Next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70514	Thank you very much. Well, a lot of things were incorrectly said by counterpart Antunovic. I'll try to fix a few. She said nothing was done or closed the holes where the girls were. Well, that's exactly where we've done a lot. Remember in early 2004 the system spent 24 times more than in the previous period. We cut it to 4%. The second inaccuracy that by 2000 nothing good was done. On the contrary. Until 2000 the system was held and during the war and 1994 from its own resources was a rehabilitated system. And third, that fees are a hack. That's not true. The administrative fees exist in all countries of Europe, and to escape solidarity is not the same. Uh, these asset censorships that are being introduced are precisely because of the non-abuse of solidarity.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70515	Last correction, the honourable representative of Krono Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70516	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Among other colleagues, she incorrectly stated that this Law does not correct anything that is not right, because if it did not want to be touched in the interests of the powerful, however, Article 25 of this proposal is very clear and what has not worked out in a good way so that the county, in the area of the county, is established at least one home of health. In the area of Zagreb, at least 3 home health. The following paragraph 3 is also added: "The health home must be established on the islands of Brac, Cres, Hvar, Korčula, Krka, Lošinj, Pag, Rab and Vis, which are respected specificities of the island. Furthermore, it is incorrect to build political monuments because it is on Vis and Jelsa and on Solta that hospitals are built in the 21st century to protect and raise the quality of the health of such residents, and in the Split-Dalmatin County the birthplace that was necessary and thank you, Mr. Minister. Let's keep it that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70517	For the Club of HSU, respected representatives Josip Sudec and Silvano Hrelja. Here you go. Joseph the Judge, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70518	Dear ladies and gentlemen. Ten days ago, on behalf of the Club, I expressed dissatisfaction with the health laws, and today I find that the biggest trap of this health reform is its indeterminateness. Turns out it's the same formality. We've only broken the laws a little bit. It's not 18 or 19 anymore, it's a little lower, but it's basically a big difference. Why? So because these four laws that are in front of us in 85 sublegal acts will regulate actually the essence of health care. I don't know if that's necessary. I'm not a health care professional to judge that. So does everything have to be prescribed by sublaws? Should a doctor learn the technology of work or hide something called limitations? If the restrictions go in the sense that waiting is reduced, to give more unquality medicines, to make as few recipes as possible, to be as little instruction as possible. So if restrictions go into less protecting people's health, then we're energetically against it. So we sell the cat in the bag, and we'd like to see that cat. There's talk here all the time about generic drugs. I'll tell you something I didn't want to say last time. This winter, here at the pay phone, I apologized twice because I couldn't speak. So I had a cold, and I got drops for both the ear and the throat and the nose and the inhalers, and after a month I went to the doctor and I said, "Is there a cure to heal?" Yes, there is. It costs 219 kuna and it's not on the drug list. In three days, I was healthy. There you go, gentlemen. That's the difference in the list of medications. So the generics are one, one in theory and the other in practice. In theory, there is no reduction in the healthcare package but the question is whether we can maintain its quality and availability. We were also present at the workshop. We made remarks. However, these comments are not respected. It even turned out this way that we had some special interest. What kind of interest do I have to represent one drug or another? But now we're going out with the amendments. We'll see if he'll be willing to make these amendments and get rid of them. We believe that the assessment says that health care is irrationally organised, poor control of health costs, and long-term uncontrollable work and health spending has led to loss. Unfortunately, however, I do not see in these four laws that has been established, that a system of solid control has been established. If it's going to be done by sublegals and I'd be glad to do it then it'll be done this summer and we'll see how it works in the fall. Secondly, whether future primary health care will take over 70% of the services or still 70% of the services will remain in hospitals and primary health care will continue with its 30% protected chieftains in the system and will again be well. And the patients, they're so patient. Who's responsible for them? We didn't find any answers in these four laws. There may be answers in those sublegal acts, but these sublegal acts as the cornerstones of the future system should wait. There may also be scope and quality and availability and quality and quantity of health services. If we can solve all this, thank God we'll be better off. But blessed are those who believe. It is good to propose greater responsibility for management staff and administrative boards for funding. However, if they are responsible for funding and everything is determined from Zagreb, the question is how many are their powers. It is a good thing that expert councils are being appointed, but it is a system of independent contract doctors who are chaired by the head of the home health and how much influence he has on them. I think they listen more to the one who provides them with the head, not the one who formally rents them rooms. Secondly, in the proposed Law on Infringements at Work and Professional Diseases, we think a colleague, my colleague Hrelja, will say something about it. As an economist, however, I would like to say that these four legal regulations remain to settle a billion and 600 million. How? So here are 380 million administrative fees, 303 million from drug savings, and the remaining amount that will be settled by increasing the price of the supplemental health system. This means that we will pay more from workers' salaries, from pensions, and that whoever has money will also be able to buy quality health care. That's a really bad comfort. It is a realization that our past work at this time is moving to a new quality of the deceased work, unfortunately. And what would I say in the end? I'd say that perhaps the Croatian health care needs one medicine. Last time I didn't tell him my name, and now I'm telling him, maybe he's hiding in this degeneric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70519	And in the follow-up of the Club of Representatives of HSU, respected representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70520	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. It's true that the Ministry made a lot of effort and organized a lot of workshops, a couple of workshops with all the healthcare entities and that the debate was quite lively. However, I may have too many criteria, but I cannot possibly understand some social partners specifically my former colleagues in the union who have collected 330,000 signatures and have called out passwords that health services will be inaccessible to the poor to be silent now. What happened at these workshops? Whether it's some mental circuit repair workshops or what happened because solutions don't protect the poor. We haven't taken off the administrative fee, nor are we setting up something that we haven't matured yet because we haven't figured out what income censorship is, which is property censorship, or what is income censorship. We need to clear those categories to be fair. However, all of this is gone and suddenly everyone is silent. What I personally did not experience, I did not experience a public debate on the principle of a panel discussion that we have, we observe a system, we diagnose the problem and we offer a solution. I haven't experienced it yet. The only thing I know is that the problem with the liquidity of hospitals as the most significant factor in the system exists, and I'm the problem with the solution of that indifference here through these solutions that we're given not to see. Then what else would I have to trouble about? I'd be troublesome to supplement health insurance and cover the cost of the drugs. Why not? Why not? But what's the reason we don't cover the meds. In Croatia, the foreigners of the pensioners had one survey on long-term websites, a relationship of 70% of people is ready and correct the price of the policy, so to pay the higher price of the policy but for the height, or by the criteria by which pensions are increased, or harmonize pensions not with some wild criteria, so that the supplemental health insurance policy covers the cost of medicines. When he saw the devils in the last week, there was suddenly a lot more registrations on the websites, that is, a lot more people pleaded so that it came to 50 that they were willing to pay more, and that the policy of supplemental coverage and the cost of medicines. And in order to virtually eliminate any possible delusion, we in Croatia pay by, not by my knowledge, but by the knowledge of the World Health Organization, 18% of health services are paid by citizens in private and do not use public health services. What I confess to my colleague Hebrang, if we add to that 1% that hebrang claims as a former minister that only 1% of the participation of citizens and even if we add 3 and a half percent of the participation of citizens through supplementary health insurance throughout the health care system is private and public citizens of Croatia participating at 22.5% of the total cost. Therefore, it is a total calculation, not to say that citizens in the health care system are participating by 1%. And what is the system of private health outside the system, what is he out of control? All of these are paid by Croatian citizens, and this burdens their pockets, or home budgets. Furthermore, we consulted drug manufacturers. Manufacturers of medicinal products support and strengthen the role of primary healthcare and support the availability of medicinal products through supplementary health insurance. What does the availability of medicinal products in the system of treatment mean? What does that mean? The availability of the medicinal product itself has great psychological significance and the very knowledge that I have a quality medicine has a positive effect on the outcome of treatment, as no one can ignore it. At this point, if we have two lists of medicines, the question of availability is very, very open. It seems to me that this attitude towards additional health insurance that covered and medicines, and that in the future it will cover only participations and orthopaedic aids, that a negative picture of this extremely useful, social and solidarity shocker, and that it is systematically working on the indirect shutdown of this institute which has been so difficult to obtain the right of citizenship on the Croatian stage. You know, in 2000, there were great problems and great resistances to be introduced. When this Supplementary Health Insurance Institute was granted the right of citizenship or in some way rooted in the system today we work not directly, but we are indirectly working on its disapproval. Says the People's Proverbs that a healthy man has a lot of problems, and only one is sick. These suggestions will give a sick person at least more headaches because with a health problem he will now have financial problems. What the Croatian party of pensioners wants to underline and wants to support is the Final Proposal of the Health Insurance Act. So on these three laws, our views and final decision depend on the amendments that we are going to propose. But support would be given in any case to the final proposal of the Health Insurance and Health Protection Act. Because we accept this as a challenge and a good attempt to strengthen responsibility for the state of protection at work. And the Croatian Party of Retired Supports It No matter how we are aware that the entire system is not yet defined. But we're going to try amendments and suggestions to the conclusions to make this whole system better defined. What is the basic problem that in some ways motivates us to give support is the following. It is unacceptable for the same contribution of health insurance at work to be paid by employees in city administrations, tourist agencies, schools and kindergartens, as well as employees in shipbuilding, construction and forestry where we know that the risk of accidents and occupational illnesses is significantly greater. This is inadmissible in the long term, and this is not in line with any European legislation, that is, the legislation of developed countries that give this issue very important attention and a very high ranking on the social scale of values. It is also unacceptable to transfer funds collected by special contributions to general health insurance and to the detriment of prevention. I have in front of me a report from the International Labour Organisation Advisory Mission and their more specialists in protection at the work of Mrs. Annie Rice, who was here on the mission from 5th to 8th December 2005. I'd just like to quote a few things. What was found as a problem and what was given as a recommendation. First, it is given, as a problem, there seems to be no mandate for prevention in the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and in the system of insurance against accidents at work and occupational diseases. Employers are now paying a single rate of 0.5% of the salary for this insurance. There is no risk-related contribution structure, nor a bonus malasses system that would give employers incentives to improve working conditions, to reduce the number of accidents at work and occupational diseases. Although there are proposals for a bonus malace system there are still no proposals for a differentiated risk class structure or in a simple form. 2004. The Croatian Health Insurance Institute raised 412 million kuna contributions, in the employers' contributions, but these funds go directly to the state treasury. In 23004 the fund paid 88m kuna for health risks. Although good employers can demand a certain return on contributions, a very small number of them are indeed trying to do so. Another 5 million kuna is used every year for administration. This means that around 319 million kunas remain in the State Treasury, so it is redeployed to basic insurance and could be used for prevention purposes. It is also estimated that the costs for the employer, for medical examinations, risk assessment, labour protection investments amount to 650 million kuna per year, a sum which is not negligible, which could also be invested in prevention, i.e. to finance from funds if these funds were used in prevention. What are the recommendations, the recommendations are part of the proposal for this law, and it is recommended that insurance be given an active role in the preventive protection of workers in order to be in a position to assist preventive activities. The Croatian Institute for Health Insurance should be entrusted with the control of funds raised from employers' contributions, now to the new institution. At the same time, a real incentive should be created to reduce professional illnesses and accidents at work by introducing risk-based contributions. Although in Croatia it is proposed a bonus malus system it is necessary first to build the cost-related experience with the efficiency of protection at work. This can be achieved by defining the contribution system for different risk classes. For example, Bulgaria and Hungary have 5 risk classes where the minimum contribution is 0.5 and the highest contribution is 1.4 of gross salary. This maintains a significant risk-sharing and solidarity. The important thing is, excuse me, away from the point of view preventative is the introduction of a bonus mallace model after a few years of experience has been collected. So this should be constantly monitored and seen how things are progressing. The system should be guided through a social dialogue system, i.e. the board of directors of this fund should be managed tripartitely. The Croatian party of pensioners will propose amendments that we consider necessary under this law. It will propose one conclusion which is our contribution to the improvement of the entire system, and this health insurance system, as well as the overall work protection system. And of course, the proponents' relationship with these amendments depends on our commitment to this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70521	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing with a session and a debate on a package of health laws. The first is the PGS, SBH, MDS, respected MPs Nikola Ivanis and Željko Pavlic. They're gone. They're losing their word. We're going to an individual debate. Representative Darko Milinović, he's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Kajo Bucan. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear representative, Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70522	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We don't even have a proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70523	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70524	Okay. I would nevertheless express the satisfaction that this entire package of laws has received a positive opinion from the Economic and Social Council except for one of the unions which has expressed its objection for procedural reasons. I think all of this package of the Health Act is too important to refuse for procedural reasons. I will look back here on the Final Proposal of the Health Insurance Act, protection of health at work, since it is also a profession to express my real satisfaction that here in the whole way regulates now protection, measures to prevent injury at work, and measures to prevent and detect professional diseases which would simply say specific health care. Article 5 sets out a series of measures to be implemented, which includes specific health care which could not, in essence, be implemented because of what and for various reasons. It is usually because of the lack of interest of the employer because we have in fact the fact that only these 10% of workers regularly used specific health care. They were mostly in construction and forestry where they were the biggest injuries, and perhaps out of fear of sanctions, such health care was then carried out. While it is interesting to say that the number of healthcare and social care reviews is almost negligible although this group of employees is according to European standards and our data on the scale of economic branches with the highest number of patients and due to the impact of the workplace. It is important to highlight here and it is good that the Health Protection Fund is established which would be where this type of protection or health insurance would be clearly separated. In fact, it has often occurred so far that accidents, treatment due to accidents at work or professional illness are actually a burden of treatment and diagnostics shifted to basic health insurance and certainly a strengthened role and specialists of medical work in this entire implementation of this law which is certainly good. And I'd just like to say when it comes to this law that it really is necessary to strengthen the specialization, or to refer to specialization and education, because the number of specialists so far is insufficient to implement this law. When it comes to the Health Protection Act, I certainly especially support what is now being shifted to primary health care, to prevention and promotion of health. Because it has repeatedly been pointed out that primary protection in fact needs to supply 80% of the public's health needs in order to implement this certainly needs to be gained, strengthened, legal but also in every other respect. What we would say is, in the debate, a representative of the SDP Club would say that nothing of this law is being corrected. I'd say he's doing a pretty good job. Here's a bad move from the former law to the former law, where I've run an institution myself, and I'm running today that's been affected by this law, which is the merger of health homes, and we know how much this has left the negative consequences on primary health care and on such institutions and some have created so many losses that today there are big problems how these institutions continue to function. It's a good thing these homes of health are founded on islands. However, I would point out here that here the funds for the administrative councils of these health homes are being provided which will be founded on islands which is certainly good. However, I would remind myself that indeed the health homes in other areas are also in financial trouble precisely because of the financing of the administration. And we see now that another number of members of the Governing Council for Home Health has been increased, and that seems to me to be the same for all members of the Governing Council regardless of the type of institution and size of the institution. So this is also an additional burden, an additional burden for institutions, which is why we believe that and it has been pointed out repeatedly that other health homes should also finance the costs of administration and costs at the end of the board, as it will be in these institutions that will be established. When it comes to compulsory health insurance here is on several occasions trying to prove that the law is socially sensitive and that it transfers funding to an individual which essentially the law itself does not say so. However, it is important in Article 15 that I do not repeat all that is stated and what is released and what is paid in full, that we do not talk about where this additional insurance is not paid for a whole set of insurance companies, which also regulates Article 21. When it comes to these drug lists, I see that this could be said in layman's terms of mistrust with the list, the basic list of drugs that really don't stand. And one positive shift which is certainly commendable, is that the costs of transport are paid. So now it's 40 km, but it also means for people who are 18 years old and who have chronic patients, and especially kidney patients, then those who are in the island area, the mountainous mountainous area, but also especially the area of special state care, which is particularly important, especially here for my county, which includes areas of special state care. It means that transport costs are paid in these areas regardless of distance. All right, let me get this straight. So, by applying this Health Insurance Act, health protection at work will certainly result in an improvement in health care at work, the preservation of workers' health but safe and healthy working environment, and the whole package of laws will achieve that the health system will be stabilised and it is good that all the changes we have stated are that there are changes. It's interesting when a colleague in front of a SDP club said that nothing really changes. And I don't know if anything's changing, then why go so far down on those laws if that's the case. But I think there is this all that I have stated that these are important shifts forward and that our task, and the task of all those who can participate in it really means all those interested in health care are interested in everyone from birth as well, nice Professor Hebrang said and those who haven't been born yet, but they're on their way to being tied to the health system all the way to the oldest. And that's why it's our job to promote health, improve prevention and interpret legal proposals and make it clear to everyone that surely because of these laws, no one will be denied in health care. In fact, we expect it to become more effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70525	Thank you. Honorable representative of Pearl Perman. She's gone. He's losing his word. Dear representative Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70526	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We know that we live in a country where the laws are passed at the speed of the Formula 1, and we don't usually welcome the implementing acts, or when they come into force, that law is inconclusive because it's in collegiate with other laws. I express my concern for the shorter time between the first and second readings and the speed of adoption of this package of laws. Mr. Minister, I am investing in a protest that you are not in workshops that you organised for representatives of interested groups of citizens and representatives of professional associations and trade unions invited representatives of roof organisations and associations of people with disabilities who know best the problems they face in achieving health care. I hope you know that because of the inaccessibility of healthcare institutions, people with disabilities cannot equally exercise the right to the medical services that belong to them. Unfortunately, by ignoring and discriminatory behavior, you support such a situation. What's this about? People with disabilities living outside major city centers do not share the same level of health care, or health care in the house. I repeat, I have warned you of this problem since the very beginning of your term of office, and you have so far done nothing but reduce the rights of medical care in the house. I don't understand your attitude towards people with disabilities. First you ignored them through the welfare system, and now you're doing it through the health care system. Whenever I warned you about the problems and discrimination of people with disabilities, you ignored it. Either you do not respect my opinion as advocates or you do not want to solve the problems of people with disabilities and thus show your attitude toward them and strengthen the image of them as well as of invisible people. Just because you don't respect me is no problem. However, ignoring the right to equal health care in the house has sad consequences. All these people have names and names. For months they haven't been bathed, bandaged, some of them lying in their wounds. That's what you're responsible for, Mr. Minister. I note that as a minister, you could only return the right to repay travel expenses to patients treated 100 km from the place of residence. You didn't do it either, but we're waiting for these laws to come together in practice. And practice is next. There are no laws, no rules in practice don't work. It has entered into force the Regulation on orthopaedic and other aids which has clearly reduced the right to perform certain aids or equipment. Except that the rulebook does not identify any damage and needs this rule has forced persons with disabilities to deal with crime. Please tell me, by what logic are you, by which logic can you determine how many times a day a child with developmental difficulties and an adult must change diapers and how many times will someone categorize? Your only logic was to reduce the number. You made people look for clues for what they didn't need and change them for other clues to buy as many diapers and catheters as they needed. Tell me, please, what makes these laws better and non-discriminatory? They're only better at reducing rights, and people seem to still be completely irrelevant in the whole story. You've created humanitarian cases from us, and you're destroying our dignity. Since we do not have the right to an orthopedic supplement as people with disabilities of the Homeland War, the difference between the market price and the funds approved by the HZZO must be reconciled by presenting our stories in the media and organising humanitarian actions, instead of introducing an orthopedic supplement according to the Croatian Defence Act model, thereby ensuring the right and protection of the dignity of persons with disabilities. Today you highlighted the question of responsibility. But you are now a minister and this law is not binding on you from tomorrow, but at this very moment. So I ask you, what about your responsibility now? He's not gonna say that the officials are responsible for the counters. You were also talking about prevention. How, then, to explain all items in the budget rebalancing when those related to prevention are reduced to or missing, e.g. HIV education. You're also talking about health homes on the islands. Unfortunately again, I'm returning you to a budget rebalance where there was no minimum health funds on the islands. You were also talking about control. We have the Law on the ban on advertising tobacco products, and we are still receiving "Greetings from Rovinj". Then how do you plan to control such a large system as health when we're talking about a lot of regulations, decisions, instructions. All these implementing rules, their change will have to be controlled. Tell me how when you can't even control tobacco products on national television. At no time have I felt that the principle of equal rights or equality is respected and that you respect the needs of an individual or target group, or that you provide them with equal opportunities on the same principles. Unfortunately, there is still a systematic violation of the human rights of persons with disabilities as patients and your work as minister has not shown you the will to participate in the resolution, but you have abolished the rights of persons with disabilities. You haven't given me any reason to support this law as an advocate, so I'm going to vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70527	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70528	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, dear colleague Škulić said that, say, patients, that persons with disabilities in the middle of Zagreb do not have the same right to care in the house, which absolutely does not stand. I mean, all the laws, he's written so it covers everything no matter where it is. And when it comes to saying, only laws are better at reducing rights. Indeed here, and you have looked back at persons with disabilities no rights have been reduced. It's just that it's increased. Thus, people with disabilities have, administrative fees have been released, surcharges are freed when it comes to full scope, they have the right to travel expenses, regardless of distance. So if she's less than 40 kilometers. So it's all just the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70529	Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative of the Chichin-Shain basket. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70530	I thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, here is certain that this law, this package of laws that we have, is certainly one of the most important packages that we have in these two and a half years in parliamentary procedures, and what is most important, directly affects the living standards of Croatian citizens. That's why I think it's important to give these laws special attention, and that's why I came to the debate that I once again underline some things that I personally feel are not good and it's not good that this law solves it. Today, we in the Republic of Croatia have already four forms of healthcare payments. So we have a payment of compulsory insurance, we have a payment of supplementary insurance, we have a payment of administrative fees, and we pay for the participation of medicines. You, Mr. Minister, introduce the fifth form of health care payment with an additional insurance proposal. Additional insurance used today for cca 900 thousand inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia, amounting to 50 kuna for pensioners and 80 kuna for citizens of employees, includes three forms of service delivery: diagnostics, hospital treatment and the cost of medicines and this: 350 medicines of generic nature and 150 medicines of the original. Croatia today spends cca 150 million for so-called expensive medicines, however, which are not crucial, but it is crucial that in the Republic of Croatia there are no quality statistics on how many patients there are, for example. with lung cancers, with bowel cancer or some similar severe illnesses. So you can't even see from your proposal whether in those 150 million you've secured the last generation of drugs or whether it's some other drugs. Mr. Minister, please supplement your proposal with the list of medicines, I haven't found a list of medicines, and not the cheapest but the most quality medicines. The prices of medicines in the Republic of Croatia are such that in addition to bakerys the most profitable are opened right now. Today, through various participations, we pay 15.5% for compulsory insurance, tax and administrative fee 30 kuna and payment of participation for drugs 80%, depending on the type of medicine. The data suggests that today the population spends through non-receptive medicines, about one billion kuna a year. Also, paying private services as well as giving thanks before or after medical intervention is also a kind of contribution to health care, and is estimated somewhere on cca 2 billion kuna. Today in the Republic of Croatia we have 1,050 pensioners who mainly pay for supplementary insurance due to objectively higher needs and thus per capitals contribute 600 kuna annually to every pensioner in the health fund. What interests this population most is not diagnostics and hospital treatment but exactly medicines, and you are now suggesting that this segment of service delivery is allocated to the so-called so-called. Additional insurance, i.e. to be paid through private insurance companies. If that's so interesting for private insurance, how come it doesn't pay HZZO the same? In fact, after a year, the pensioners will say that they will no longer pay for the extra insurance of 600 kuna a year because this is not paid because they are not constantly in hospital treatment and do not need a full-time new diagnosis and so little by little and other services will be transferred to additional insurance of private insurance companies that will then start their agreed policy for pharmaceutical companies, which with doctors and so little by little starts to charge the insurance service enormously. This is actually a model of price introduction plus services, i.e. the introduction of a completely new type of health on the market. The university professor who will retire in 2009 will have approximately 1.900,00 kuna pensions according to current projections. How do you, Mr. Minister, imagine that citizens with such or less pensions will be able to afford extra insurance with private insurance? The pharmaceutical industry is the strongest lobby in any society so it will be with us and imagine that quality when there are pharmaceutical industries and private insurance companies in the network. I'm afraid doctors will run out of patients, except pathologists and doctors of judicial medicine and an average of which traffic will increase significantly. Every social state, and this government calls itself that, must provide its citizens with the best quality medications for the most difficult Kazuistics. The two lists of medicines proposed by this bill are unacceptable for Croatian citizens, because it simply means that they are distributed to patients of the first and second categories or simply sick in our country with the same chance. Also, Croatian citizens will not have the same chances of health care because a large number of citizens, especially one million pensioners, will not be able to pay for additional private insurance. What makes Croatia significantly different from the rest of Europe is gross national income. The reduction in public for the benefit of private spending in health is completely inappropriate and it is totally unacceptable for Croatian citizens of whom almost 30% live on the poverty line as is an unacceptable idea of property censorship, namely it is acceptable at the level of the entire state but let's not go with it exactly in the health care that is proposed under the strategy, and neither is a proposal for income censorship because they will remain cca 60% of the current insurance companies without basic health care. That way, next to the poor, we'll become an even sick nation. What remains unacceptable is that this law monitors 65 sublegal acts that this honourable Parliament never sees and never decides on. And neither of us here who decide, we don't know what these drug lists are going to look like and what the drugs are on the list. I welcome the proposal to return the health home to the islands. It is these health homes of Andrija Printar that the World Health Organization has declared as the most qualitative segment of Croatian health, i.e. health care, a long time ago. Of course I think it's a good thing they're coming back and that's something I welcome in your proposal. But it's also a dilemma that they're homes of health. Is it just a bunch of tenants? What's a tenant? Is that a private? And if it is, what are the chieftains? And then what is the competitive relationship between a private doctor who invests everything and pays himself higher and higher so-called. Doctor of the employee working in health care homes on inherited equipment with guaranteed headgear. I have to admit that there's also something wrong, and I think that you as a minister would have to have the Ministry on it just as little to deal with because it's not a competitive relationship. Public policy is the obligation of all of us, and especially when it comes to health policy, social policy and pension policy. And he's asking for a lot of consensus on this subject. If the Alliance of Independent Unions that has collected 340,000 signatures of citizens who oppose the adoption of these laws, then we cannot talk about a consensus. It is at all costs to put the same proposals in the second reading, regardless of all the warnings that the proposals are not valid and to vote with the parliamentary majority. It is understandable to all of us that there are pressures from the World Bank and trends in the commercialisation of health services. But already in today's health care pay situation is 80% of private money, and only 20% of public money. Which means we're already on the level of Europe. So this relationship should not be deepened in such a poor society as Croatia. And perhaps only for the end, health reform and the desired savings from 20 to 30% should be required to introduce order into the system through information, through the introduction of normatives, through standardisation, through the reduction of patient pathways, through the given search protocols and through stronger controls. The example of doing 60,000 CT scans remains intact. C.T. scans include primary protection and specialists. Information would disable that duplication. Informing public and private health systems and networking would also result in significant savings. Also, for example, in Sweden, we have 3 magnetic resonators per 1 million inhabitants. In Finland, we have 2.8 magnetic resonances per 1 million inhabitants. In Croatia, imagine, we have 30 magnetic resonances per 1 million inhabitants. Personally, I cannot support this proposal from the Anglo-Saxon model of reforms that health care puts in a position of privilege only for the rich and leaves the poor to their fate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70531	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Kajo Bucan.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70532	In the presentation of our colleague, we are told to become a sick nation next to the poor. It's simply not true, if you follow the literature, namely. The World Economy magazine of March this year presented an analysis of Croatia's competitiveness in relation to other European Union countries through an analysis of agriculture, science, higher education, primary education and health. Our position on a measuring scale of 1 to 10 is between 3 and 4 with the exception of one spike that stops at a competitive position of 6.6 and refers precisely to basic education and health care. I hereby deny this statement of yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70533	Thank you. Dear Representative Stjepan Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70534	So here after these long disputes of this package of laws, I would say that it is a good thing that a second reading took place in such a accelerated process and that, in essence, these new amendments to the law, and the new laws can come into force to make that first step or that first step, as the introduction said. To start a reform that actually started with us in the 1990s and gradually the system was upgraded depending on the opportunities and economic situation in the country. Now we've come to a wall when we saw that actually the system with all its good side has one problem, and it primarily refers to financing and managing actually the responsibility with that money that's circulating in the system. That we need to strengthen responsibility here, and that is why it is also in these proposals for health care and compulsory health insurance, voluntary insurance and health protection at work. That's what the main emphasis is on, on that responsibility. Therefore, what is offered in the Health Protection Act is this very fact that the responsibility for managing the institution from the director is now descending to the level of those responsible for the management of clinics, departments. Therefore, the entire system is covered. The paper is that through such a way of taking care of one proper institution management, a special weight will also be obtained by the expert council, which in some ways is being expanded to make sure that all department heads are bound to be in it. The work of the administrative councils is also serious because it is in some way tightening the responsibility of these members of the Governing Council and a newspaper is being introduced, in fact, that has not been binding so far. That the members of the Board of Directors must be of high expertise. The newspaper is also what was mentioned, homes of health that were reduced practically under the old law. That one county has one home of health. It now opens the possibility that the county itself will decide whether to stay at that one home of health or to have more, but it is mandatory to introduce health homes to large islands, which is a good thing and has already mentioned several times why it is important. In the paper in this Health Protection Act, it is that the crisis headquarters of the Ministry of Health is established, which is absolutely necessary and has proved to be a great disadvantage that this headquarters was abolished, right at the Baxter affair because the information, while it was at the right level, was lost for a few days and many lives were the price for this disorganization. It's a good model that worked perfectly during the war and I think it's getting full significance in this bill. The law also highlights the importance of quality control of the system, so something that is introduced into the work of institutions, hospital institutions, that autopsy must actually be reported, all died in fact, but also the number of autopsyes that have to be periodically reported to the health ministry. And what's important in hospitals is that they finally break up with this conflict of interest that doctors can no longer do this extra working time in their own institution than they will now be able to do somewhere outside the hospital. I think that's good. What is also good, and many have attacked that the decentralised means actually enables the owners of county hospitals to use one part of the funds to cover losses. Because it's abnormal for some hospitals to get new equipment for a few ten million kunas and even one that doesn't owe them without paying suppliers for drugs at the same time. Therefore, I think it is now a legal possibility for that money to be used and for this purpose so far where it has been legally disabled. So it's one step, it doesn't have to be a rule, but it's a possibility when a certain institution comes in a crisis of blockade that can be kind of intervened in that way and I think that's good. It also returns to the system of autonomy of the Institute of Toxicology, which is very important now in the new times when it must take care of all these harmful substances that are circulating in the state, hence from food to various plant protection products, it is very important that this Institute is now as independent as it was in the first of our proposed laws since '93. Telemedicine is given great meaning, it has already shown some of its advantages, in this Law it is yet in some way given to that accent special that it must through informing the whole system in fact in some way gain at quality and what is still there envisaged it is what awaits us when one day we enter the European Union it is that 48 hours a week, it is indicated in this Law, the true God with a delay of 5 years which I think is good because at this time we do not have enough staff to satisfy these very conditions. The news is also that with the categorization of the accreditation of hospitals that have actually been under way for several years, but it is not completed until the end that one regulation on categorization and medical technology in institutions is now foreseen, which is in some way the basis for hospital accreditation, therefore it is only one of the first steps that will in some way crush that first step in categorisation of accreditation. And what was said about education for everyone, so it also allows nurses who are the most numerous in health care that they can also specialize in certain types of jobs. You know that these are especially specific jobs working with a new machine, they're intensive care, they're operating halls. Therefore, there is much work that regular schooling cannot possibly educate these staffs and they must go in such a way as to specialize. Therefore, there is much good in this section that concerns the amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act, and what is important in the Mandatory Health Insurance Act is that the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance actually becomes a single autonomous institution again and has the purpose of being present, the structure of the management of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute is changed, so a new model is being introduced, a congregation with a board of directors elected to call and normal responsibilities for all in the system from the directors to his deputies, assistants and all those with whom the system is networked, therefore to institutions. This is mandatory once again to this business control, so it must function immaculately and what is important is that much is attacked to reduce rights, it simply is not true. The basketball service basically remained in percentage terms, it has been so far. What is new is this supplemental list of medicines that will not go under this supplementary insurance that remains within the Croatian Health Insurance Institute system, so the social component remains. Therefore, there is no danger that patients' rights will be violated because everything in the basic list will be provided with all of the best-quality medicines for the treatment of patients and all diseases, with normal efforts to ensure that the equally valuable medicines that are present with us are lowly represented not even 30% to be in a higher percentage. That's what they're called. A generic who has nothing less to do than the originals. This has been proven, therefore, not by any newspaper of ours, it is done by far richer countries, and just a month ago and Germany, a rich Germany introduced the same rule that the generics are primarily on the list to be paid by their funds. Therefore, there are a lot of good things, and there is repairing that participation in transport 40 kilometers etc., so even better conditions than they were in that old law, the contract is newly negotiated every three years that the huge administrative work and what is already mentioned in the waiting list should not be renewed every year if it is in state institutions a long list of waitings that will be able to pay for checks with private persons. Therefore, much is good in these bill proposals, and I will support the adoption of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70535	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Kyo Butan.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70536	Dr. Bačić rightly found one of the advantages of this new bill and its proposal and said that new health homes on the islands were set up which the law had proposed and we will probably do so as we adopted in the first reading and, of course, he mentioned the decentralised funds that would be used in a certain amount to cover the debt. Of course, I welcome such a decision as one aid to the revitalisation of our islands, to improve the health standards for both the residents and the tourists, but I also ask all the competent and the Ministry of Health and the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance to take up these decisions, i.e. I speak for the Split-Dalmatia County, which was adopted on 3.10.2003 in the unification of all health homes in the single county home of health, which is that these islands have brought with them a certain loss. The loss for the three islands of the health home amounted to 5 million kunas, and the difference between debt and claim was about 3 million kunas. I'm just asking here by welcoming Mr. Minister's decision and welcoming what his colleague said was to take care of the separation so that one part of the scale should not be overloaded with too much weight and the other would remain completely clean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70537	Thank you. Honorable representative Lucia Chikesh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70538	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I support the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act, Mandatory Health Insurance, Voluntary Health Insurance and the Final Proposal of the Health Insurance Act. The proposal for this Law also sets out the harmonisation of Croatian legislation in this area with the legislation of the European Union. Of course, during the course of I respect all those suggestions and remarks that were heard during the first reading of these laws, and all those heard here today during the second reading. I hope they're spoken and I want to believe that they're told in the best way to make the Health Protection Act as good as possible, to be for every citizen of this country as possible, but such a law is very and ideal. Some are very difficult to make. No country made it, so neither will ours. However, when the law is compatible with financial opportunities, it already means one advantage that it is real and can be implemented and implemented. This bill allows the implementation of the latest medical achievements in the healthcare system and we have had this and as we see from this law it is in line with that national strategy that we have recently met in this House. The law also raises greater efficiency and improves the availability and quality of health services. Not to mention, my colleagues told me in front of me what telemedicine means, how much technical progress that is, and how much progress it is in the organisational sense, but also in terms of quality of health care. My colleague has also supported this establishment of an island health home before me and I come from Split-Dalmatia County myself and I am well aware of the functioning of health care that is sometimes not available, and often because of the inability to attend and improve each time is not at the highest level of quality. Not only on islands which are necessary and better protected, but this law provides for protection and greater availability in Dalmatia as well. I believe that this will improve the quality of services and in these areas I support the abandonment of today's primary health care structure and I welcome the establishment of health homes on our islands Brač, Hvar, Vis, Korčula, Cres, Krka, Losinj and Pag. But I am saying, I am very much in favour of the establishment of health homes in Dalmatia, especially in those areas that are further away from the medical center in Split, than the clinical hospital in Split. And that is why Article 2 is changed, Article 2(2) of Article 68, which allows and says that at least one home of health is established in the area of the county, and in the area of the City of Zagreb, three homes of health. In Article 68, paragraph 3 is added, and says that the Health House is required to be founded on the islands that I have listed above, which is certainly a major step in health care in this area, especially if we consider, here is the summer season, and we see how many tourists live during the summer months on these islands. In order to prevent disease and maintain health, Article 22, paragraph 2 which is changing and which now states that each business-qualified person is obliged to take action to preserve and improve his health and avoid all risk factors that endanger life and health, the use of intoxicating drugs, alcohol, tobacco products, risky sexual behaviour and which is added to other medically recognised risk factors. We know well what the number of these risk factors is, and if we expose them for longer or shorter time, how much it leads to an increase and an increase in the pain. I am also pleased with the changes in primary health care which restores the importance of specialists of different profiles and the proposal for this law significantly strengthens primary healthcare as a basic element of integrated care. Indeed, in order for it to be effective, it must rest and be based on educated staff, thus giving priority to high professional preparation, higher school preparation, and extremely high school preparation, and allowing all of them to be continuously perfected. Teamwork is something I always support, and I especially support it when it comes to health care and it is inevitable because it is by teamwork that we achieve the best quality and best outcomes. Article 26 is replaced by the following: Paediatrics are added words on the team with a nurse as well as a gynecologist team with a nurse. The binding trust of children and women to doctors, specialists in this case to pediatricians and gynecologists, in the team with a nurse and medical technician, is a significant step forward and the preservation and improvement of the health of this particularly sensitive population. If we add to this that in the achievement of healthcare, the right of every person to equality is regulated in the overall process of achieving health care, the free choice of doctors, doctors, dentists, health institutions and health services of standardized quality and equal content, then of course we cannot say that this law has often sought to apostrophy these two readings so as not to improve anything and do anything. In fact, it's working, and it's getting better. Quality and organisation are improving, financial control is also improving, and therefore I support the final proposal for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70539	Dear Representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70540	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. Here, let me take a brief look at this package of laws. I can only say at first that I will not support our PGS Club, SBHS, MDS this package of laws. So we presented the reasons a short time ago during the debate in the first reading. A colleague, Ivanis, spoke of it often in public. Only in short, then, to repeat that our position is that these proposed laws will not be resolved, will not solve the basic problems in our health care until the end, and this is the unresolved financing of the health system itself. It is also our basic observation that these remarks go not so much because of the well-being of our patients but more because of some instructions and instructions that we receive outside of Croatia, and as an example of this, what happened at a consultation a few days ago, the media say in Motovun where an IMF representative suggested that we do so. I therefore advise the Croatian Government and us in Croatia, so I will quote it "If you want to spend more on health, risk economic sustainability in Croatia.". So, health care is in direct correlation with our economics, which I don't think should be tied to, but that the quality of health care must be at first, and therefore at the cost that we are giving more to that health care. The second reason why I cannot support these laws is, in fact, the proposed legislation is the concept of so that the costs of these laws are transferred from one side to the citizens by introducing different participations and also by transferring costs to the county. And that's where I'd like to present the amendments that I've therefore proposed to the Health Protection Act. In fact, these amendments go in that direction to prevent the government from imposing an obligation on the counties to be counties and to cover the losses of health institutions that are the founder. Therefore, it is Article 3 and is also related to Article 2 where it proposes that these debts be remedied by the State because the state is so far, i.e. So far, the state has been setting up conditions under which county and other hospitals will operate and operate, and I primarily think about business restrictions. These limits were often unrealistic so that the losses generated from month to month and often happened that the very hospitals most rationally behaved that such hospitals had the highest debts and, as an example, could provide an example of our county hospital in Međimurje, in which the debt of nearly 40 million kuna accumulated, although it was certainly the highest quality in Croatia, and certainly reached some standards in business that are valid in the European Union. But unfortunately, they were setting her lower limits so that she was all the time in loss. This solution will, in my opinion, generate problems in the functioning and financing of the health system. In fact, if the law therefore lays down as a legal obligation that the counties must resolve losses, the hospital will be a matter of how these counties will function. The debts of county hospitals are somewhere seem to me to be about 800 million kuna and the total budgets in 2005 of all counties in the Republic of Croatia are somewhere around a billion and 700 million kuna. So, if the counties were to settle these debts, I'm afraid many of them would be blocked because they wouldn't have money, funds for others or all the other investments and work. So such a blocked county would still not be able to finance between the rest and the health system because we see that it opens up the possibility that investment maintenance funds would therefore be able to repay debts. So I think that that circle would then be closed and we'd come back to the beginning, so we'd come back to the beginning where the financing of the health system would be compromised because whoever legally has a duty under this new law wouldn't be able to do it. I think it should change that in any case, for the state to take on these debts, but on the other hand, we as a regional party have a different concept of the health system itself. We advocate to organise a health system on regional grounds, so that the regions are now the counties themselves organise their own health system and at the same time finance it themselves but that it would be normal to make a redistribution of the guarantee funds. Here, we could say a sentence that we've been listening to for the past few weeks or months most often in this House, but unfortunately none of this is happening. So let me remind you that during the last government, it was going into decentralisation. Therefore, if the counties had been given certain powers in terms of investment maintenance but were also decentralised, the funds were put down so that these obligations could be implemented. So, with this amendment, I'm trying to change the intensity of this law which is very important and which, if adopted, will have very serious consequences for the work and business of the county. Just for a little while further on another amendment, it is the Proposal for a Law on Obligation of Health Insurance. It's about the right to return travel expenses. We know that exactly a year ago, there was a change in this same law where a 100-mile limit was introduced. From the beginning, we have warned that some part of a particular group of patients, the user, will have major problems in achieving these rights because they simply are not able to financially make several times a week or a month hence, pay the way to allow their child to go to certain treatments. This law corrects it, therefore, to introduce the novelty to do so, to pay if therapy is conducted within more than 40 kilometers. My proposal is to introduce a lower limit of 30 kilometers, so that as many insured persons as possible would have the right to transport costs, and that would be particularly important for certain groups of insurance companies that have to have a permanent life-long treatment. Well, I'm hoping there might be some kind of change. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70541	Thank you. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70542	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Minister, here's a chimney. In fact, you said this morning as you interpreted certain provisions of this Law that great progress in the preservation of the health system would be the fact that smokers could no longer be members of the administrative councils. Later, some colleagues, speaking of health care, confused the medical and health systems and insurance systems, said that it would be best to speak only to those with a high - level medical training. I agree at this point to be a smoker to take advantage of the last day because after this, the adoption of these laws, that's us who aren't doctors, we won't be able to speak anymore. So I'm like a smoker who doesn't understand the health system at all first I want to say the following. With these four laws, the Croatian Parliament determines for the citizens of this country maybe a dozen principled rights and opportunities and nothing more. Because in these four laws, I have counted exactly 138 times where it says that the way law is achieved, the extent of law, the conditions of achievement, the programme and measures, the safeguard moves, that I do not further quote in the rules adopted by the minister, the acts of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, which are passed by the administrative council and a little government. So we have just been scratched on the surface, and everything else about the insurance company individually or 90% of it will be visible whether we are really implementing the reform conservatively, as counterpart Kramarić said, or if this is really a blow to the rights of the insurance company when these rules, decisions and acts are made and published under these laws. I'm sure those implementing rules will actually be the final move of this health reform. Regrettably, we as Assembly representatives can only predict or indicate the direction in which he will go. So 138 times it says something will be done by implementing regulations. So I wonder why you didn't bring in, bring in the rulebook you as the Minister of Health Insurance and free us from this 2-reading previous discussion of the strategy and all the laws because everything about citizens goes into the rulebook. But let's do something concrete now. This Regulation shall enter into force on the The health insurance law, I always say, provides for a health care contract. So HZZO deals with a hospital, for example, or a health home something. Try to look at these provisions of the minister, and what if one institution that has a contract with HZZO to me as a patient doesn't provide any favors. What can I do as a patient? This was, by the way, the area of one of the regulations of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, which referred to the insurance company as far away as possible under the old law. Here you dropped those provisions in order for the insurance company to have something to do. There's nothing now. And that's the most common case of those long waiting lists. Furthermore, the accounting employer contributes to health insurance contributions but does not make payments. Don't pay your contribution to health insurance. This worker will be left without health care except for the emergency seems to me or even that, without being able to intervene because he does not know that the employer did not pay for it. In the old system, it was clear that the account of the payment of contributions to all the employer's employees was a matter. Any physical, legal person. And it was sanctioned, and sanctions were provided if this guy didn't do it. That's out of the law now. Maybe I didn't find it in the article, so you'll teach me. Article 37 tells us that when the employer receives money from the Ministry of Health, he must pay the worker. And where public interests are concerned, there are deadlines. But there is no time limit within which an employer must pay a worker a fee that is not his, but a worker's fee. When the Croatian Institute forwards money to the employer, there is no time limit within which the employer must give that money to the worker. And it often happens that after six months they don't pay that money that's not an employer but a worker because there's no deadline in the law. Neither in the old nor in this proposal. If it is the obligation of the Bureau to pay the employer within 30 days when this one takes the account to be the employer's obligation to pay, within 30 days, the maximum period shall also be paid to the worker that the insurance provided for the worker and not the employer. In addition, Article 19 speaks about the standards and standards it adopts, for the exercise of the right to compulsory health insurance established by the Administrative Council. Why the Administrative Council? So these standards and norms are one of the most important standards regarding insurance. Why should this not be in the jurisdiction of the congregation but of the Governing Council? If we decentralisation the institution, if we move the state or policy from the management of the institute, colleague Hebrang says step back in that section. I don't know why that would be a step back. But then what's the key that all the other rules practically come from, then I think it should be in the jurisdiction of the assembly, not the board of directors. Article 22 speaks of the payment census. I remind you that this censorship is when these percentages turn into kunas in 1809. So all those whose incomes cross 1809 kunas per month enter into the obligation to pay. Compared to the average salary in Croatia, I find it extremely low. Article 41, Mr. Minister, prescribes how long a worker can be on sick leave. Well, after six months, the doctor has to refer him to the board. And what if the employee employee, the clerk, the commission's processing officer waits longer than 12 months and gets complicated. From health care... The reason went in, to the hospital for treatment after another diagnosis, to experience an accident and to extend 12 months of illness. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's no more right to be sick. And he's waiting on the committee. It's also a problem under the current law that we understand each other. Not just in this proposal. I suggest that these 12 months be extended, and I've given these amendments everything I'm telling you in case you're waiting for the commission's decision. The commission's rightful decision because it's always important. Furthermore, after 12 months, there is no right to compensation for sickness but to receive compensation, not to pay, but to pay for the decision of the Institute. So when a worker spends 12 months in sick leave, he doesn't have the right to pay his salary, but to pay for his decision by the Bureau. Probably a board of directors, or directors, manager, I don't know. We have a provision in this law in which sickness benefits can't be less than 25% of the basics, it's now 831 kuna. Can that fee be less than these 831 kunas? I read the law so it can. So this 25% protection clause applies to only 12 months. And after that, that provision is no longer valid. And to be removed from the dilemma, accept my amendment. It's the basics of the salary account, the salary of the sick. He says it's a working salary, a regular salary. But when a contribution to health insurance is paid as a basis, it's not just a salary, it's all about getting workers and employees, everyone, everyone. Contributions are paid at K15, on Christmas Day, on Easter Day, on severances. And anything that a worker in a working relationship is entitled to under the contract of work and collective contract is paid a health contribution. And that's not what we're counting on right now as the basis of sick leave, it's just regular pay, and he's paid contributions to all the receipts. Therefore, we must be fair, that the basis for the salary calculation during the sick is the basis for which the contribution was paid. Receipts of an unpaid minister. Workers pay contributions not only to salaries, but to receipts, and that is the term used in the Labour and Corporate Contracts Act and in the Tax Law. Furthermore, travel expenses. You've come to your senses, you're lowering to 40 kilometers, okay? Children under 18, transplants and haemodialysis. But the most common users are disabled, disabled people with disabilities who are incapable of living on their own. Especially the disabled. You didn't rule out this right to travel expenses. I also gave that amendment to keep it that way, and moved along with the addition of disabled people who are incapable of living on their own. These are also the most difficult social cases, because sickness, disability, and evil, you know, it never comes alone. With the other amendments, my time has run out, but I urge you to study them carefully, they are well-intentioned to repair the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70543	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70544	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Lately, here we have often discussed health care and the problems that burden him. Much has been said and we all agreed that health reform is necessary to stabilise the entire system. Because, as the proposal puts it, in the light of this bill, an irrational organisation of health care, poor cost control, as well as a long-standing uncontrollable growth in health care consumption brought the overall health costs to the top limit that could be borne by the state budget and the Croatian economy, which today alone is burdened with a number of problems. Therefore, it is clear to all that a comprehensive and profound reform of health funding is necessary and necessary. It is equally indisputable that no reform procedure is easy or popular, especially when it comes to reform procedures in the health system because we are on health and all that is related to health is equally sensitive. As a result, no government can be expected to go into serious health reforms in the second half of its mandate. This too cannot be called a comprehensive and profound reform of the health care system. I'd rather say that what we're offered is actually an attempt at a partial solution to the accumulated health problems. I'm afraid for the permanent stabilisation of the entire health system, it takes a lot more than this, I'd call them fire measures, and that's what it takes as soon as possible. Even so, the minister himself said that these are actually small steps and that we want to get to the desired goal in small steps. But I only wonder if, given the current state of health, we have enough time to take such small steps to the goal we set for ourselves at the end and in the health development strategy itself. One of the newspapers proposed in Article 25 The final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act is the possibility of establishing at least one health home in the area of the county, i.e. at least three health homes in the City of Zagreb, and on the islands not to list them because we have already heard them many times today, it is proposed to establish a compulsory home of health. The proposed Article 25 does not make it clear who will decide how many health homes we will have in a particular county. On the basis of which criteria and indicators are to be taken, those decisions are to be taken. The question then arises as to what will happen to those counties where existing health homes have not been merged into a single institution, whether such a situation will be maintained in these counties or now that this law has entered into force, the process of bringing together health homes and these counties. These are all questions that this bill does not provide answers. I do not know what kind of procedure for the merger of homes of health has been carried out in other counties in which the process was carried out, but in the Split-Dalmatia County this extremely important decision has not been taken by the County Assembly but by the county headship, and without the prior consent of the representative bodies of those units in whose territory is the home of health which will be covered by the unification, which is contrary to the provisions of the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. The decision was taken with a firm hastily without the need for thorough preparation and consideration of all possible consequences that can arise by such a large procedure so that problems can be resolved or prevented in time. As a result of such an important decision today, we have a county home of health whose functioning is burdened by a number of problems that I have talked about on many occasions, so I do not want to repeat them. I am saying all of this because I would point out possible problems that may arise if it is not clearly determined who is to decide on the number of health homes in the area of a particular county and on the basis of which indicators and criteria these decisions will be made. I believe that the decision-making process should include cities in whose areas are health homes or institutions of the county home of health so that their thinking and needs of residents living in these areas can be respected. In this way, it would allow units of local self-government to actively participate in the creation of such a health policy in their area, which would be as suitable as possible for the needs of the citizens themselves, not for cities and municipalities to be like so far only passive observers who no one asks anything. I would remind us here of the fact that, in my opinion, is very important, which is that one part of the health care home is built by self-sufficient citizens who gave up part of their income so that they can get as good and quality health care as possible. Article 6 states, among other things, that in the achievement of healthcare, every person in accordance with the provision of this law and the regulations of compulsory health insurance is entitled to, and point 1 says, equality in the overall process of achieving health care and point 3 of the health service of the standardised quality of equal content. How these provisions of Article 6 of the proposed law appear in practice for the Split-Dalmatia County. Let us remember that in the health development strategy recently adopted in the Parliament, it is this county that has been singled out as a county with the weakest territorial availability of hospitals. In the area between Split and Dubrovnik, we have one clinical hospital and a county health home. In this area, some 140 thousand people live at an air distance of more than 40 kilometers to the nearest hospital, so that the majority of the population travels for more than an hour to the first general or clinical hospital, and more than half of that number must travel for two hours or more. If that fact is taken into account, it is quite clear that only in Brac, Hvar and Vis will not contribute too much to improving the availability of quality of health care in Split-Dalmatia County, which is said to be a county covering the territory that is among the largest in Croatia, the area is unevenly covered by islands, coast and part of Zagorje, and it is not negligible and the fact that this is an extremely touristic area. It is therefore necessary to single out not only island health homes but also individual health homes, i.e. county health facilities and land areas, if they have such infrastructure that allows them to develop not only basic health activities but also provide certain services above that standard. That's what he's like. establishment of a home of health in Makarska or Sinj. Only in this way could the availability of healthcare in this area be improved, the quality of medical services would be much better, and pressure would be reduced to the Clinical Hospital in Split, which would ultimately mean more savings. As regards the bodies of health institutions, the relevant amendments to the applicable law relate to the conditions for the appointment of members of boards of directors and the system of the expert council of health institutions. In this context, Article 16 proposes that a high professional be prepared as a condition for the appointment of a member of the Board of Directors of Health, except in the case of a member of the Board of Directors appointed by the Working Council of the Health Institute. I agree with the proposer's opinion that this will create conditions to ensure better quality management of health institutions. I believe that it is high time that such an expert body was actually appointed to take into account only expertise, not political similarity, as it has been most frequently practiced so far. In light of this bill, it is said that the extensive reconstruction and reform of the health system should be based on, inter alia, strengthening primary health care as a basic element of integrated care and establishing effective control over the use of secondary and partial capacities. The fact that primary health care has a major impact on overall health spending should be addressed as it should address the main health needs of citizens. In the Health Development Strategy, too, it is stressed that PZZ should address 70 to 80% of the health needs of citizens, and today the situation is such that the PZZ is literally left to itself through the privatisation and disbanding of health homes, fragmented into a number of small unrelated units, health homes are left without necessary medical and diagnostic equipment and primary health care has literally turned into a prescription service or instructions for polyclinic specialist examinations. The process... that began in 94, broke the concept of so-called "supervised." The printing system and since its introduction to this day have shown many shortcomings. It is obvious, therefore, that the primary health care problem is much more complex and that a set goal for primary healthcare should be addressed by most of the health problems of citizens, and this objective is absolutely justified, will need to be done much more than is offered by the proposed law package. The proposals, certain proposals offered by this package of laws, are good and acceptable, but I am still saying that these are really small steps, and until the goal is achieved, I think we need to go into much deeper and more extensive procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70545	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70546	Thank you very much. I would correct the incorrect quote of a colleague when the minister said these were small steps, and this is not the time for small but large steps. Minister Ljubic tried a major step and urged opposition parties to participate in the creation of the law, they did not respond. It is not his fault that he did not take great steps, but those who did not accept his call, which was very correct and politically wise, but unfortunately without responding. The second is not true, that it is not clear how many homes of health will have one county. This law decentralisations the right of the county to establish as much as it deems necessary. The current law forbade the county to establish as many health homes as it should, so in Split-Dalmatia we only have one county. Sinj lost his home of health, Makarska, I hope that the wise leadership of the Split-Dalmatia County under this law will correct and correct the mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70547	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70548	Thank you very much. Well, here I am replicating exactly what my colleague said about health homes. That's what Professor Hebrang said for a while, but I'd say something again. Health homes as a printing model, he was good at his initial settings to be home to health protection, therefore based exclusively on primary health care. However, this model hypertrophed into something that apparently the printer himself didn't plan to be. He's practically turned into some middles into polyclinics. So one hypertrophy of subspecies and specialists so you had the absurdity to say the health home of Split that you were now talking about had eight haematologists, while at the same time the clinical hospital was four. So it was one illogical thing and normally that model as good as it was had to experience certain changes. Thus, the 93-year law had just gone to this model to go into privatisation in a special way through the lease and that health homes would no longer be such a hypertrophysed institution, but it again predicted that the home of health as an institution would remain and that it could not be privatised. So that's the point. And what you're saying is that in this model of the bill of law that why they mention that there must be health homes only on the islands, why it is not ordered to be in Makarska and Sinj or wherever. The fact that it must be on the islands is just emphasized by the need to apply this old law, that there has actually been a collapse of health care on the islands, and that is why it has been ordered to set up there. And as much as there's going to be health care homes in the county, that's an assessment of every county. So, it can be in Makarska, it can be in Sinj, it can be somewhere else if it is estimated that citizens need it. Thus, this Law provides the possibility of establishing more than one home of health, and the old one was just forbidding to adapt to the needs of the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70549	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70550	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So let me start right from this last part of you. In fact, what you're saying, islands and it's clear that islands must have their own homes of health, that's what the law is proposing. However, we also have one absurd that in this budget rebalance, the funds intended to improve the quality of health care on the islands of rebalancing are reduced. What I said was, I set up a dilemma and I wondered who it would be that would decide how many homes of health a particular county would have. So, is it going to be, and that's why I said the mistakes that happened in my opinion in the Split-Dalmatia County so one big decision was made by the County Headship without agreement with local self-government units. That is what I emphasized and set out that example precisely because such mistakes would not be learned, for in the end we are learning from mistakes and it is good to draw good conclusions from these mistakes and not to repeat them again. I believe that this is a very important decision and that this is a very important decision to listen to, in some way, to be made in cooperation with local administration units who know best what their needs are and what, in the end, the opportunities that these units can possibly finance and co-finance. And as for what you said, the printer's home of health is certain that some time requires some changes and adjustments. And the printer himself didn't know what we were going to get. But I also personally think that this model that we now have in our health homes is actually bad because I know what it used to look like a home of health where all doctors actually had their own co-workers. Now it's all turned out, like, each one of them is in their own shell, in their own infirmary, and there's no connection, and I think it's something that actually affects the quality of providing health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70551	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70552	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Well, right about a year ago, somewhere around this time and a little later when we were bringing amendments and additions to the Health Security or Insurance Act, I don't remember exactly. But I do know exactly that at the time we actually introduced so-called. administrative fee. Relieving those provisions on the administrative fee, Mr. Minister said it was only a temporary measure, that the Ministry of Health was preparing a reform and that the reform would resolve and perfect the health system in the Republic of Croatia. Here's exactly after a year we don't have reform today, and we didn't have it when we were bringing a health development strategy, but we have four laws of which three laws are totally unacceptable to me as well as to my club. I think it's very unserious to try to transfer responsibility to opposition clubs that allegedly have not responded to the concept of a health strategy. Well, the ruling structure has won the trust of the people. It is up to the ruling structure to propose a health reform, and of course it is up to the opposition to decide and discuss whether this health reform is in line with the needs of the Croatian people or not. It seems to me that there is one general consensus on the need for reform in the health system, but there is no such reform, and the view of the health system is indeed different, depending on the political option to which individual representatives belong. Every government in every country and Croatia should strive towards a better and stable health system. And we need a stable health care system. We don't have that stable system, and for the stability of the health system, of course, there's an inexplicable assumption of stability, the financial stability of the system. It seems to me that lately it has stopped talking about how in Croatia health services are free of charge and that health services or health care in Croatia are being paid by the state and it is good to stop talking about it because it was simply not true. Because 14 and a half billion per year in the Republic of Croatia is collected from health insurance contributions. It seems to me that it spends about 16 and a half billion, which means 2 billion should be financed from the state budget because it probably refers to the services of that part of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that the state said were freed from payment of contributions or other participations, so to speak. Therefore, the assumption of this financial stability certainly raises the question of the source of funding. We heard in the debates that it tried to impute opposition clubs and representatives of opposition parties, that it probably wants to increase contributions in this way and thus burden the economy of the Republic of Croatia. That's just not true. I believe that the health contribution rate is very high in the Republic of Croatia and that there is no need to increase. However, I still believe that all sources of health care funding in Croatia are not exhausted. Who and how they finance the health system. We said from the contribution, it is financed from the budget of the Republic of Croatia and financed from supplementary insurance. This additional insurance policy actually detimises additional insurance and additional health insurance will continue to pay only those citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are sick and who are more often using health services. I think that system should be designed in a different way. In a way that would be encouraged to provide additional insurance to all citizens so that those citizens who pay their insurance policies don't actually benefit from the treatment of those funds, but that system must be provided. I therefore oppose the increase in the rate of detachment and argue that, in that part too, it is completely untapped as a source of funding. Where is that possible? Well, I think that, finally, our health care should be watched completely in the system of the state itself, the state structure, if you want the economic structure. If we would not allow our salary to be so miserable for the conditions in the Republic of Croatia, if we had prescribed or allowed the payment of higher salaries, then of course there is a possibility and no greater separation at the rate, but simply more funds are allocated. However, as long as the state closes its eyes to the fact that no legal wages are even paid in Croatia, they are divided into two parts. A good part of the employers and I think it's known to everyone, a good part of the employers pays one part of the salary, that's that non-taxable part, legally and on that part pays the contributions. The second part is not reported but is paid by hand and that part is not paid for by contributions. What have we done to introduce this financial discipline so that such things don't happen to us? During the monitoring and rebalancing of this budget, I personally found it very strange that we collected 900 million kuna more taxes, and we collected more taxes, explaining that this comes from the rate of economic growth. So if there was an increase in production so I guess he had to be more employees, so I guess there should have been a bigger salary, so I guess there should have been a bigger separation. Unfortunately, you don't notice that. Furthermore, we have heard on many occasions such recognition, says the positive privatisation of health homes and the positive privatisation of primary health care, let no one take my word for it because I am not a health care worker and in that part I do not know exactly what to say, but I know only one thing, that this privatisation is very good for someone, but there is a part of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are actually inaccessible to health care. Here's what I'm going to paint to make it perfectly clear to you. Generally privatised hospitals are located in municipal headquarters no matter how many of these municipalities have their own settlements. In some other system called the Inhuman System today, we had the fact that in fact every village had an infirmary if not with an office every day or eight hours a day, but it was... with two working days or I don't know about four, two or three hours a day, it was mostly available to every resident in that place. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today it's not like that anymore and I'm always leaving my sausage wondering how my 95-year-old grandmother Mara whose sons are in Germany, who has neither a car nor can drive a car, nor is she capable, how will she get to a doctor? How the doctor will get to the doctor, and we will assure the political inexperiences that these laws remain the same, but these health rights remain increasingly inaccessible to a growing number of our citizens and this is not good. As regards the provisions that we have heard here to remove conflicts of interest, it is good that the Ministry of Health has seen today because the very provisions that allowed this conflict of interest were introduced on the basis of amendments and additions to the law in 2004 when we were just pointing out that this was a pure conflict of interest and that it was unacceptable, but it was then that we were convinced that this was very useful, here thank God even though sometimes they see and find good solutions. What I would still like to talk about is the Health Safety Act at work, and that is, in my opinion, the only positive law in this package of laws. However, this Law does not represent any revolutionary coup, this Law is simply a resuscitation of what we had until the 1990s. years and after that, for reasons unknown to me has been abolished. However, let us not think that by adopting this Law that we have put our workers in better working conditions, that we have provided them with better working conditions. That's just not true. We just set up a health system, and we didn't do anything to allow these workers to use the rights that come from this Law. We simply need this to be clear that today the worker must not use sick leave, especially not to say that he has suffered a work injury or that he is working in health... conditions because such a worker becomes undesirable and such a worker gets fired. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, with these three laws that I am absolutely against and which I will not accept, this Law on Health Care at Work I will accept and support with the emphasis that it must be followed by a whole series of normative acts in order for this law to be effective otherwise does not mean anything to itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70553	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70554	Thank you very much. So I have to correct the inaccuracies of my colleague that by privatizing primary health care, she has become inaccessible. That's just not true. The ownership of the office has nothing to do with the availability of health care. If one office that was privatized in the city remained available, which had become inaccessible in the village because it was not privatized, then the home of health, and that is why we left it, had to establish its own office there, regardless of two or three times a week, came to them by a doctor. So it's not privatisation, it's local leadership that didn't recognize it. In Germany there is no primary health care, all are private and well functioning. So it has nothing to do with the ability of the local administration. It is also not true that the contributions to this budget rebalancing have not increased as the tax revenues have increased, and the revenues from the health insurance contribution have increased by 6 and a half percent for the first five months. So, and that wasn't exactly a quote. And it's finally incorrect that we had this kind of worker protection until 1990. We didn't have it, it wasn't good because the job insurance got completely intertwined, mixed up with basic insurance, turned into one another, and that's why we changed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70555	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70556	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here I was just about to fix what my colleague Hebrang had already corrected, but I would say again that not now with the privatisation process, it doesn't seem that the offices are now just community centers and that that's why jurisdiction is safe and home to health, but also local self-government. It is also said that these laws, that we had such health care protection at work before and before the '90s. the year that absolutely isn't true. Before '90. We've had as much as we've had so far to... Health care contracted with the employer, and now the fund is projected which is a very positive shift. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70557	Replica, the esteemed representative of Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70558	Thank you very much. Well, since a lot of things my colleague Lalic said that I have to explain more widely. What I agree with her is that we need a stable health system. This is true and all that is done is because this system is stable and that it does what citizens and patients expect it to do, and that it is stable regardless of all the financial difficulties that we all know speak figures. The only health care system is that all needs of the citizens so the patient solves almost 100%. Anything less than 1% of our patients must go to seek help beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia. I've said it a few times already, and I think that's what everyone who works in health must be proud of. The second is when you mentioned contributions to actually ordering employers to raise salaries, and then there would be more money and a percentage of contributions and health care. But you forget one thing no longer has an agreed economy, we can't order anything from anyone. It is now a market economy and wages are determined by another criterion. However, I would return to that very contribution and to the sources of income. There was one thing that happened in 2002 when a decision by the former government made by the Croatian Institute entered the Treasury, and that is what I have said several times that it was a health system harbinger. Why do I say that? We're talking about contributions and they've grown. Health incomes are also contributions and what the budget gives and taxes etc., but once that money enters the treasury, it loses its meaning more. It is the budget that determines how much of the common register each sector, every activity in the country will get, and so will health care. So, regardless of whether the contributions are so much and the budget is how much we finally get from the Treasury, we get a certain number and we have to act like all the users of the state budget. We are therefore now trying to restore autonomy to the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance as an obligation to service practically all the services that health care will provide to citizens and to have its autonomy. So, that's something new, basically going back to what we had before we entered the treasury. And what Professor Hebrang has already righted, in fact, is that by privatising the health homes that there has been an inaccessibility of certain categories of citizens, it is simply not true. In fact, this privatisation through the lease is just something good to preserve the areas that are healthy that you can't go to some other... cafes, shops, etc. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] So, that's already said.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70559	Thank you. Reply to the replica of the respected representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70560	Ma counterpart Bačić, you and I probably agree on a lot, but here we disagree. These laws try to ensure the stability of the health system but they will not succeed. And we're actually getting the realisation of that "pay more you'll get less" and I explained it in my basic debate. I tried to point out that, but it doesn't seem to be quite what it is that because of the administrative fee, we actually have the right to be available, the right to health care that can't be consumed by a large number of citizens. As far as this part is concerned, the privatisation hasn't been disabled. Unfortunately, it is because you've come to the idea that they're privatized hospitals. Doctors who privatized the medical human medicine have located them and placed them only in municipal places. And you and I both know that you have five medical doctors in one hallway of human medicine, but that's why we don't have any hospitals in the settlements of that community. I think that we should go towards providing everyone with access to health care so that they can use this health care service. I don't know, maybe you're in developed areas, but that's where we are. Of the ten places my general actually exists in human medicine only in the municipal city and that doesn't need to be our goal. It should be our goal to make healthcare available to as many citizens as possible because it is a predetermined understanding of every citizen, but as many citizens as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70561	The Honorable Vice-President of the House Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70562	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues! If any reform was on the micro, meso or macro level, it was difficult to succeed and it was possible to do so at all if the reality in which we live and around us was not taken into account at all, I would first like to point out. And what is this reality? The reality shows that every year we actually have a deficit of around 2 billion kuna. Secondly, this same reality shows that there are more than 20% of the population in Croatia in the area of poverty. Thirdly, in Croatia, a large number of inhabitants receive more than 60% of their incomes or pay below the average salary of the Republic of Croatia, which does not cover 50% of the average needs of the four-member average family. The fourth thing that is important to see in all of this is when people who are the most in need of health care are the elderly population that our pensioners, more than 70% of them, are making a smaller or average pension of only one thousand eight hundred and twenty kuna. In such a situation, the idea of trying to relieve health insurance in such a way as to ensure, among other things, that part of the income is provided and from the title of participation of citizens in the financing of health care is actually counterproductive in itself for a simple reason because these citizens do not have in the majority of what to pay for it. Therefore, it should be discussed that one of those richer citizens is actually trying to secure one part of the additional revenue from the title of taxation of assets and higher incomes rather than from the title of participation, etc. The second thing I would like to do right away in this segment is therefore not just a socio-economic reality that does not take these possible measures because they are not enforceable or better said are not enforceable without dissatisfaction, without protests and other things that follow there is a constitutional and legal aspect. In our Constitution, Article 58 states: “Anyone is guaranteed the right to health care in accordance with the law.". However, we unfortunately introduce such forms of health care in which we put our citizens in an unequal position in relation to certain laws. For example, we have compulsory health insurance, we have supplementary health insurance, we have additional health insurance, we have private health insurance, we're introducing everything now with these laws. We've got an administrative fee, we've got a participation, and we've got a drug charge. Well, colleagues, so it's pretty clear that all citizens aren't really in the same position, that's number two. Number two, only the Mandatory Health Insurance Act and the Voluntary Health Insurance Act have about thirty implementing acts which regulates decisions that actually regulate the conditions, criteria and methods of achieving health insurance and, in that respect, it is no secret, it writes in these laws itself, and for example I will just read some; the Standards and Standards of Health Insurance Rights and the Basic Health Insurance. Well, colleagues aren't about any rule. It is a regulation that lays down the conditions and criteria of health care. So what you need is the law. These standards are in the rules and decisions, not in the law. But that is then in relation to the constitutional-legal formulation that according to the law should be ensured is not, and in this respect our laws are imperfect and incomplete and they should be elaborated differently. The fourth group of questions I want to ask here is actually a matter of criteria, you know. We can go from assuming that and go in accordance with Article 15 and Article 16 when complete medications based on health, compulsory health insurance, when 85, when 75, when 70, when%? But it is unimaginable that when a social criterion is taken on how to actually mitigate the consequences for the socially sensitive that, in Article 22, I quote: "The insured persons referred to in Article 21(4), item 4 of this Act are exempt from paying the surcharge if their total income in the previous calendar year is shown by a member of the family on a monthly basis not greater than 45.59 budget bases." And the budget base is less than the average salary in the Republic of Croatia, and the average salary in the Republic of Croatia does not meet even 40% of the needs of the average family in the Republic of Croatia. So what are the criteria? Be careful, we put extra burden on the poor girl with some kind of giving and bring him into a dilemma whether he will separate for treatment or set aside for nutrition and for normal needs of life. Of course, in such a situation, it will generally delay the need for treatment, and it will all become more difficult forms of disease, and then, of course, more difficult treatment, which will lead to these issues that will actually cause major problems. It is particularly interesting to further mention these questions, I expected that this administrative fee would finally be abolished. Because it really doesn't make sense, even in the end line if it was already wanted, then that administrative fee should have been settled on the question that through that drug charge, but provided that those who can and not like this pay it, with a criterion like this, we also have to link those who can't pay for it. Why the administrative fee? Because it is a burden for administration in medical practice and practically technical staff, medical staff and doctors themselves spend more time on administrative fees than on the treatment of this and get paid as if they are treating a patient. It is particularly interesting to note that extras among other things are released, of course, by voluntary blood donors who have given 35 times the giving of men, 25 times the wife. But it's very interesting that we have another variant of which, of course, the people who gave blood 15 times the women, and 25 give the men and then they get an extra 5% for the reduction. So watch out for someone who gave 25 times the blood he gave 10 liters of blood almost. Now, if we say so, I'm just asking is there anyone who's a blood donor among other organ donors? Is the blood an organ? I'm not a medical expert, but if organ donors are freed from participation, now the question is, and why shouldn't those who give blood? Of course, I don't think that's what every blood donor who's given once, two, three times, ten times, but someone who's given more than 25 times and who's more than twice practically given blood that can restore complete blood in the human organism I think it deserves to be that kind of participation completely downloaded and in this respect, of course, for women, for, I'm willing to stay these 15, 15 times. I also have to say that one part of these questions, of course, I commend when it comes to children or young people up to 18 years old who are finally here, will not pay for participations related to going to treatment from the distance from the place of residence. However, there is one thing that I am quite interested in with regard to our population policy, and that is the question when children receive up to 7 years of age and up to 12 working days, and so on and beyond 30 working days of sick leave parents and so on. I think here we should make sure that actually children who are up to 7 years old, parents when it comes to their treatment shouldn't be time-limited. They would have to get sick with complete, complete compensation during working relationships if we wanted to ensure not only a population-qualified policy but also valid child care, which according to the Constitution is a special category. We cannot limit here to 30 days because it can always be about the nature and nature of such diseases which, of course, require a longer, longer period of time to ensure quality treatment. That's why I think that question should be discussed in particular. It is also a very interesting solution that is introduced in the Mandatory Health Insurance Act and refers to a joint household or household that says this: it is a community of life, commitment and spending of the income achieved in the family. So not the family. I'm stressing this isn't about family. This is about family, people who live together and the criteria of life, innovation and spending. Says the law. I'm warning you that the rules governing this matter are back to the family. The question is, what are we going to apply? In practice, the institution usually applies its rules and decisions, not the law itself. And therefore, it should be agreed that the same thing, the same things, should be properly resolved. It's quite interesting, too, and this is a question for an insurance who stops working during the duration of his stay. First, only in exceptional cases, the insurance company, I end up, can stop working during the sick period, which is if the company or company goes bankrupt. Second, how is it possible that, in such a situation, in accordance with Article 43, in a more favourable position, he would be a prisoner than he was, because he has the right to 30, and this one while in custody. I think it should, however, and custody may take more than 30 days if it extends. So I think that question should be resolved a little bit, a little bit more precisely. And that's why I think the Act on Mandatory Health Insurance, the Health Protection Act and the Voluntary Health Insurance Act should not be adopted now. You should possibly open a third reading, and if there's no third reading, I'll vote against them with the fact that I can support the Health Insurance Act for, in the workplace, right? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70563	Thank you. Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70564	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, I must say that like my previous colleague Arlovic, I agree in the full this assessment because when we look at these laws that the government sent us into the procedure, and in a relatively short time, the gap between the first and second readings is truly fascinating in order to respect the remarks of our representatives and professions so that, in addition to this proposal of the Health Insurance and Health Protection Act, it seems to me that we are still going back, especially in the financing of health care in this country. I will immediately begin with yesterday's session of the County Assembly held in Varazdin where, regardless of the adoption of this law, the assembly of the Varazdin County as the Constitution and the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia is an authorised body which may request that the constitutionality of certain articles of the law be assessed. And that is why the Varazdin County is demanding an assessment of the constitutionality of the article to me of the 52nd existing law that is not at all spoken of, but is further increasing the tension towards regional self-government units, that is, towards the counties, which is that the counties again imposes on the coverage of potential losses in health institutions that are even more counties. Countys are founders, however, as the constitutional assessment proposal explains. Unfortunately, the Varazdin County in the area which, just to remind Mr. Minister and colleagues, there is a General Hospital of Varazdin which can also be regional given its capacities, standards which, quality of medical staff and everything else. There are also three general hospitals where between 20% and 30% of people in the Varazdin County are treated, all others from other parts of Croatia, and even the Special Hospital for Plenovnik and the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, it is undeniable that the county as the founder of both general and special hospitals has almost no impact on business, on their business. Because all important parameters on business especially on the cost side determines the centre of state, together with the Ministry of Health and the Croatian Health Insurance Office. Both through legal and sublegal regulations. For example, the Government of the Republic of Croatia decides on health care workers' salaries by concluding collective agreements or annexes with trade unions. This often does not give sufficient limits, i.e. sufficient resources for hospitals to monitor this wage growth policy. To be clear right away, I personally have nothing against wage increases, but then I should provide hospitals in that revenue side that if wages are actually increased and wages are paid not only as basics but for overtime and everything else to grow so much and the resources that go from the state budget, either from the Croatian Health Insurance Office towards them. The central government also prescribes the prices of health services to be paid through HZZO to hospital institutions. For example, between 1999 and 2005, the price increased by 5.25%, while at the same time expenditure on gross wages increased by 34.17%. That is why it seems to me that we have these problems and that most of the county as the founder of health services will not be able to cover with all the rationalities achieved in business will not be able to cover such losses. Unfortunately, I remind you colleagues that we also passed several laws at this session of the Croatian Parliament, such as the Law on elemental disasters where we imposed on regional and local self-government financial obligations, and at the same time we did not provide them with additional financial resources. And that is why I believe that, if it were not, there is a need for an assessment of constitutionality because the counties, cities and municipalities should receive obligations according to their financial opportunities and decentralised resources that exist. Unfortunately, someone in the government doesn't care enough about it. I can also set up, there are contracts, so we have, for example, a hospital in Vinkovci gets patients from the Republic, from Bosnia and Herzegovina as emergencies. After that, a fight must be fought for months. A similar thing is with the hospital in Plenovnik where patients come under an alleged agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The charge usually goes a little harder. And if you create a loss is created in part and due to the inability to collect such funds. I would also ask the minister to explain to us when we talk about the decentralised assets heading towards the county. For example, we have the allocation of funds for decentralised functions in health based on the criterion of 80% share of the number of insured persons in certain counties in which, for example, the Varazdin County gets by the insurance company around 78 kuna, for example, Međimurska 81 kuna, Bjelovarska-Bilogorska 103 kuna, and for example Sibenik-Kninska 102 kuna. We should have clear criteria on the basis of which such money is obtained. Because we see here that we don't have the same criteria, we don't get and they don't blend into all of the county's equal amounts of money. How, then, the county will take quality care and care of its hospitals. The second thing is that the Varazdin County from its assets had remained, invested and wanted the standard of health above. However, it works at the heart of the development of its county. The distribution of funds for decentralised functions based on the 5% percentage of agreed beds in certain counties. For example, Varazdin County is probably due to the existence of these special hospitals getting 584 kuna incomplete. For example, Međimurska thousand 550, Bjelovarsko-Bilogorska thousand 928 kuna, and Sibenik-Kninska thousand 858. That we can't say that we're moaning here and Krapina-Zagorska means again the constituency I come from, that's, she gets 938 kunas about. I'd like to hear the reasons, the arguments for that sort of thing. And until we have clear criteria, we won't be able to tell why the health care is stagnating. On the other side of last year, according to those famous amendments to the July Health Protection Act also approximately a year ago, it was precisely that the one, mileage paid for the cost of going to treatment, was reduced. So it came a hundred miles away. Now that's going 40 kilometers in this bill of law. I have to tell you that in the last six months I have data for the Varazdin County area that children with special needs, or children with developmental difficulties, for example I will say a few names and names. It is the last three months and the first three months of this year, such as David Copak, that his family was to be set aside for transport to the Varazdin spas of about 6 thousand 480 kuna. We're talking about the social state and the constitutional category that we have in this country. If we go from these 40 kilometers to Mr. Minister in Varazdin County 90 percent of the citizens will not be able to receive refund costs if they go to the Varazdin spas either at the General Hospital or at any special hospital in Varazdin County. What kind of social state are we talking about? And most often children with disabilities with cerebral palsy are very often and socially endangered families, not to mention disabled people over 18 who are no longer cared for. When I said that I was absolutely sure to support some measures and in the current law, the homes of health were to be rounded up. Now let's take a step back, and I also asked in my first reading to tell us in which way and what are the criteria if in any county for political or other reasons they want to disband health homes that are unique. However, we must have criteria in which these laws are insufficient or not speaking at all. And finally, when I said that I was in favour of this final proposal of the Health Insurance Act for Health at Work, I have to say that so far the law has not been bad, but there has been a lack of a work protection committee. I ask you, both yourself and colleagues, Mr. Minister why inspections don't do their job, why no companies are controlled, and why there are no working protection committees there. Why not run prevention programs. I agree without prevention, with the prevention and prevention program checks and everything else, we will have a much better quality health care, and we will have less costs. Doctors of general medicine complain that according to current regulations, it seems to me that only people over 50 who have not been with a doctor for six months must be invited to check. But they're not responding. We should also have some likely and criminal provisions for those who do not respond to such reviews precisely because, as is said in the name of the SDP club, the first three laws will certainly not get my vote, for this fourth health protection at work, will get my support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70565	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70566	Thank you very much. Well, here's a colleague of the Koreans who listed a few inaccuracies, and I'll try to make at least two right. He said that this is a step backwards when it comes to funding and that it is actually impossible for the county to impose some obligation that is not constitutional even. I'd just remind you that's not true. Nothing is imposed but merely opening up the possibility that costs can be covered. There's an open possibility. So the old law wouldn't allow it at all. And secondly, you said that these patients from Bosnia and Herzegovina who come to some hospitals like Vinkovci, Klenovnik, etc. That they don't know how to charge, that it's not settled. It's settled. Last year too, there is a special item in the Croatian Institute's budget for the treatment of citizens from Bosnia and Herzegovina according to certain criteria, certain diagnosiss, etc. So it's regulated, and there's no problem with that. ... Well, he's late! [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70567	HDZ Club, a 5-minute debate, a respected representative and vice president Darko Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70568	Dear Mr. President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. So here in 20 days we've been listening to the problem for the third time I'll say so, the health system in the Republic of Croatia, and I agree with those and of course with representative Hebrang, who spoke on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community that this is not a major reform, that is, I will call it a mini reform. Why is this not a real big reform, said Professor Hebrang of this place? Indeed we have called, for the last time as a doctor, I have called for us to rise above the narrow political interests and that we all talk together and propose to the government of the Republic of Croatia any changes that would go towards improving these laws, but we have indeed not come across a positive answer. Someone mentioned here today that when everything is as good in health as the Croatian Democratic Community club or representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community says, we share that satisfaction, but we are not fully satisfied with it. The truth is that in health care, however, in Croatian health care is as good as said by Professor Hebrang, we are 37 among 192 members of the World Health Organization, and by organisation in 32 places, and yet for better movement in the health system, the fact that the lack of income over the expenditures of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute in 2003 was 12%, in 2004 8.5% and in 2006, this lack of income on expenditures was 4.2%. Many here have also talked about the responsibilities of founders, i.e. the responsibility they must share as founders with the potential debts of the health system. I, here I come from the County of Lika-Senjska, was also mayor of social activities, so it seems to me that unlike the club of HSS, it is quite good that part of the decentralised funds of the county, local and regional authorities can also be rerouted to part of the coverage of health care. I remember the Health Protection Act, which was truly absurd in 2000. I was the head of the lady hospital when he said about that law, you can literally rebuild an old car, but you can't buy a new one, so we came into a paradox. You can have a 20-year-old car change all four tires, engine change, but you can't take a new law, you can't take a new car. On the proposal of the Director here are such mistakes in that law corrected. I see that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is now getting proposals that have come from the side of the opposition and that is what I want to stress in particular. But why am I convinced that this health care, that this mini reform will succeed and that it will be a good foundation for that huge reform that must indeed follow, because in health care the rule will cover as long as the blanket is long, and these are good macroeconomic indicators, gross social, gross domestic product in the first quarter of this year is a 6% increase in industrial production of 6.3%. Today, at 32 employees comes a small and medium-sized entrepreneur, up to three years ago there was 64 employees of one entrepreneur and what is very important is over 80% of small and medium-sized enterprises, which is also based on the data on the increase in gross domestic product. Today, more than 80% of these companies are operating positively, operating with profits. So it is the macroeconomic indicators that in fact give us faith that this mini reform and other reforms in greater scope will succeed, and what in no way can they agree on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club to reduce any social rights. Even more specific social rights are increasing, and I will mention so many of the medicines mentioned, I call it A and B. Nowhere in Europe, nowhere in the European Union, healthcare users do not have a literally free list of medicines and on that list of medicines for one particular disease you have 4.5 medicines to choose from. And because of everything said, of course, the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports this small reform with good foundations, macroeconomic indicators that we hope, the next HDZ government will make maximum reform, a major reform of Croatian health.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70569	Thank you. Final review on these four laws, Health and Social Care Minister Neven Ljubicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70570	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm not going to abuse time just so I'd like to look back here on some of the stated findings that I think should actually be disproved. So we're all kind of committed to the decentralisation system in this House, too, but the question is, so who showed it directly. So if we increase our decentralised assets in 2006 linearly by 6.3% on average, I think it's actually saying that for itself, very, very much. However, here are some of our millionaires who were actually, being photographed, who are the great advocates of a fiscal decentralisation are actually political camels. Why? They want certain rights on the one hand, but they run away from obligations. It's a strange beak, here's another remark. So, and I agree absolutely, it doesn't stand and it can't be, they're weird. So such a simple system cannot survive. Why? Whoever has, who wants rights, of course, drags behind them and obligations. I'm glad he's a representative of the Koreans, and now he's gone, and he's actually talking about Varazdin. Here I hope he'll actually get up first in Varazdin because here's his word on the Varazdin Hospital were pleasant to listen to. He's going to stand up in defense of a headmaster who wants to be changed politically. Here, I'm sorry that he's gone and I think we should all get up against one of those shifts because I think it's absolutely wrong. And he'd still look back on the responsibility of the hospital administration. Why do we have to point that out? Why do we want that? Let's remember the 2003 audit results. At that time, there was a Law on Public Procurement, which God was very loose, but no one obeyed that loose law. And in fact, most things were negotiated or negotiated directly by a direct contract. To avoid such things, and that was on the stick, so, the patient himself, on the sharps of the equipment. We want that responsibility back. That responsibility is the key to work in any institution, so of course it is in the hospital. And in the end, let me say, Commissioner Lalić mentioned Grandma Maru, and I think that Grandma Mara one has a nice saying, she says, "The baby Mara for HDZ votes because she's asking for salvation from the opposition." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70571	I'm concluding a debate over these four laws. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act. We have amendments to the table. Minister of Health and Social Welfare, Neven Ljubicic. Amendment 1 to MP Željko Pavlica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70573	The government doesn't accept the amendment. In this respect, the State budget shall cover the losses of all institutions, whether or not the founder of the county or the state is not acceptable because, in accordance with Article 59, Article 59 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law on institutions is clearly prescribed that the founder of the institution is in full and unlimited responsibility for its obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70574	Representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70575	I shall, therefore, remain with my amendment concerning the following amendment to Article 3. County won't be able to bear the cost of repairing losses. I think this should be determined by the state team more than exactly the state i.e. HZZO determined the limits, standards, standards by which these same county hospitals worked and achieved losses. I think it would be correct if now that same state of debt and make peace from its budget. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70576	Please vote. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. With 34 for, 9 abstentions, 67 against didn't get the necessary majority. The second amendment is also the representative of Željko Pavlica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70577	The government also does not accept the amendment. Namely, the explanation is as much as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70578	Representative Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70579	It's a huge burden on the county budgets. About 800 million kunas. The total budgets of all counties in the Republic of Croatia in 2005 were about a billion and 500 million kuna. If, therefore, the application of this law is at risk of these same counties being blocked because they will not have the resources for other activities and will eventually have no funds for investments, maintenance and capital investment in the health system. So this is not how we solve problems, it's just how we put it off. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70580	Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 40 for, 3 abstentions, 66 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Third amendment of the Club of Representatives of the CNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70581	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70582	It becomes an integral part of the law. The fourth representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70583	The government doesn't accept the amendment. Namely, each county, i.e. the County Assembly, makes a decision on the number of health homes leading to interest in the protection of the public health of the county and, of course, specific needs, and I would like to make it clear that we cannot even distinguish urban environments from rural areas, for example. Because I think actually the availability of healthcare must be equal everywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70584	She's a representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70585	Therefore, this formulation of large cities is given not by obligation, but by the possibility of establishing a home of health which would bring this law into line with the amendments and additions to the Law on local self-government, which allows large cities to establish primary healthcare facilities with that explanation that I have given in the amendment itself, and I therefore ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70586	Please vote. Let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 33 for, 5 abstentions, 63 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Five club representatives of HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70587	The government does not accept the amendment, because it will accept the same content. But the nomotechnically spoken amendment of the club of representatives of HSP and representatives of Mrs. Ledic and Mr. Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70588	Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70589	Because it will be consummated through the other two amendments I withdraw.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70590	Amendment 5 withdrawn. Thank you. The sixth club of HSP MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70591	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70592	It becomes an integral part of the law. The seventh representatives of Ruža Lelic and Petra Mlinarić. It's the same one consummated and accepted through the previous one. Eighth Club of Representatives of HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70593	The government doesn't accept it. Namely, the attitude of professional associations and the Croatian medical chamber is very clear and it supports the possibility of renting, therefore privatisation and protection of mental health. So, those units.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70594	Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70595	Well, since this isn't about a very significant problem, I'm withdrawing this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70596	Amendment withdrawn. Ninth Club of HSP Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70597	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70598	It becomes an integral part of the law. The tenth is the same representative of Ruža Lelic and Peter Mlinarić who was accepted through this previous one. Eleven club representatives of HSP.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70599	The government doesn't accept the amendment. In fact, we think that one good part of it is already consumed practically in the existing provisions and is not really clear and does not really see who should have the county proposed this model. In fact, the counties are practically responsible for the conclusion of means and tourist hospitals, i.e. ambulances that are related to an increased number of citizens based on the tourist season.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70600	Representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70601	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70602	Amendment withdrawn. Thank you very much. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that with 75 votes for and 1 abstention, 38 against the proposed law in the text as proposed by the Government together with the amendments adopted. Let's go to the next one, - Final proposal of the Law on General Use Matters, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 523. The proposer of the law is the Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Legislative Affairs, Labour, Social Policy and Health. Minister of Labour and Social Care, Neven Ljubicic. Minister, would you like to further explain the proposal on the Law on General Application Matters? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70988	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Just a little correction, no work, no health care, no social welfare. Dear ladies and gentlemen, here is actually a proposal for a law on general application matters with the Final Bill of Law. As you know, actually, in 2003, the Croatian Parliament passed the Food Act. The latest changes were in 2004 and thus ceased to apply the Health Rightness and Health Control Act over foods and general use items. So the safety of the subject of general application is not currently, therefore, regulated in a satisfactory manner, and that is why it is before you and this legislative proposal that we refer to and want, therefore, to go according to an urgent procedure. What exactly is the purpose of this Law? The aim is to improve the existing system of health control of general use subjects as well as the inspection control itself of production and placing on the market of general use items, and under the concept of this subject of "general use" are, in fact, all materials that come into direct contact with food. Therefore, articles of extensive consumption, i.e. materials of general use as dishes, cutlery, devices and packaging, but also articles of general use such as detergents, cosmetic products, cosmetics with special purpose and children's toys, including products intended for infants, children under 3 years of age to facilitate feeding and suckling. What is important to say is that the legislation in Croatia is fully in line with the legislation of the European Union. It has accepted more than 20 European standards related to ecotoxicological studies and the determination of the biodegradability of the subject matter of general use. By including detergents for the first time. So why is that significant? It's significant for two basic reasons. Not wanting to get into the scale of what the State Inspectorate is doing, this is actually another aspect of control, better put in place the health checks of certain items of general use. When we talk about detergents often we actually see that on detergent labels there are certain ingredients. Do these ingredients really match what's inside is the question of which, of course, should be solved by the State Inspectorate. But whether that composition fits, so, labels, whether it's medically correct, it's going to be controlled by a sanitary inspection right now. And I think it's one commendable double control that's clearly already showing results on some actually points. In particular, it's about toys. Only in the first 4 months of this year 16 contingents of toys have been returned with, therefore, borders. So no import allowed. Why? Because those toys weren't healthy. And that's why we decided to strengthen this law in such a way that we have double control and I don't think we should actually run from it. Of course, special conditions for production have been placed on the market of cosmetic products, cosmetics with special purpose and disinfection and deratiation products in so-called ‘. The domestic use will actually be detailed in so-called sublegal acts. Here, in order not to be longer, I believe it is an extremely significant law and I propose here to the Croatian Parliament that, therefore, accept the adoption of this Act by emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70989	Thank you. Legislative, labour, social policy and health care committees? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. For the HDZ club, respected representative Mirjana Brnadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70990	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen. The proposal for a Law on General Application Cases with the Final Proposal of the HDZ Act will support it. What is being governed by this Law? Therefore, the concept, i.e. the subject matter of general use, is now the Minister and has listed most of them, which health conditions must be met by general application, the conditions for the production and placing on the market of general use items, the control system, the regulation of what is the paper, the systematic laboratory examination for the monitoring of health regularity are regulated, of course the rights, duties and powers of the competent authorities for the control of production, import and traffic of the subject of general use. The aim of this Act is to improve the existing system of health control of the subject-matter of general application as well as the inspection of imports, production and transport of general use items themselves. How is that going to happen? The proposed amendments to the law prescribe the obligation to control the health status of imported items of general use, hence the laboratory examination of each consignment imported which has not been the case so far. The laboratory control of the subject of general use in the first half of 2006 found that 30.4% of samples are incorrect, which is an alarming data, which is more about children's toys, dishes, cutlery, cosmetics, etc., so goods that can directly endanger human health, and reasons for malfunctioning are inadmissible colours, unprocessed sharp edges of children's toys, unpleasant smells due to composition in the product, color release, too high phthalates, use of phthalates where they are not allowed, etc. It is therefore certainly to praise the introduction of a minimum annual sampling programme for the systematic monitoring of the general application of the subject matter, which we at the HDZ Club hold as a measure of the responsibility of the society for the health of our citizens. The resources necessary for the implementation of the systematic monitoring of the general application subject-matter under Article 22 shall be provided by the authority of the State Administration in whose territory the samples are taken and only the correct sample is paid while for an incorrect sample, the cost of analysis shall be borne by the entity from which the sample was taken. We also hold a good solution to the way in which the advertising of accessories for smoking through the tusks, means of public advertising of all forms of advertising in public places, facilities and means of transport, through books, magazines, calendars, clothing items, posters, etc. including the mention of the manufacturer's name, no more "hello from Rovinj". Health supervision of production and placing on the market is very well resolved by the proposal of this Act, which achieves safety for health and raises the quality of products. So other than the adoption of the Food Law, the Law on Health Rightness and Health Control of Foods and Subjects of General Use has ceased to apply and this legislative proposal is harmonised by the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union and the legal acts of the Council of Europe, we are holding in the HDZ Club to establish standards of quality and safety of these subjects in order to ensure a high level of protection of human health. The HDZ Club will vote in favour of the Proposal for a Law on General Application Cases with the Final Proposal for the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70991	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70992	Says Mrs. Advocacy that no more "hi-byes from Rovinj". On the contrary. The next day there will be such greetings even more because this very government guarantees a complete monopoly on the cigarette market, as well as a new law... The team's ownership-legal relations, i.e. those shareholders, will acquire more property in Istria than Emperor Despasian had in the '40s in the '50s. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70993	For the SDP club, respected representative Jagoda Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70994	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. As Mr. Minister said in his address, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Food Act in 2003, and thus it actually ceased to apply the Law on Health Rightness and Health Control of Foods and General Use Objects. It is therefore necessary to adopt a law which will regulate all issues relating to general application matters such as the conditions which, in the case of healthcare, must be met by general application, and the conditions for the production and placing on the market of general use items, the control system, the laboratory examination of the subject matter of general application and the powers of the competent authorities which exercise control over the implementation of the legal provisions in practice. New technologies are developing almost daily at today’s level of technological development and progress. It is therefore necessary to establish such standards of quality and safety of subjects of general use in order to ensure a high level of human health. The proposed law that is before us is exactly what the aim is, i.e. the provisions of the proposed law aim to improve the existing system of health control of the subject of general application in order to protect not only human health, i.e. consumer health, but also to protect the health of our environment, because we must not forget that these objects are directly or indirectly affecting environmental health through human activity. It is not noteworthy that the Republic of Croatia has accepted 20 European standards related to ecotoxicological studies to determine the biodegradability of general use objects including detergents. The proposed law provides, inter alia, the basis for the adoption of the rules as implementing acts, and will therefore be adopted under the proposed law laying down specific conditions for the production and placing on the market of cosmetic products, cosmetics with special purpose and disinfectants. It is important to note that the area of toys and detergents has so far not been regulated by specific regulations, and this Law contains the basis for their adoption. For all things, the SDP club will support the adoption of this Act. I would refer to some of the provisions of the proposed law on general application matters. Article 4 determines for all reasons the subject of general application is considered to be medically invalid. We believe that the proposed Article 4 sets out thoroughly all factors that can affect the health of an object, are not forgotten or natural, toxic substances because we usually forget that even natural ingredients can sometimes endanger human health with their toxicity. All possible causes of a general application’s health malfunction are such as to ensure that certain irregularities of the applicable regulations can be overcome at times and make it easier for an analyst to interpret the results obtained. In fact, the subject-matter of general use covers a wide range of applications, and that implies, as is evident from the very proposal for legislation, the adoption of a whole set of regulations such as the Regulation on the health regularity of materials and objects that come into direct contact with food, the Regulation on the health and safety of toys, then detergents, and wide-use items, etc. The rules sometimes do not provide for all possible situations that may appear in practice as difficult for a person who has carried out the analysis of a particular sample to interpret the results obtained and determine the health correctness or malfunction of a particular sample. Therefore, the draft regulation to be adopted under this law should be made fully accessible in order to maintain as little uncertainty and uncertainty as possible. Speaking of rules, I have to mention another general problem, which is the inertness of our regulations concerning the subject matter of general use or, for example, provisions. In fact, technological developments today are so accelerated that almost daily we have new products, new materials, new ingredients, new additives, and that I am not counting any further. This dynamic is not followed by legal acts. I'm primarily referring to regulations as the implementing acts of some law. They're simply not current and life-threatening enough. That is why, in general, a faster and easier process of changing existing legislation should be considered in order to better respond to the requirements of time and emerging situations. In order to determine the health or malfunction of a sample, a laboratory examination of the final products should be carried out and the raw materials used in the production and the entities producing cosmetics and cosmetic products should be examined for micro-biological purity in production as set out in Article 17. These studies shall be carried out by test and reference laboratories, Article 18. The laboratories shall comply with the conditions laid down in the Regulation adopted by the Minister responsible for Health and shall therefore issue a decision on the authorisation of an institution in order to carry out a laboratory examination. In order to minimise the possibility of adverse incident situations resulting from the placing on the market of medically invalid products, systematic control is required and the health minister shall, on a proposal from the Reference Laboratory, adopt a minimum annual sampling programme as referred to in Article 20. Of course they're asking and costing. The cost of the examination shall be determined by Article 22 and it shall be stated that in the case of incorrect samples, the costs borne by the manufacturer and the costs of systematic monitoring of the general application of the subject matter and the costs of testing the microbiological purity of the carrying of the body of the state administration in which the samples are taken for testing if the samples are correct. The dilemma is now being raised whether the proposed cost-saving of the analyses will be a limiting factor in determining the scope and frequency of the study, thus affecting the safety of consumer health. In fact, we know that the sanitary inspections now carried by health control over the production and placing on the market of objects of general use do not have sufficient means available, so, for example, in tourist areas, they are constantly calcified with the scope of the examination and the number of samples and funds taken and the funds stored for the peak of the tourist season. Here, and the rebalancing of the state budget says the funds planned for the border inspection have already been spent at 116% in the first five months. The same budget rebalancing, however, increases the funds intended for the sanitary inspection by a million and 150 thousand kuna. If that's the trend that will follow in the future, then that's the answer to these dilemmas that I've brought out. If this is not the trend to be followed, then if sanitary inspections are not able to provide sufficient resources and therefore control cannot be done with the dynamics that are necessary to protect consumer health as much as possible, then it should be considered that part of the necessary costs are borne by the manufacturer, as solved in Article 27 for importers. In this article, it reads: "The costs of health supervision and the determination of the health regularity of the subject matter of general application carried out by the importer.". Article 21(4) states: "The result of the sample analysis cannot be refuted if the reference laboratory has been analysed.". We believe that Article 21 should be complemented by saying that in the event of adverse results from the tests carried out by their products in the test laboratory, the manufacturer should be entitled to request additional tests in one of the reference laboratories, and then that finding is actually final and cannot be further refuted. This possibility is not seen in this form of Article 21. The SDP Club considers that the good solution proposed by Article 30, which leaves the competent inspectors with the possibility of orally expressing measures in cases requiring rapid intervention in order to protect consumer health or in certain cases and people's lives. In this way, it will significantly increase the effectiveness of sanitary inspectors in performing sanitary controls on the production and placing on the market of objects of general use and in order to ensure the health regularity of the subject-matter of the general use and thus ensuring that products do not endanger human or environmental health. And finally, we believe that the adoption of this law is necessary and the SDP Club will vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70995	Thank you. Dear Representative Miljenko Doric on behalf of the HNS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70996	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In fact, we agree with Mr. Minister when he pointed out that the aim of the proposed law is to improve the existing system of health control of the subject matter of general application. Namely, it stands on the other page of the opening argument. However, it seems to me that the point of what we should talk about on page 4 is completely open and honest where it stands for a reason, the real reason lies in the European Union's request as a result of a bilateral "skrining" to urgently comply with this law with European rules for certain items of general application, and unfortunately for this we have received a very short deadline. That's why Grandma Mara is very unhappy for two reasons. First because we think there's no reason for the minister to make jokes at the expense of the parliamentary opposition. And secondly, it would be better to focus all of us and also Mr. Minister on this law as an example of how we shouldn't actually work. What does a colleague and colleague pass this law? He makes a promise that one day a competent minister will adopt a rule on the health of materials and objects that come in direct contact with food. He makes a promise that the competent minister will one day adopt a regulation on the health regularity of the items of general spending. He makes a promise that the competent minister will one day adopt a regulation on the health and safety of toys. He's going to adopt a regulation on the health and safety of detergents. That it will adopt a Regulation on specific conditions for the production and placing on the market of general application items. That the minister in charge will one day adopt a regulation on special work clothes and clothing. That the competent minister will adopt a rule on the health regulation of the subject matter of general application. That it will adopt a Regulation on professional workers, rooms and equipment necessary for the examination of the correctness of the subject matter of general application. That it will adopt a Regulation implementing the systematic monitoring of the health validity of the subject matter of general application. That it will adopt a Regulation on imports, import or export temporarily for the purposes of processing, processing or processing of objects of general application. That he would adopt a rule on height and how to pay a fee to cover the costs of supervision. I apologize to my colleagues, I can see they're a little bored but I just wanted to read out everything that stands out as a promise. Nothing concrete, actually. There's nothing concrete about us. Will these rules really see the light of day, when and in what form? I don't think we Parliamentarians in this line of work will ever find out. That's my deep conviction. Therefore, once again, the HNS Club suggests that I do not know which way to try to avoid what might happen to us to agree on a new way of working, when laws are introduced in this way clearly under the pressure of the European Union and when everything intends to be resolved by sublegal acts one day, then it would be good for this Parliament to take on such responsibility one day and to see some proposal for a regulation at the stage of its creation. If it requires a change to the Government Act. If that's what it takes to change our Rules of Procedure. My colleagues and colleagues, let's do it. Let's do it, we do it right the way they do at the end and in that Europe that we keep calling on. Believe in Europe their Committee on European Affairs, i.e. Our Committee on European Integration, the question is do we need to change our name? The question is do we need to change our jurisdiction a little bit? It deals primarily with the implementation of European laws in the Member States of the European Union. And we can take that obligation, too. Therefore, the proposal for a Rules of Procedure, a proposal for a regulation to be referred to the competent professional body, agrees with the competent professional body. We're satisfied. If he disagrees with him, then he clearly attends the plenary session and the debate is under way. But that our professional bodies really finally become professional bodies, that they have the right to understand the proposals of these regulations and that in this way we really take over part of the responsibility for what we expect and these laws need to be resolved. So here's what we're proposing: that we agree with this and similar regulations, and the Presidency of the Parliament can run that initiative, but if it's necessary, one of the clubs can do that, in fact, not to raise their hands in advance for something we don't know what it's going to look like in the finals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70997	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Mirjana Brnadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70998	Thank you very much. A colleague, Doric, said that we MPs in this assembly of parliament will certainly not welcome rules and sublaws to be adopted to regulate the health correctness of the subject of general application. I must correct you, colleague, dear colleague Doric, that there are already many rules for the health regularity of the subject of general application. Some should be completed, some changed according to everything modern technology and modern new, new knowledge, and that you have seen all the subjects of general application, that it is indeed a series of different types of general application and that this cannot be regulated by law but must be regulated by sublaw. So the rules will certainly be passed quickly, they are already done. Some are already finished, working materials and I assure you that before the end of this term, we will have all the rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u70999	The HSS Club is a respected representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71000	Dear Mr. President and Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This is through this afternoon's proposal for a law on general application cases, of course, did not cause a bigger debate. He did not cause controversy, and counterpart Doric may have appeared to have commented on his debate in a sense of indifference. On the contrary. We commented that he opened up a very good and meaningful reason to seriously discuss this bill. Because this proposal for a law on general application matters can only appear to or unless we want to fully engage in a debate about it, we can look dry and we can treat it uninterested. This bill of law can be observed in substance the way that counterpart Doric observed it. It can be strongly supported as supported by some clubs, but it can be a topic or it can be in some way an introduction to a debate about such and similar laws that occur in the Croatian Parliament. Why do I say that? Well, it's simply because the Law on General Use Matters if we read it correctly and if Article 2. ... Let's try to analyze. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we also had one credible analysis of how many about the old items in general use that are spoken of? What do they do in nature in our economic life, in our society? In the family, in the house? What is the value of these relationships we're talking about? Then, if we had such indicators, we would face a very serious debate. We are discussing an object in which there is certainly a reason to talk about large amounts. There are certainly many reasons that should have been written in this bill of law that is spoken of in nature. It's very hard to manage here. You know, when you read the full law, if you can't imagine what the values are spoken of then you can banalize the thing and say well, we're going to get a little bit in line with the European Union directives, we'll clear the rules after the law is passed, we can never get the rules passed before the law comes into force, because that wouldn't be right. But if we knew exactly what it was about then we would certainly try to discuss it a little differently. In fact, a lot of laws go through this House, and we haven't often gotten deep enough into what they mean in nature. You see, there are countries in the European Union who are discussing this subject today with a completely different understanding and have not brought it up so easily. In every society, it accounts for over 17% of total consumption. Over 17% of total consumption refers to the subject of the general application regulated by this law. In Croatia, be assured it is almost 100% from imports. So we're discussing other people's goods. That's the foundation to go. Let's discuss the goods we don't manufacture but import them and then place them on our children, ourselves, the general use and everything that belongs to this law. There are countries in the European Union that have banned gentlemen of goods plastic from the East, which have prescribed by law and regulations that their children, that their family will not be used by this slave. For the reasons that they have in their country an adequate replacement for such goods, an adequate replacement for such goods. And did Croatia make so much of this neoliberal concept that everything that exists on this globe can and must be introduced in Croatia and that it does not set any conditions. Because there's no conditions here, there's no plastic that can't be introduced. There are no plastics that children buy if they buy, so if we buy it again, we'll buy that plastic we have in our shops and markets. This rule does not prohibit any of them. We didn't put any fences, no spares on top of that. Therefore, our fundamental objection to this bill is the same as it will be to all laws. The neoliberal concept on which the concept by which everything has to be imported is designed, and there is no room for home product and home smartness. And there's no place in this way that we have these paths that are deep down, I'm not saying that only this government has put them away, but we're moving with them, it's just not good. Because if that concept doesn't break, then we won't need these laws or these laws, because they're not going to change anything. They'll only say in the normative or technical section that this is better and worse. But there's no such thing as a fundamental and content difference. So this law as well as a lot of them only speaks about how we will and how we use other people's goods, how we will treat them, and reservations and rules will be only in the interest of confirming this and this sort of thing. Therefore, I would like to say and take advantage of the opportunity to say that this concept where we are based our partnership with the European Union adapting to directives and the European Union is not a package and is not a way that suits our citizens. It does not fit this country and this neoliberal concept must be replaced by a concept in which we will participate in the creation and creation and the products to be used and the ways to be used, using domestic materials. The country I was talking about, which is located in the European Union, has been replaced by 60% by plastic and everything related to the subject matter of general use by wood, because it must be used by wood products that the country, and I guess Croatia, too, has to oppose such a concept that it will revive the idea that this should be produced in Croatia, or in a country that wants to position itself in such a way. So this is one of those laws that usually pass without debate in the afternoon. I just wanted to say, on behalf of the HSS Club, that we disagree deeply with these ways in which plastics are legalized today, tomorrow something else. That we do not agree with this concept in which everything that comes from outside the era is in which we do not agree that the European Union directives should be implemented better in Croatia than in those countries that have already entered the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71001	Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71002	A colleague says, which is incorrect, wondering if Croatia has made it into a neoliberal concept. It wasn't her colleague who cut her in such a concept, it was her friend who made her feel that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71003	Thank you very much. Correction, Mrs. Jagoda Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71004	Well, in his debate, he said, among other things, that this law does not say what cannot be imported, which can be imported and what cannot be imported. This law legalizes plastics. In fact, the role of the law is not to answer questions. In fact, this law is one framework on the basis of which sublegal acts are adopted as we have already said a number of rules which, at the end of the law, the minister undertakes to pass them within a year. And these sublegal acts and rules actually need to respond to these very dilemmas that you've been talking about. So they need to determine which norms, which criteria a sample must meet, or product must be in order to be imported and to be healthy according to the regulations of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71005	Thank you. Correction by Ms. Mirjana Brnadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71006	Thank you very much. A colleague Markov said that this law has one neoliberal concept, that all imports are uncontrollable, etc. However, I would warn him of Article 26, which decidedly states that not every shipment can be placed on the market without a solution to a border inspection confirming that it is medically correct. Therefore, the laboratory analysis determines that the consignment is health correct which has not been the case so far and cannot happen to put anything on the market unless it has been established. Also in production, during the production of general use items, internal control was introduced where the conduct of procurement documentation, raw packaging, the implementation of systematic control, the conditions of production and the implementation of systematic control of the finished product was introduced. So it's not liberalism, it's exactly the opposite, it's strict control. I also have to remind you once again that this is not the problem we're talking about for the first time. This was regulated by the Health Rightness Act on Foods and General Use Objects, which has been established by many rules that are still in force and which will be based on this new law, so now only improves itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71007	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71008	The final proposal of the Law on General Application Matters We have two amendments to Jagoda Martic and MPs Mirjana Brnadić. Minister! Amendment of 1st Jagoda Martic to Article 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71009	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71010	It becomes an integral part of the law. And the 2nd Amendment to Rule 21 of the same Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71011	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71012	It becomes an integral part of the law. Thank you. Amendment 1 to MP Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71013	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71014	It's becoming an integral part. Amendment 2 to MP Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71015	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71016	It becomes an integral part of the Law. And Amendment 3 also to MP Mirjana Brnadić?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71017	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71018	It becomes an integral part of the Law. Thank you. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 97 votes for, 3 abstentions and 4 against the proposed amendment, the Law with the amendments accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71019	We move on to - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on State support in agriculture, fisheries and forestry, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 531 Proposer of the Law The Government of the Republic of Croatia, and when establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure for the adoption of this law. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Minister of Agriculture, Forestry, Water Economy Mr. Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71020	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you in short lines to the amendment and addition of this Law on State Support in Agriculture and Fisheries and Forestry. The Law on State support in agriculture, fisheries and forestry was adopted in July 2002 and its amendments and additions from July 2003 and June 2004 constitute the basic legal framework on which the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy continues to carry out operational reforms of agricultural policy. Accessing amendments and additions to the existing law, a thorough debate was held with interested producers, users of support through associations of producers, the binding of individual branches of production from pigs, bulldozers, baby beefs, milkers and other associations representing producers and may say that the starting points in the development of changes and addition of laws in support were: Under one, the adjustment of laws in accordance with the Croatian Government's programme guidelines on the development of agriculture, with an emphasis on further restructuring of agricultural support in order to strengthen the role of livestock. And under two, the gradual alignment of Croatian support with the European Union's policy with respect for budgetary opportunities. The most significant amendments and additions to the law above all, I would like to emphasise the increase in the incentive for wheat from 1.650,00 kuna to 2.250,00 kuna with the intention of gradually leaving the present intervention buying-in mechanism and co-financing of the ransom and the harmonisation of the intervention price mechanism with the European Union. I believe that during these three years or rather two harvests since 2004, we created an assumption that in 2006 we could finally approach this kind of organization and make the question of buying out the price of wheat no longer a political issue but a question between those who produce and those who buy out wheat. Next, I would like to stress that an incentive is being introduced to keep cows so-called. breast-feeding of combined breeds of 1000 kuna. This allows producers who delivered less than 6000 litres of milk in 2005 to achieve incentives for holding cows of combined breeds. The reason is that normally we have to seek to increase production and circulation on one side, but the same weaving in the cattle sector must take care of the need to preserve as many cows as possible because of the creation and acquisition of the rejuvenation of the calves, and here it is usually about the cows of the symental breed and for these reasons to protect them and to continue to remain in production we went on one of these, introducing one of these incentives. The following, an existing incentive to sell domestic torts of 600 kuna is directed to increase the amount of incentives for tow-heroades of domestic origin, which now totals 1.800,00 kuna. An incentive is introduced for a fatted body to produce white meat in the amount of 400,00 kuna per throat. This hero is given the opportunity to pay off incentives both in the delivery and sale of live throats. Incentives for breeding cattle are extended to all animal species and categories. Encouragement for the breeding of female breeding calves and cartilages is abolished, and a re-incentive is introduced for the first and first-born. The incentive system includes shellfish processing, and the production of fish products for which the incentive is already generated is divided into two product groups, depending on the degree and complexity of the processing. Clearer are the rights and obligations of the beneficiary of the support for the already erected vineyards planted by wine cultivers, etc. annual payments harmonising the data of the registers of agricultural holdings and the registers of the producers of grapes and wine, thereby reducing the scope for the unlawful and unintended use of State aid on the one hand and, on the other hand, the introduction of order in the production of grapes and wine. The phasing out of the obligation to include commercial agricultural holdings in the income tax system is abolished depending on the total annual amount of support achieved and the obligation to include all commercial farmers in the system by 1 January 2008. The legal basis for establishing a system of good agriculture and environmental practice is introduced in order to meet the European Union standards on the preservation of human, animal and plant health. The conservation of the environment, animal welfare and the good agricultural and ecological status of agricultural soil, which is in line with the new provisions of the common agricultural policy of the European Union. There are clearer rights and obligations to achieve incentives for organic production during the transitional period in order to avoid future conditions for the achievement of incentives for organic production in the transitional period of certificates or eco-labels. It can only be issued for organic products produced after the expiry of the transitional period under the organic production Act of agricultural and food products and accompanying regulations. And finally let me say that the implementation of this Act does not require additional funding in 2006 but will be implemented by redistributing already approved resources of the State budget within the division of the competent ministry. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on technical assistance and other expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71021	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? Yeah. Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, Mr. Representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71022	Thank you very much, Vice President, Mr. Secretary. At its 42nd session held on 11 July, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry discussed the draft Act amending the Law on State Support in Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry with the Final Proposal of the Law. That proposal was discussed by the Committee as a parent working body. Following the opening statement, the Committee supported the proposal from the Proposer on the implementation of the emergency procedure for the adoption of this Act. In the debate, the Committee supported the adoption of this Act as it covered key amendments and additions relating to further restructuring of agricultural support in order to strengthen the role of livestock and to gradually align with the common agricultural policy of the European Union. However, the debate draws attention to the fact that the model of incentives in agriculture needs to be valorised on the market and therefore the control mechanism for the implementation of it is not satisfactory. It is also thought that this Law encourages a large number of cultures and production, rather than highly specialized in how it is implemented in the world. In further discussion, attention is paid to the need to determine and implement the principle of good agriculture and environmental practice as a condition for the achievement of incentives in plant production. As a lack of the proposed law, some members of the Committee pointed out the fact that this does not encourage any form of integrated agricultural production. On the basis of the debate held, the Committee decided to support the Law most of the votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71023	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the National Minority Club, Ms. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71024	Dear Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. A little over 2 years ago, when the Law on State Support in Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry changed, I expressed my satisfaction that agriculture was finally on the agenda of this House, but at the same time I expressed regret that we remixed the order and changed the Law which is certainly most important, but which makes the last link in the chain. We're doing the same thing today. In 2001, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on Agriculture, which is a fundamental law which prescribes that agricultural policy is implemented under the National Programme for Agriculture, where the short and medium-term objectives, measures, time limits follow and amounts of money to implement agricultural policy measures. What about the Green Report that the government is due to submit to this House by the end of June for the previous year? So far, we should have received 4 reports that would respond to how much we produce, what quality, and how much do domestic needs satisfy and what are we exporting? The year-to-year incentives are growing. Unfortunately, the effect of this monetary growth is counterproductive to the results of production. We have neither achieved much nor sufficient production nor competitive prices. These days, we are witnessing manipulation with the price of buying out wheat. Not only do we change the model of purchase every year, but depending on the time gap until the election we change both prices and incentives. Whether it will be 75 lip per kilogram as guaranteed by the state, 92 lips as achieved last year or more than 1 kuna as requested by farmers' associations, it is not yet known even though the harvest is well under way. At the same time in the European market, it is between 65 and 70 limes per kilogram, which is very good at depicting the inability of domestic agriculture and which, if we do not make a radical turn, will be fatal for Croatian farmers by entering the European Union. The expensive wheat at a high entry price is negatively maintained on the food industry and its competitiveness. While all the countries of the Union are leading a precise price policy especially in the section of agricultural and food products, we already have higher prices of basic products than wheat, milk, meat by almost 15% to 35%. This and such prices have made it impossible for ourselves to go to the European market because at a high price we have closed our way to the market, and we have opened our market wide to imports of non-quality products that cannot find a market in the European Union, and we are coming to us but we are paying them more than they are worth. Are we going to solve the problem by raising incentives for the cultures we have surpluses? Europe gives its farmers 330 euros in incentives per hectare. At our place, if we include oil incentives, they reach 360 to 370 euros. In the 1980s, Croatia worked 1.6 million hectares of land, spent 80 thousand tonnes of oil, and in 2004 we spent twice as much on 800 thousand hectares currently in processing with more modern agricultural machinery that has less consumption. One hundred and sixty thousand tons of precious oil. Correct me, Minister, if I'm lying. The Ministry of Agriculture in the countries of the European Union has precise calculations for each culture from the amount of rent to the consumption of fuel, fertilisers, seeds and protection of funds, and can also be achieved. Each farmer has the data available and he knows at the beginning whether his production fits into norm and whether it is profitable. What is our calculation, and what is our price of wheat production? What are our offerings, and on what basis do we raise incentives per hectare, I ask the Honorable Minister? Is 2 thousand 250 kuna enough, little or too much for a culture that we have in excess, that doesn't have a safe market? Is it 300 euros like the whole of Europe without a clear knowledge of the elements that form the price? Once again, we have a boost in forced pressure, threats, possible blockades, and the ultimate result is our overall incompetence on the market. For incentives we spend nearly 2 billion kunas, I'll say no impact. The state must have a fixed calculation and price policy because otherwise we have a spending of money without purpose and purpose. Without these elements, without the state seriously making a green report that will finally point to the real state of our agriculture and our production, we do not know today what Croatian products are, but I have often emphasized what investments we will invest in, which are recognizable, which we will encourage and possibly export. Are those war products? What kind of products are these? What part of the livestock industry or processing industry has the most chances? What measures are we going to achieve? How to strengthen the market and competitiveness of Croatian products on the domestic and European markets when on the one hand we meet budgetary constraints, on the other hand high food quality standards, but also high expectations regarding the environment and preservation of rural space. One rich America wants to reduce its dependence on import oil by looking for energy alternatives to biodiesel, bioethanol under the motto fuel must be enough for every American like corn and oily tails across the prairie. What about our alternative fuels production and incentives? Why has Croatia, which has a god-given agricultural area so far, done nothing on alternative fuels or better to say yes, it has. It reduced the incentives, thus reducing the surface under the oily tail. What about the soybeans that are not only olives but also protein plants so important in the diet of the population? We leave it at a shameful thousand 650 kuna per hectare even though our incentive creators should know the technology or if nothing else has a precise calculation for the same and based on it and market prices to determine incentives for soybeans. To remind you, the parity of sow wheat was always one to 2.4. The current subsidy system is unsustainable because it does not stimulate more productive producers. The amount of the subsidy per hectare is fixed regardless of the yield. Take, for example, that the European wheat yield is almost 6 tonnes, in Croatia 4 tonnes in good years. When we recalculate it by tone, our incentives are pretty high. Let's look up to neighbouring Austria that promotes a hectare, but it also encourages quantity per hectare. Incentives are different if the manufacturer produces 8 tonnes per hectare of corn, i.e. if they produce 12 tonnes of corn per hectare. With our production and our incentives if we follow the wheat, it's really the most expensive thing in Europe right now, and if we add 2,000 kuna incentives now, I'm afraid we've paid more wheat than the world's known price. I would especially point to Article 7. The law on state incentives, which unfortunately I call the pearl of the former Government, and I will quote paragraph 3: "The maximum annual total volume of one production at national level, where each State support user is paid the full required amount of incentives. The amount of aid to encourage individual production will be reduced in a proportionate manner if the total incentive requirements exceed the maximum quantity.", finished quote. No serious state should allow production to exceed the total volume of individual production, let alone the reduction of incentives during production. Moreover, individual countries are not allowing such products to be placed on the market to penetrate the total production volumes. I guess that's why there's an incentive policy that needs to reroute stimulating policies to cultures that are more necessary and that have a market, not punishing producers with smaller incentives and speculative measures. In addition to the lack of accurate data in production, it is the right to suspect this measure by fraud of the manufacturer. We support the introduction of order into viticulture, and thus harmonize the area on the basis of the registers of agricultural holdings and registers of producers of grapes and wine in order to avoid accidental spending of incentives, but it is high time to establish a wine growing catastre and finally find out for ourselves what the real areas are under the vineyards, 13 thousand, 15 thousand, 50 thousand hectares. We pay too little attention to strengthening support to intensive working cultures. Fruit and vineyarding received an increase in the boost in 2004. What about vegetables and Holticulture, healing plants? Is it possible that a hectare of vegetable production is less than a barley, rye or equal to a tooth that is the most estensive culture? And I go back to the beginning and ask again, when will the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and the Water Economy stop breaking the Agricultural Law because on June 30th, he also expired for a green 2005 report that would finally give a clear picture of the situation in our agriculture? What effects have the measures taken so far led to an increase in production and its competitiveness? What happens to the rural space affected by the depopulation? How is land policy implemented without which there will be no European competitive production? Without those answers, we called this law makeup, buying temporary peace, and postponing the payday for later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71025	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club, Mrs. Representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71026	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with an associate, colleague and colleague. The adoption of amendments and additions to the Law on State support in agriculture, fisheries and forestry and, by an urgent procedure, it is explained by finding an answer to the requirements for changes in the content of nature in accordance with the programme guidelines of the Government which we of course did not see here in the Parliament on the development of agriculture, i.e. the structure of agricultural support in the direction of strengthening livestock, at least as set out in the introduction of this Act. But from the proposed changes and additions there are no announced content changes but they are how we evaluate it in the club mostly technical. I'll back that up with a few examples. For example, Article 1 sets out the return technique for the funds achieved by the basis of incorrect data. Or Article 2 discusses the prolonging of the obligation of rural and agricultural economies to enter the VAT system from 1.7.2007, which was to take place on 1.1.2008, so for a year it is prolonged by the fact that those who achieved the incentive of more than 12 thousand kuna in 2006 have remained in that VAT system because it is registered at the beginning of the year. Or Article 5, where the introduction of the principle of good agricultural and environmental practice is defined by the minister, a general definition which I think the minister will find difficult to prescribe and when we look around us, we see what kind of agro technical measures and technologies we have in agriculture when almost every other parcel has grown into weeds so that you don't even see a culture on that plot. The changes relating to the measures for the payment of incentives in long-term plantations or for breeding breeding animals will be applied since 1.1.2007, thus being defined by transitional provisions. Generally, changes and additions to the emergency procedure are adopted as we in the SDP Club are assessed for increasing the incentive for wheat from one thousand 650 to two thousand 250 kuna and thus the peace of the peasant associations, which are organised every year at the time of harvest, on the agenda of the price and the purchase of the wheat. And this is the government's response this year. In previous years, it was a little different, because let's remember last year a loan was taken that must be secured in the budget this year to return. And whether funds in the state budget will be enough to pay off all incentives in 2006 at this point for the government is less important. This should be said by increasing 600 kuna per hectare of wheat incentivise certain parities in plant production. Let's take a look at the wheat incentive. It's equal to that for olives. My colleague Chuhnil spoke before that, in fact, the value of production but also by offerings, by the parities in yields should actually be determined by prices but also by incentives for individual production. We, with great certainty, can argue that there is not enough resources in the budget for such increased incentives because additional 600 kuna per hectare should actually be provided for the payment of the wheat incentives. According to some estimates, this is about 120 million extra, if we see that in the budget through those redistributions in the rebalancing is additionally secured somewhere around 115 million kunas, but we can also see how the incentives are paid through the answer to the parliamentary question why the full amount of government incentives are not paid out like this. The government stresses that the guarantees for 2005 were insufficient to pay all the productions achieved in the full amount in 2005 and that, in accordance with the legal provisions, maximum incentive quantities were established. But he continues to say that given the pressures, I am a little paraphrasing, which came from the Croatian Peasants' Union and from the Committee of Agricultural Associations held on 17 March 2006, budgetary resources were allocated and all obligations under the right to culture of spring crops and livestock production for annual payments were met and were paid by 14 April 2006. And for cultures to be paid in full by the end of this month, the necessary funds and dynamics of their payment will be determined. Therefore, if this was not enough for 2005 it can be said with great certainty that it will not be enough for 2006 to ensure the full amount. If done for wheat, it will be lacking for other cultures or there will be insufficient funds to pay for those products paid at monthly amounts by the end of the year. In this term, we have little and few discussions about agriculture that is directly or indirectly dependent on about 450 thousand families in Croatia. From year to year, imports of agricultural and food products are increasing and the question arises as to what our agricultural production is. Let's look at it on the statistical data for 2005. Last year, a decline in agricultural gross production of as much as 8.7% was achieved. The biggest submersible here has just plant production and most of all in the family farms where it fell by 13.5% compared to 2004. True, we have an increase in livestock production by 8.9%, which may have been the consequence of these interventions as well. No, no. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay, it's okay. And what should be the objective of support in agriculture? We believe that the aim should be to achieve the desired structure of production, that the aim must be to raise the quality of the product, that the objective and growth of yields, insurance of quantities for self-sufficiency and/or for exports, or to reduce imports and increase exports. And what do we have today? We have a decline in production in the last year, we have a drop in quality of this production, we have a drop in yield, and since we have a wide range of incentives that don't give effect and we don't have enough resources for greater incentives just because our economy isn't in such a position to cover it. And what should we do? It should be done far more than just by giving out incentives and support. It is necessary to affirm and maintain a policy of preserving, raising the credits and arrangements of agricultural land. So for us to edit the land in the budget, we provide a million kunas, to irrigate 16 million kunas, and we say we haven't even got one yet, that we're somewhere in the stage of ideas projects. Regionalisation of agricultural areas and agricultural production should be carried out and support should then be tied up in a way that promotes cultures in the areas of comparative advantages but also in the function of demographic effects. State resources should encourage more investment, investment in equipment, in new technologies. The State should also encourage the organisation of agricultural producers or peasant households, more work in the organisation of the transport of goods, such as the establishment of a stock exchange of agricultural products. It is not normal for Croatia to have no stock exchange of agricultural products as a stimulating large producer of agricultural products, wholesalers, markets and so on. Finally, I would say on 17 May, the government is giving an opinion on the proposal to amend and supplement the same law of the HSS Club and says that this law should not be adopted because the amendments should cover the overall problem of the state aid system, address the problem of harmonising the national state support system with the system in force in the European Union and therefore it is unacceptable to do so. We now have a similar proposal from the government, and then for us at the SDP Club, that law is also not acceptable. We do not believe that, given the scale of the changes, this law did not need to come by emergency procedure, and in such limited changes, and the SDP Club will not vote to accept these amendments and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71027	Thank you. We have one correction, Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71028	I'm correcting the incorrect quote of my colleague Zgrebec, which is that there will be no funds to pay 2 thousand 250 kuna per hectare. There will be colleagues. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day It will be declared that total annual yields in certain cultures have been exceeded, incentives will be reduced, wheat re-designed. The peasant won't get any more lip, but for the wheat, surely what he's promised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71029	Thank you very much. Minister, Mr. Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71030	... just let me in the context of policy-making incentives and support. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I can present more indicators that right through policy-making through incentives and support that there is a certain restructuring in agriculture. But let me now say one very important piece of information that practically looks at everything. The second year in a row we have a significant increase in exports that is significant both in absolute terms and in index terms exceeding imports. We concluded last year with, for the first time, that our deficit curve compared to 2005 went down. This trend continues in 2006 as well. Last year, export coverage was 58%. We are now for the first 5 months where the increase in the exports of the circus is 30%, the increase in imports of some 4 and a half percent and where the reduction in deficits is significant but what is important is that we have reached the coverage of imports by 65 percent. I am convinced that in 2006, in 2006, we will end up with about 66, 67 percent coverage of imports with exports and that in accordance with the trend that is constant that in 2007, we will end up programmingly with export coverage with 75 percent. When it is known that the total coverage of foreign trade in Croatia is somewhere at 48 percent, then these indicators that are taking place in agriculture, I think they're saying enough to themselves how many steps have been made in agriculture. If this results in the consumption of those who go through tourism because we have increased year-on-year, thank God increased tourist offer and increased number of guests and increased consumption and food, then you could rightly say at the end of 2007 when we arrive at 75% coverage of imports by export that we have a fully balanced external trade balance. And that's it. It's impossible to prevent, administratively prevent imports. But it's very important that we have a strong growth, an increase in exports. And that, I say, would not be the speculation of Bosnia and Herzegovina the second year in a row stagniers. The increase in exports to European Union countries is over 70% in the past year and this trend continues in this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71031	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71032	Dear Vice President, Mr. Minister, I agree with those who claim that the Croatian village has never been in a poorer and weaker position than it is today. And as time moves along with all this praise about these exports and so on, I think the position of that village will be worse. Why? Not for the sake of the European Union. The European Union should not be afraid of the Croatian village. Some goods, such as sugar in Croatia, would not even be produced if there was no European Union. This will say that without existence, there would be thousands and thousands of workers who co-opted these large sugars as small farmers, and the state would be left with no EUR 150 million of exports under that basic. If it hadn't been for the European Union, it would have been our broken or bankrupt fishing production or the industry that would have simply failed. So who is responsible for this one disgraceful, I dare say poor, humiliating position of Croatian peasants? So that I don't immediately say government or government, this one, ex and so on, I'm just gonna be critical, so I'm gonna say a peasant with an average possession of 2.8 acres simply can't survive. But it is also responsible for the government or government because it does not allow it to reach land but, in my court, it is on the trail of the minister's resignation that the biggest accomplice is one uncontrolled import of everything and everything, and it came to this, after a complete Croatian food industry was destroyed. But this trend of destroying the food industry, I'm afraid, continues. Next up is the Podravka factory in Umag, which deals with the production of industrial tomatoes. Some wonder what this factory has to do with agricultural support? And I say, "Great." The industrial tomato as I read this Appendix 2 is not in the incentive system. Our amendments, which I ask to be placed on the bench, are headed in that direction to encourage the state through the incentives to promote this production. Why? Domestic producers mainly from the Umag area sell, say, that tomato Podravki for 70 lip per kilogram, and from imports on the other hand such a similar tomatoes can be obtained for 35 limes. Why? Because neighbouring Italy is highly subsidized by this production while Croatia does not. On the other hand, production is uncompetitive and certain business moves are now sending signals that this year could be the end for the Umag farmers. I'm saying, please don't let that happen, gentlemen. The minister says he doesn't. It says here that someone vegetables for industrial processing per hectare is subsidized by 3,000 kuna per hectare. However, it is clear that this is not enough for any survival of farmers involved in this production. And in so much, higher and higher support for industrial tomatoes we also ask for support from everyone in the Croatian Parliament, that 0.35 liaise per kilogram subsidized that production. If they can be subsidized, as set out in this Appendix two, on page 10, wheat, rye, brewing barley, soybeans, other cereals, olives, other industrial plants, feed plants, sugar beet, tobacco with 5 kuna per kilogram, etc. Then I think you should have an industrial tomato. I think we have a duty to do so against those people who live in the area of the city of Umag. The government is dominant on the other hand, owner of the Umag Podravka. What they're going to say is that the government over Podravka has a control package in that factory as well. With one phone call all duebiosis, all the misunderstandings gentlemen can be resolved. The management of that factory, I am now talking about Podravka's company from Mr. Marinca to the Vice-President of the Government of Mr. Polancec, have in their portfolio another 10% of that society and they are clearly with the Government the most responsible that one century-old tradition in that space is not shut down. All of you gentlemen were aware of that saga recently conducted on the route between the Zagreb and TDR tobacco factory. You have all followed and condemned the intention of transferring parts of the machines from Zagreb to Rovinj. And what happened to Mr. Umag? At a factory that's dominated by state property? There, from Umag, machines were transferred no less than to neighbouring Slovenia. I have nothing against Slovenia, but I am now talking about Slovenia as a country in our neighborhood. It means so much about how we encourage imports, how we encourage exports, how much we care about our own to tell jobs, how much we care about our resources, and how much we care about the farmer indirectly and how much we care about them. So I suggest that the state for industrial tomatoes through these incentives on an annual basis isolates the cca. Three million kunas. It is a drop in the sea of Croatian support for which the budget amounts to a billion 812 million kuna. These 3 million kunas or 2 and a half to 3 million kunas per year, which is 0.2% or 2 per cent in total weight of a billion 812 million kuna. So with 3 million kunas you can save tomato producers, but also 80 jobs. I know that one of the most attractive areas probably on the entire Adriatic coast is the one where Podravka's factory is located in Umag. It is clear that I will calm the workers there that the management of these factories will not sell the land to someone else to build, build hotel apartments or I do not know what or business center and then earn 30 or 50 million euros, if that land there is worth 10m euros. No, one as huge as Podravka with very creative minds or people will know how to make a business out of it. And let them build and make money. But the factory should be moved to the neighborhood, meaning in a neighbouring industrial zone in which Umag is willing or the City of Umag to give for nothing, for nothing, for a period of 99 years the country in that industrial zone is ready to communal sub-levels to edit means land, free all city contributions, investment in that factory by Podravka, and all with the aim of producing in that space not shutting down. Which was answered by the Government to me by one of my questions when I asked that this factory in Umag should not be closed, that workers should be left at work and that the exported machines should return. They correspond roughly to the fact that in connection with the chronology surrounding the closure of the Umag plant plant, owned by Podravka from Koprivnica, the Government of the Republic of Croatia points out that closing the tea line is not in any connection with the tomato processing plant. The production lines were not sustainable, they say. This year, Podravka has also concluded cooperative agreements with tomato production cooperatives, and the cooperatives planted about 140 hectares with 4.3 million tomatoes that the note bene is financed by the City of Umag. With all the co-operatives for 2006 the ransom is absolutely guaranteed, the harvest starts on 1 August 2006, the programme based on Tomatoes Podravka certainly wants to have, develop in its range and there is a common interest in defining the future production method based on tomatoes in Istria County, etc., etc. But on the other hand, clearly from management come a very different message. So, in order not to enter into any political struggles, conflicts, conflicts, IDS, HDZ, Umag, Government, etc. now, I would like to say that the most responsible people of this government are, for example, the most responsible people of this government. Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Polancec here in the Parliament promised, and Mr. Hrelja was present, and I am therefore glad that at this moment he entered this hall to be included in the incentive system of this industrial tomatoes, and apparently Mr. Cobankovic has also told the Croatian and Istrian or Umag public the same. And therefore indeed, gentlemen, I ask that through the incentives a clear message be sent to the citizens of Umag and this eighty workers in the Umag Podrava to keep their jobs and to send all the messages to the farmers of the "Podravka" that they will have someone to sell their products to in the future, that they will not have to sell their property, their machines and maybe some of them move back to Italy where many of them were there until 95-96, until they were given three-year leases on five, six or ten acres otherwise found and secured their existence. This is kind of an opportunity for the promises to be fulfilled, and the Istrians would say about how they, like, stick to the horns and the man to the word. And to calm the workers of Umag as well. The Podravka administration guarantees their safety, but it is necessary to guarantee the survival of the factory and their safety in the factory, not in certain activities related to this former production, i.e. "Podravka". It's the only way these farmers can find their bread from producing what they've done so far and only, not only do the best. So this law is what we're asking for to be complemented, that the industrial tomato should be classified in this Appendix 2 and in that direction we've submitted several amendments. And for the end, I'll do it again. In total, a billion and 812 million kunas stand out for incentives in the Republic of Croatia. 3 million kuna, 2.5 million to 3 million kuna for industrial tomatoes is 0.2% or just 2 per cent of this incentive mass let's call it that. This is a small amount that can preserve the production of tomatoes in Umag and which can be preserved I would say these agricultural holdings, or those 80 jobs. The budget of the County of Istria you all know what are the budgets of Croatian counties, is at this time 200 million kuna. Budget of the Republic of Croatia without extra budget funds, Croatian roads, Croatian waters, Croatian highways, Employment Office etc. 95 billion kuna or the budget of the County of Istria is 0.4% of the Republic's budget, and on the other hand, that space participates in the budget of the Republic of Croatia with each nine kuna. I repeat that the County of Istria is ready to include itself in this, the city of Umag is ready to give land, municipally equip that land, give land for 99 years to understand and free ourselves from the "Podravka" of certain contributions so that, without the costs it could collect, it could uninterruptedly and immediately begin. But most importantly, the state owns the Podravka and is therefore dominant and responsible. So many gentlemen outside the IDS club can only say that we will vote in favour of this law on the condition that our amendments are adopted and that it is guaranteed that in the state budget, support will be provided in the form of umak farmers working in industrial tomatoes production at an annual level between 2.5 million kuna and 3 million kuna. I'm glad our export of agricultural goods is growing at a 30% rate, that today it's covered somewhere with 65% import-export. However, I wouldn't be too optimistic if we proceed with the policy of shutting down economic operators who can't even be in export function. All in all, I would look forward to these positive trends, but not on the condition that the closure of Croatian factories, which until yesterday, have been profitable and have ensured not only the centuries-old production of certain products in some space, but the existence of hundreds and hundreds of people, workers of a given space.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71033	Thank you. We have five corrections. The first is Mr. Tomislav Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71034	Your Honor, Mr. President, I would like to correct Mr. Cain's incorrect claim, although he has later been corrected. Vegetables for industrial production are 3 thousand kunas, so tomatoes, industrial tomatoes are in there. But probably from this slalom of "Podravka", Polanceca, County and everything else he can't read. Surely no one here is against that, and no one can claim that these are sufficient incentives for all cultures, but it is certain that every representative for that agricultural production is being helped as much as possible, but the honest situation is as possible, it can be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71035	Correction, Mr. Vladimir Stengl. Hello, turn yourself on.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71036	... for the manufacturers of that tomatoes to be multiplied by 0,35 lip per kilogram. [[Specially enabled.]] 0,35 kuna yes, but 0,35 lipa no. This ministry would love to accept, but you wouldn't be looking forward to it. ... That's what it says here. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71037	Correction, Mr. Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71038	My colleague Cain kept reminding Italy about the problem of food imports. I'm not saying that there are no imports, but with that, it actually protects one another and it's a much more difficult problem, and it's imports across the soft border from BiH. During only 10 days of July last year, almost a third of the annual production of plastics in the Neretva valley was imported from BiH to Croatia through the soft border of the lower Neretva valley. Listen, Mr. Minister, you're extending your hands, but it was your duty to activate an interstate commission that would control the implementation of the border traffic agreement and co-operation with BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71039	Thank you. Mrs. Lelic's correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71040	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, the esteemed representative Cain said that the Croatian village has never been more miserable, which is an absolutely incorrect allegation. That the Croatian village can be better and that it should be better certainly, but I can say responsibly because I encourage myself from that area that the situation in the country is certainly much better and these incentives are going in that direction, and I think that here is what Mr Tadic said, that the problem is actually this uncontrolled imports and I, if I can add, think that the incentives would be more effective if we were by production rather than by hectare.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71041	Thank you. Correction Mr. Kruno Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71042	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I have to correct my colleague Caine, who claims that the peasant in Croatia has never been more embarrassed, miserable and humiliated. Well, I think he was very poor, humiliated, and then when they took his land and made him an associate. Then they sent him to a town where he worked as a worker of the most primitive jobs, unqualified jobs. Of the hundreds and hundreds of thousands of Gustrabiters, most of them were peasants who did very primitive jobs there. So they couldn't even live off the land then. Let's look today, I'll give you an example from the municipality of St. Sunday where breeders, peasants who have cows, milk cows get from the municipality, I think, 2 kunas. From the county, they get, they get for feeling, they get for raising female calves. So whoever wants to have a good life can. He doesn't even need too much land. Thank you. As for, uh, just a little bit, uh, excuse me, factories, plant relocation, so we're a small country. We move factories from Zagreb to Rovinj no one notices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71043	On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71044	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Well, on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club, I want to say something about this law, but let me draw attention at first. Personally, I think it is irresponsible here to extend this debate beyond the proposal for a final aid law. I think we can speak very broadly in this part, but I think it would be correct, and not only correct, but it would be in the spirit of the law that we are discussing the Green Report of all of what the minister said earlier and where he justified what indicators we have, and that we are then prepared in that section to present other data. In this way, I have the impression that I'm not discussing the measure of things, but we're trying to draw attention to certain other things, which I don't think right now is good. I must make it very clear here that I seriously expected this government and the ministry to continue reforms in agriculture. Unfortunately, after three years, I have to realize that it didn't happen. I remember pre-election announcements three years ago and a little more about how the Agricultural Land Act is not good, it's nothing, it's not good at it. It is not in the changes and supplements back this 3 years this government has offered one article to change. We're here today, before us is the State Support Act. My colleague, Zgrebec, pointed out very well that we had in the procedure of the HSS law that the government replied that he was not complete, that he was partial and that the government would come out with a whole, consistent proposal regarding amendments and additions to the law. I must unfortunately conclude neither this is a consistent nor complete State Support Act, and I must say that this State Support Act is disappointing if he is the last thing this government thinks about supporting. What am I saying that for? Three years behind us, time passes quickly, and reforms and certain things in agriculture unfortunately stand. We all know that we are trying to adapt our system and our actions to the European Union because we all swear that we should get there by a certain point. We all know that right now in the European Union support is reduced to simple support so-called. support for the economy. There is no more support in direct payments, no more per hectare, no more per unit of product than just by economy. We all know, there is no warm water that, before that, almost all European Union countries had, before that shift to payment by economy in support, had a different type of support, a transitional period where almost all cultures were evened at the rate of payment. But before that, with reorganisation and regionalisation, with very clear indications of what needs to be produced in a particular region, and then the manufacturer himself should decide what is for the product. I assure you, surely in Slavonia there will be no Mandarin or on the island of wheat. It's very clear how things work out. What do we have here today? I have to say when I read the sentence, and I'll read it here at your place. The key changes and additions concern further restructuring of agricultural support in the direction of strengthening the role of livestock and gradually aligning with the common agricultural policy of the European Union. I mean, this part of "a gradual alignment with the common agricultural policy" has nothing to do with this. It doesn't matter, it's no alignment. That's, here's one I'd say the moment that comes to a law like this that's what it is. I'm free to say bad because it doesn't work systematically, looking into the future, certain things. To strengthen the role of livestock? No, not stronger. He's doing a total imbalance here, and I have to say that if there's going to be an analyst, and if he's going to be able to be able to get the esteemed MPs and this House gets the Green Report back, we're going to be able to clearly compare back for three years how much they got in warfare and how much they got in livestock, so we're going to see the exact data. The kind of sentences he says now we'll get something more in livestock, and we'll raise the wheat by 600 kuna. I must say, that incentive surprised me. Why did he surprise me? No, that's why I'm in favor of having a hectare, and we're going to suggest that on behalf of the HSS Club, we have all the incentives at 2 thousand 650 kuna. But get the wheat out of the whole system, it's really a surprise. So far, we've all, come on, I'll say it like that, who've been doing this whole system before, running clear points. We have, in some ways, three product groups that we encourage in war production. The first group of cattle grains, corn, which we introduced in 2000 and well that we introduced. Good production, increased and increased livestock production in the area. We've got a tooth, we've got a prison. We've got a second piece, a group of the ones with the cereal, the wheat, the wheat, the rye. We have a third group where the olives are. Beyond that, we have the only sugar tail that we know is missing in the future in the European Union, but we want to increase it because it gives good results and we are satisfied because we have restructured the total sugar industry. We have a fantastic export of this product and we all know it's a good move. While you can, why not? Let's keep it that way. Now get out of it only wheat, not touch the rest? I don't know, how are we gonna explain that we did it? I think that's the way, destroying the system would say opening Pandora's box. If you are Mr. Ministers willing to change the system, move to step two, then I can say that I welcome that idea because then it's going to be a second step in the part of almost all the orics being leveled, and family economies, companies, societies, will be defined in that part of what they want and what is most profitable for them to produce, but in this way, we will only make bigger problems, and especially when we don't put all this into the context of what is real. I'll only talk about the law and read what it says here, and here it says about the assessment of the necessary means to enforce the law. The implementation of this Act does not require additional resources in 2006. I mean, every honor, very bravely written, I don't know how you're going to do it, you must be a wizard, I really can't read it, I've been really working really hard today on the rebalancing to help justify this, so let's try to see if there's some kuna coming up with more money, but with these resources and with this 100 million and with what's written here, there's no theoretical chance. Therefore, this increase that we have brought today does not objectively solve the situation. I think it's clear to everyone. Only if we're going to make certain now I'd say things that aren't correct. We cannot say now that the contribution in Croatia should be 6 tonnes. Make it 11 tons and you don't have to spend a dime. You don't need to spend any lip, so let's make it 11 tons, so we can solve everything, but we need to be realistic. If we had 140,000 acres of wheat sown today and yet with 180 policies like that we can talk about this or that we came to 140 and that's where I'd say when we get rid of those supplies that burden us objectively and which are still very expensive we come to some balance regarding the production of wheat and now that balance of 140, 130,000 hectares we have to keep at that level. What's gonna happen to us? So I'm telling you openly, next year we're back at 180 or 200 thousand acres of wheat and back again. The whole story is based on once we've established certain things so that we don't destabilise them with any of the moves. I have to say that this way by determining some great contribution to the reference I don't think we've done anything, we haven't done anything. We're going to have to define certain things, but right now we're solving the whole thing. I've been trying in different ways to calculate, recalculate what to come to this billion and 812 million be satisfactory for this year, but it's not, it's not, and it's a definitive fact, we can and we don't have to agree on it, it's a matter in any case for discussion. What I need not be said is that I am only critical in this part of it I agree that there are always certain changes that are necessary to make in that part, but I think that in this way, when we only technically intervene a little bit, such as that the phasing out of the obligation to involve commercial economies in the income tax system, to transfer it until 1 January 2008, to align that part with the use of funds with Article 6. The law on agriculture, also the part relating to organic production, is not clear to me, I have to read this, I have tried to read the legal basis of the system of good agricultural practice and cross-compliance with the protection of certain things where we are very indefinitely giving authority, very discreetly what is going to happen in that part. Certain things that are related to this, I think that this hero, I think they should be supported, I will have an individual debate in that part, but I assure you, it does not solve the problem of the lack of beef in Croatia. We need to be aware that every day there are almost all fewer dairy cows, our source of bodies, so the raw materials are these dairy cows, very little in that part we have production in the calf system and we don't solve this problem in this way, but I agree that certain things are improving in that part and I think it's good to change them. The whole law, this is what I mentioned at the very beginning is something that is objective, to me disappointing. I must say, I expected this government, you Mr. Minister, to go with the bonds of what is irrefutable. Reforms must be done, sometimes they are not the most popular, sometimes they are not and political I would say welcome, but they provide certain guidance as can be and must be done. Not to say here that without such support and without any development, especially in that part, I'm not listing all those parts of rural development we haven't done anything at all. I think I have to say nothing, because that part is left behind, we so cover the very miserable part of some projects, I don't think it's gotten into new programs, new projects because we're all aware that without such things talking about the Croatian village, about rural development, about rural space is almost two-faced and doesn't bring anything but to mention it, and then after a while it's forgotten and nothing of it. I have to say that I'm amazed at why it's being thrown out, casts out now that, individually, I say, it's being thrown out of the body-growing system, women's bodies and cranes that have been supported by thousands of 500 kunas, and I can see that now it's gone. It would be a good idea that since we've talked a lot about it that the limits of the minimally encouraged quantities that we've explained that none are defined as reality but as certain goals, given that we're already forming certain economies, we know what it's about, we put them on one hectare, in Europe is the same hectare, so that's the basic amount of this, we throw out these three acres, I think they're just stabbing in the eyes, and there's no effect anymore. They had an effect when we talked about it, when we talked about it as a goal where we clearly had courage, I must say I had the courage to enter certain reforms, to say, unfortunately, the fact that agriculture in the future with one hectare is not going to live. Unfortunately, we were right, but those measures that would keep a part of the people in the country, those that would help them, we have failed to do in this time and I must conclude that for these reasons, the Croatian Peasant Party club cannot support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71045	Thank you very much. And now in 19.02, it's time to sign up for ten minutes. He has the word now, Mr Tomislav Tomic, on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71046	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs! Here, first of all, after these discussions, it is clear that the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the adoption of amendments and the addition of the Law on State Support in Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry with the final proposal of the law, and in any event we support and see that this is also the operational implementation of reforms in agriculture, that the role of certain branches in agriculture is strengthened and that it is also not accessible to the European Union, but it is certainly accessible to bring the stories into line in agriculture today, when we plan to bring all the laws with the European Union into line that indeed our and family and legal persons are ready to deal with competition in the European Union and beyond. It is certain that it is to welcome that the rights and obligations of users of state support here are clearly read and the logic is that those users who use support in an illegal way should in any case be determined both to return and deadlines and also penalties for such behaviour. Since 1 January 2008, the logic of the matter is that all conventional agricultural producers should be in the register of agricultural products or in the VAT system. Environmental production and also several years of plantation is more clear, there is no more administration, so in the case of multi-annual plantations, demands are made all year round and commissions mean permanent decisions can be made and it is also welcome to welcome that these incentives in livestock farming, means the emphasis on nursing livestock and cows and bodies for tov and also drowned bodies, incentives for all live cattle and especially in fisheries, and in particular to get one other meaning means nevertheless in a way and better and more for our agricultural producers. Here, I'd look back at the wheat here, I believe there were most words here. I don't know when someone said in recent years that the warlord in Slavonia was the first money in the seventh month since wheat and 2004, so over the past three years this government has in some way secured the wheat market through modality, and in 2004, it appeared as a redeemer along with the millers, the price was 1 kuna. 2005. 0,92 kuna. We gave 10 lips of support to the buyers and in 2006 we brought a price of protection, meaning no market price and we left the price of the market, means that manufacturers with their buyers or processors agree clean and clear and what they will sow and how much they will shine and be safe in the summer when the wheat comes to buy and not to create market surpluses. In 2004, the incentive was a thousand, 200 kuna, in 2005, was a thousand 650, this year the government proposed 2,000, 250 kuna. And however we look at calculations both with kuna and 0.92 and 0.75 we're always going around here about the calculation that the hectare of production means together the average yield, let's take 45 meters plus the incentive is always going on about 5 thousand 700, 5 thousand 800, and I think that calculation is as correct as the maximumist calculation. Let's leave calculations where everything and everything counts, but here we are walking on the ground seeing a lot of wheat that hasn't been protected now lately from the disease. And in a way, three hot days and she turns red. So, in any case, the state is moving away from the wheat market, ensuring that even the producers whether or not together in associations can clearly talk to their buyers in the ninth month, knowing that the safeguard price is 75 means both the sortiment and the quality mentioned here. I must mention here that the quality of Croatian wheat is certainly one of the better quality of wheat in our environment. However, as we found the situation in 2004, we went with the kuna and logic of things that we couldn't compete in our environment so that everyone else got a chance with 0.75, however, it should always be taken into account 0.75 plus all the dependent costs regardless of customs but also on transportation, phyto-sanitary examination etc. Today we create conditions for our producers but also for wheat processors to be competitive both on our market and also for our users, the consumption of this flour certainly has flour here, and I don't think it's one of the bigger things that happens in this law, and it's definitely to be highlighted because the wheat and this government is finally, whether it's going to be a change and a supplement, surely by 2008, the conditions will change both for us and for the European market, that this will still succumb to change. However, we want to create conditions for our producers to be as ready as possible for the European Union. As far as agricultural land is concerned, we all know that it's 2.9 hectares per household, but when we came to spend our lives on agricultural land, then we only saw in the municipalities and cities what it really is in the garland, that our tickets from 1862. Catastran once worked for a thousand nine hundred years, however, many municipalities and cities did not simply match the cadastre and grantovnica. These are the same objective problems that local self-government units were facing in the implementation of the agricultural land distribution programme, and it was very difficult to do so depending on who was trained in local self-government units. The Croatian Democratic Community club will come out with one amendment to Appendix 2 and this is purely about the incentives for honey production. In the current law, the incentive of honey was through the bees of the hive community 90 kuna. We suggest that it should still be per kilogram, to be honey of 4.5 kuna per kilogram because we believe that the model per hive does not have any economic justification and turns out to be one kilogram of honey sure to ensure better market control and suppress the grey economy, ensure price stability on the market, improve intensive beekeeping, encourage the self-employment of young beekeepers and beekeeping, surely that it will be more ready in such a stable market to welcome and enter the European Union. Once again, the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports amendments and additions to the State Support Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71047	Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71048	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So the colleague said incorrectly, he said that by accepting this Law that Croatian peasants are ready to join the European Union. My dear colleague, it's simply not true. The government may be ready, but our peasants are not ready and especially will not be after the adoption of this law. For what are the consequences of accepting this Law? We will get a re-enlarged wheat area and we will get wheat that will not be competitive on either domestic or foreign markets. And we should actually reorient through the incentive policy and create a family economy that will be competitive.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71049	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71050	Thank you very much, Vice President. I wouldn't answer the correction, but I think it's often used by an incorrect quote and it creates a certain confusion, which is that the average, average size of an economy is 2.9 hectares. It's just not true. We know today that it's much bigger. 2.9 is with those gardens, with the small gardens and so on. It's safe today here I can say 7.8 acres definitely and it needs to be avoided from use because sometimes we don't benefit from it. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71051	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed representative, Željko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71052	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In 2001, Croatia also took over a study on the production of a diesel in which the Ministry of Finance must draw up a legal regulation that provides for the release of bio-excise diesel and the Ministry of Agriculture encourages the shine of rape oil with greater incentives. If we know that, according to the European Union's 30, 2003 directive, we have deadlines in 2007 to produce 4% and 45 thousand tonnes of biodiesel in Croatia, and in 2010, 5.75% and 75 thousand tonnes of biodiesel must be produced in Croatia 2020. I wonder how we're going to do that if we know that the only diesel plant in Ozla last year imported 15 thousand tons and its capacity was 20 thousand tons of diesel, and 5 grand bought a ton on the domestic market. We have in the production of another bio-elevator plant that should start working just don't know where they're going to take that oily tail, is there even a chance and a chance if something doesn't change that it's domestic production and that domestic people can make money. The incentives in the European Union are currently 2 000 850 kuna and the formula for calculating this incentive is 1:2.1 in the price of wheat. I think that Croatia must, with its, with this law that is ours today, propose a law on amendments and additions to the State Support Act that support must be a generator of development, direction of production and have a clear strategy of agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia. From this incentive that is before us is visible that we have received in this Law bee community and queen bee for thanking the Ministry of Agriculture and the Minister but it is also visible that we have only gained a hero in the crop of domestic farming, the first phase and the second phase of 1800 kuna which is also visible that we will have problems that we will not achieve what we wanted with this incentive, but we will also make the dairy producers that they will also have to deal with these heroes, which will result in again having nothing to do, that there will be no narrow professionalization, that we will not achieve what we wanted. You need to see what incentives make sense. It is important to direct production with incentives, and also to professionalise i.e. We focus professionally and only in this way can we be competitors in the world market and in Europe. That's why I think this Support Act is about retaining "status quo" and preserving social peace instead of developing generators. The Ministry of Agriculture must finally come up with a clear strategy for agricultural production and run things from a dead end no matter how unpopular. Because this is how Croatian agriculture sinks deeper and deeper and we don't see a way out at this point. Therefore, the HNS cannot support this proposed law because we think that support should be served for a completely different purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71053	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71054	Mr. Vice President, distinguished government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. Namely, I came forward after Mr. Minister in response to what counterpart Chuhnil said he had countless examples or a large number of examples where the incentive policy had produced markedly good results. I have to admit, I don't know so many good examples, but I do know the consequences of such an incentive policy. I come from Rijeka, from a touristic area and I invite Mr. Minister to come to Rijeka, to come to Opatija, to come to Crikvenica and see what is on the shelves of our Croatian shops and what we offer these days to millions of foreign tourists. Where did the origin of that cheese, fruit, vegetables, meat and other products come from? This is the result of this successful incentive policy. Unfortunately, colleagues and colleagues are not just that situation on the Adriatic. I was in Slavonia a few weeks ago, and I would like to expand a little what Mr. Kurt said about the oily tail and the European Union. Namely, a colleague and colleagues 20 years ago in Croatia, about 30,000 hectares were heated with oil tails. Last year, it was lighted up four times smaller surfaces. So the trend is one constant drop in oil rape production. Instead of being the other way around, one steep curve is up. My colleagues and colleagues, in Croatia last year only 5,000 hectares of rape oil were lit. In a compatible, similar Slovakia, the same 5 million inhabitants, roughly the same area, they lit 600 thousand acres, not 5 thousand, but 600 thousand hectares. So they shined 130 times the size of the surface, but what's also important to say is that the crop per hectare in us on average is about 2 tons per hectare, in Slovakia it's 3 tons, in Hungary 3 tons, in Germany as much as 4 tons per hectare. And we are entering the European Union, and this same union requires that much of the clearly fossil fuels are gradually changed, replaced, substituted with biofuels. Clearly the oily tail here is the most interesting, because from it we get the farthest part of the bio diesel. For this reason, a colleague of Kurt’s also well - opened this issue as an example to demonstrate this encouraging policy of ours. So last year we were supposed to replace about 2% of the total use of fossil fuels with biodiesel. In 2010, it should be 5.75%, and in 2020 as much as 20% of the total fuel must be used on the basis of biofuels. I don't know how many colleagues and colleagues you know that at this point Croatia produces about 20 thousand tons of diesel, but it's interesting to know where the oily tail for the operation of these plants comes from. 25% comes from Croatia, and 75% of the rape oil, as many as 75% I repeat and underline comes from imports. Is that necessary? Let's just see what our fields look like. Can't we use them better and more efficiently? I think I certainly do, of course I do. And we're bound to do it. It gives you a good life. In this way to meet clearly one part of our energy needs, meet ecological clear standards because it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is completely biodegradable, etc., etc., etc. Okay. I think there's one part of my exposure that I can do here, namely, I can skip. I would stop here just to show these few examples of where we are today and in which direction we should all make a much greater effort together to make it. Here comes Mr. Minister. I've finished my presentation. I'm sorry he wasn't here. I hope his colleagues will pass on these questions to me and I won't repeat any questions, it's not the level of my conversation here in the Parliament. If Mr. Minister has not found fit to be with us, I agree that he has both physiological and other needs, his colleagues will pass it on to him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71055	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Kurt's.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71056	So I would like to replicate my colleagues as regards the associated members, the 10 countries of the European Union, and otherwise it is a practice in the European Union that by the year 1.7, every country must bring and write a programme of measures that it has done on the matter of diesel. I must warn you that out of the 10 new arrival countries in the European Union 7 they pay them fines because they did not do it well. I am only interested in my colleague Doric what we will do in Croatia when we hope to join the European Union very quickly. If these countries that now have such large production pay the fines, because they haven't done well enough programs that we will do, how many penalties will we pay in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71057	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71058	Namely, I've been making my colleague Kurt clear enough. I said at this point we have a drive that produces about 20,000 tons. I know we have another power plant with approximately the same capacity. And even under ideal conditions for us to complete the third drive, so by 2010, to meet the needs of what is most tragic, we will have to import the oil tail for the purposes of these factories. It's the most tragic part of the story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71059	Replica, the esteemed representative of Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71060	So I'd like to replicate my colleague Doric in the part where he's talking about that, for the purposes of production, we're so little producing oil tails right now that 70% of these raw materials actually need to be invested. I would like to say affirmably to this observation that, by amending the law like this, when we have levelled the wheat incentive with an incentive for olives, the interest in production will be even less, because it needs more technology and more work than it does for wheat. So she's in the production of more expensive, but her placement is insecure despite us not only being us, it's not just about the oily tail, and the other cultures, so both on soy and on sunflower we actually have one processor who often pays off in nature, i.e. in compensations, etc. And that further dims manufacturers to go into this more complicated culture to grow. And in particular, this will happen now if, for example, a direct incentive for wheat as a single culture that requires little work, and with lower yields, you can get and achieve a relatively high price compared to some other products.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71061	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Chuhnil.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71062	I just want to replicate a colleague who says that Croatia has done nothing. Croatia went very well in 2000 when a study on cost-effectiveness of production was made. The advisory service was also on its way to work on the production of rape oil, as the fact that we have oil rape production below 2 tonnes per hectare, that one Czech Republic today has a 5-tonne production target. And our experiments show that it can produce 5 tons, but normally with different technology and with different incentives. Because certainly the embarrassing incentives that were below 2 thousand 50 kuna last year, or paid off somewhere at the wheat level, are certainly not going to increase that production. If we had invested only that part of the refaction done by the former government that we encouraged the export of wheat into the promotion of oil rape production and what we are doing now by reducing incentives and increasing the incentive for wheat Croatia could certainly produce enough oily tails and enough diesel. One Czech Republic today produces over a million tonnes of rape oil, the most profitable culture, there is no problem with the market because let's not forget that one of the biggest customers is Germany, and I'm sure I'm afraid that by increasing this kind of incentive only for wheat once again, we're going to have a big reaction, that my colleague Lončar will talk again about problems of embezzlement, that is, speculation and wheat scandals, instead of now making quality incentives that would give priority to oilers, who can very well find justification through the processing of the diesel, but we make the same mistakes with other renewable resources, at the end of the day read about the bioethanol, moving from Vukovar to the county, etc. And they'll end up based on imported corn again. So the problems are all the way up until we define our policy development in that segment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71063	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71064	Comrade Chuhnil, I fully agree with you. I didn't want to get into the numbers in detail about the incentives, but I hope you agree with me that encouraging policy is only part of the problem. That the lack is also in professional assistance, and not only in financial terms, because regarding these experiments that you mentioned, we all know that it can be relatively easy to reach 3.5, 4 and more tons per hectare and third, that is, the fourth part of the story is the organisation and coordination of the whole business, and that clearly requires a little more clear push by those who are in charge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71065	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71066	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, I'm so glad you're back in the hall, because here I am now going to have a chance to keep my promise, because they told me to tell the Minister how we live. We live a terrible life, and unfortunately here's my debate today based on what I see, what I feel and what those people feel, because we don't have data today, we don't have data for reasons we don't respect the Agriculture Act again, and we don't have a green report that would be based on data, and so we wouldn't be able to improvise how much we import, how much we don't export, how much we increase production, how much we didn't increase production because then we'd have exact data that we could believe and we wouldn't have to believe, but here it's really sad that there are two blocks here, one that says it's not true that it's such a bad situation, and this other block that testifies, but based on life experience, testifys very poor life without orientation exactly that part of people who belong to your ministry. This bill of law, Mr. Minister, is very positive and I appreciate that you have embarked on proposing a bill in agreement with the peasant associations. However, this bill is not definitely a solution to the problem. This bill is only a fire-fighting measure, and now that I'm observing the bill, I can't tell the peasants in the long run how they can plan their production and how they can direct their family economies. There is no lack of agrarian policy problem today. The lack of agrarian policy has been following us since the 1990s when something for war reasons, but also something because of the wrong policy fell with production and came to these branches. So what does this law say? This law increases the incentives for wheat in the short term, and if nothing else were to happen then they would say bravo Vlado you increased the incentives for wheat. However, the separation of wheat from all other cultures is inadmissible and impossible, for these reasons, for which we have just before and replicated. Nor in this way, because according to the Agriculture Act, agricultural policy is drawn up, it is in principle determined in this law and agrarian policy is directed by price policy and incentive policy. The incentive policy and what showed us the positive results and positive shifts here is now going backwards. You tell Mr. Minister to increase those incentives by 650 kuna, and I think that's much bigger, because the villagers say they didn't even get a payment of 1.200,00 kuna, and it's prescribed 1.650,00 kuna. But you say that by increasing your incentives, you solve the purchase of wheat. That's not true, Minister. There were systems like this or they were, but then the incentive was I remember in 1999 when the incentive was 450,00 kuna you know and then the peasants were exposed to the market and the buyers and it was that they had emptied their trailers and they had thrown those trailers into silos, but the money for the dedicated wheat had never been received, or received in the 5th month of 2000, the 4th month of 2000 when it was the coalition government. So we stop the robbery of these peasants, and let's not think that by increasing incentives, we solve the purchase of wheat, because these peasants who are in the education structure and in the age structure are what they are, we expose them to wolves, and let's not be surprised if we have tractors on the roads again because they're going to ask for a payment of the wheat purchase. You remember that, and I can tell you that as a national representative, I felt proud in 2003 when paid wheat was all in 15 days. It's just as important to a peasant when he gets paid, not just when and how much he'll be redeemed. I find it completely unclear why a female breeding calf is excluded from the incentives. This reminds me of the times of quarantine and imports of breeding heifers from various different European countries that ended as they ended and I would be very interested in the register of how many of these heifers there are. So then the veterinarians told us that these are heifers that are in some other climate conditions, that they get used to it here, so they can't stay fat, so it's a great mortality, so this and then we decided to go to the fostering of female breeding calves to have a climate-adjusted throat, experts say I'm not a veterinarian, I don't know, but they say that these breeding heifers are much more quality than imported. And now he's going to ask the bad guy if the reason for shutting down fertilized calves from the incentive system is the result of an import lobby. Are we going to import the heifers because I remember some of the latest reports? In one year in the Republic of Croatia, we raised 14 thousand heifers. In the second year in two years, we had 29 thousand pieces of heifers that seem to have no market. They don't have markets. I wouldn't comment on it right now and explain the reasons why we just have to import the heifers and where it's going. The incentive system is constantly under suspicion of abuse in the use of incentives. There is, Minister, you know that as well as I do, and I advocate that every one who has abused incentives be sanctioned. And here in Article 1, you say "the beneficiary of state aid which has not returned the funds does not exercise the right to pay off the state support set out in this law until the cash liabilities have been settled". Okay, and not only that, but he should be punished more strictly. However, it now confuses the following item: "the beneficiary of state support can submit a new request for the right of state support set by this law after 2 years, counting on the date of finality of the solution which the agricultural inspector orders the user to increase funds". Minister, is that obsolete? After two years, does he have the right to cheat on the state again? He must never cheat on her again. He must never cheat on her again. And if he has abused and if he has not returned, he must never again exercise the right to encourage. Furthermore, you have in Article 5(1) as follows: "the condition for the achievement of the incentive in plant production is the use of declared seed and fruit material", which is okay. Hello. However, teaching: "these apply the principle of good agricultural and environmental practice in order to meet the conditions of human health conservation", etc. And now he says paragraph 2. "the minister is authorised to prescribe the principles of good agricultural and environmental practice." Well, my dear friend, can you explain to me what it is? And I know of some fertility, so I know of others, but for Christ's sake, what is "good agricultural and environmental practices," it really is. But be careful, it can be very dangerous because in order to achieve the incentive, one and the other conditions must be fulfilled cumulatively. Therefore, it also uses declared seed and fruit material, as well as to apply the principles of good agricultural and environmental practice. And now, let's say, Mr. Minister, with this Law after you come some wicked minister who will not have the ear for the people and in accordance with this authority referred to in paragraph 2 is prescribed by such agricultural and environmental practices that no one will actually exercise the right to encourage. Well, here, Mr. Minister, fix this because this is too dangerous. That's what I'm telling you now as a lawyer because if I got this law in my hands and had nothing to do with it, you'd have a lot of work to do, you'd have plenty of space anyway. Furthermore, so, what I said, I won't have time. Mr. Minister, don't get carried away with this law solving problems and introducing peasants into the European Union. Don't introduce them. Please continue the reforms once, try to remove everything that is an obstacle, from rounding up the family economy, from the redesign of production, rebuilding the machinery, etc., and especially the irrigation system. I didn't make it to an industrial vegetable and to a dryer in Vrpolje. Try to remove it, and then the peasant will be ready to join the European Union, and the Government doesn't have to. Who's cutting her hair?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71067	Thank you. The word has a esteemed representative of Ledinsky.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71068	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with his associates. Here are a few words on the proposal for a law on state support in agriculture, fisheries and forestry. First of all, I would say as a forester, and that I have already, I think, once told me about the amendment and the addition of this Law, that it would be good to finally see from these support in this Law at least one that applies to forestry. Because forestry is only here a ficus that stands in this Law, and no support applies to it. What am I saying that for? There's been a lot of talk here today about biodiesel. Bio- diesel is not produced only from oil rape, it is produced from wood. There are technologies that are known in the world. It is also necessary today to increase the incentives that are related to biomass, to the use of renewable energy sources, and this would be an opportunity through this Law. However, no one has ever taken care of it, and here I, as a forester, want to protest first, which has not found a place to encourage shaming, to increase forest surfaces, and precisely because we have recently brought amendments and additions to the Law on Forestry that we have allowed to reduce the areas under the forests that our country has by giving to service and to the right to build. And we will permanently run out of surfaces in forestry. And in this law there's no support in forestry and year after year they don't show up here at all. And it would also be good to see how much of these possibilities were right for the production of energy, for the production of biodiesel and other things. They're huge and certainly needed by our country. I would further say, at that time, these days Mr. Minister often performed, he had about the Law on Encouragements and on the problems of wheat, etc. And then it's inconceivable to say that it'll be better for wheat producers, that they'll get more money, and at the same time the means to implement the law, I say, are not needed extra. But it will be rerouted for, from the Ministry's funds. And it is known that the funds of the Ministry of Agriculture are very small anyway. And there were previous governments, all of them, and today they're small. And I appeal, the county is also small and the municipalities and cities are insufficient. And I appeal to the minister to at least use the position when there are changes like this to get us MPs to put pressure on the government to get more funds, so that he can do whatever he wants with them. Here is today when we voted on the budget, the other day I explained two proposals for coolants and irrigation, and these funds are insufficient. And how with the incentives, then, we're going to have a quality agricultural policy, and frankly, we don't have what it takes to track it. We do not have the resources we need, and we are simply in this way brought into a stalemate position that we will not do all the measures necessary to make our peasants better able to enter the European Union than we will continue to be addicted to import lobbies, from selling everything and everything on our market, from meat, milk, fruit, vegetables, everything. Furthermore, what we can encourage is certainly in rural development and there is a need to use and encourage as much as possible and especially for which I would advocate that those areas in which management is difficult, and here above all I think about those areas that are at higher altitudes of 700, 800 meters, they are mostly in areas of special concern, but simply these incentives that have been and so far are insufficient. Here I could give an example of the incentives that are related to the production of haystacks in areas of, say, a thousand metres of mountainous Lika quota and others where the amount is 100 kuna per hectare, and practically those other than that for livestock production where they use it cannot do anything special or produce it. I think it is necessary for these people to be able to have a better incentive at least to stimulate them in a way that the more they produce themselves for food to their cattle. Here I can give an example, I know a family that cuts all our forest averages in the patch and meadows it has just to feed those cows that it has on these stables because it's simply forced to do so, and all the other corn production and everything else that production needs to buy because it's worse at these altitudes can't be produced above sea level. Furthermore, I would say that it is not good that we have abolished the incentives for carnivorous and female calves here and I think that it should be far greater and we in the amendment we have tried to suggest that it be an appropriate price that could be as such and which could then encourage that production. I mean, first of all, with horse horses that aren't much, there's about 3,000 or how many 3 and a half, 4 grand, and if we're not going to encourage our indigenous wealth to say that, I don't know how we're going to do it. This incentive is very small. Also, when it comes to wheat incentives, we have often been forced here to say no to the various kinds of incentives, the protests, the fulfillment of any agreements, everything else, I think this way to encourage one culture at the expense of some others, at the expense of the funds that the ministry will reroute only for that, then we'll put in a position to help now one part here see our minister and assistants who are from Slavonia, and the other might be very unhappy and I don't think it's good if we increase already, then at least today we could rebalance the budget and then I think we'd all be satisfied and then we'd show good will here we increase by so much and we have an item in the budget for that. Unfortunately, we didn't have a budget rebalancing today, so obviously that's something else, and I think that since we're talking about it, it's an incentive of two thousand and 250 kuna, so that it could certainly be something higher and then we'd be satisfied with all the producers that are doing it. I'd like to conclude in the end. I suggest to Mr. Minister that the word "foreigning" is deleted from this Law because one item does not apply to forestry, and you will find illogically in some law you have something, and nothing applies to that. That's what I suggested to the former minister a few years ago at the counsel club, so it's only because it's called the ministry, right? I don't think we're correct in that section towards forestry and that we could finally start introducing incentives for noise in your ministry, Mr. Minister, especially now that we've established an advisory service, etc. We try to make something out of it so that at least we can see what it will be and how it will be publicly encouraged, especially when I said that the product can also be used in the production of organic diesel, was energy and the rest, and I would therefore conclude this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71069	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Honorable Representative Bozidar Pankretic 5 minutes. Excuse me, excuse me, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71070	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here I have to say that I completely agree with what the esteemed representative of Ledinsky said to be in state support under the law we're talking about really about agriculture, and you can't see forestry. In any case, I think he's well focused that the forestry in this proposal is just a ficus and the incentives here are nothing. All I'm interested in is that maybe since we've passed the forest law that allowed it, for example. Expansion of entrepreneurship zones and in the forest area should these areas be particularly stimulated or forested in some areas? I may not have figured that out enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71071	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71072	I'd like to answer my colleagues. When I talked about these incentives, then I primarily thought about encouraging our private forest owners who are private forest owners, it is about 20% of the forests in the Republic of Croatia that are mostly poor quality, bad structure, and it is also known that private owners have a huge part of the area especially in Lika and other parts of the country that are today some abandoned forests that could turn into more quality forests and that could produce a large part of energy in the short term, there are rapidly growing areas with which these noises can be done. If there were incentives then there would be this reforestation, and an example of how a particular incentive can be used to help just incentivize agriculture where we have processed most of the area for the area of incentives today. Therefore, if we were to start with smaller symbolic means in a short time, we would encourage this production and we could... e.g. Today in Italy, you have that agricultural areas are used to plant poplars within 70 centimeters, therefore, that mass is used for energy, for everything else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With a symbolic incentive, we could do much to encourage this production, and since the law says that the incentives in forestry are for that reason, I had to say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71073	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS club, 5 minutes of honourable representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71074	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Minister! Well, here's the thing. Dear colleagues here have mentioned some special cultures in warfare, and there have been oil tails, and I'm a big supporter of that. Of course there will be some other cultures that are not mentioned here and I will try to advocate here and I will only talk about these short five minutes about one incentive that we suggest which I think is extremely important and that we should not go over these changes and supplements this time and that is an incentive for a cow-body system that is unfortunately left in the same amount and the amount of 500 kuna. Our proposal is that it amounts to three thousand kunas and I will try to elaborate it as briefly as possible. We all know that without further ado, the number of cows as a result of the war and the negative trends in Croatia's cattle production and lately more and more prominent specialisation in cow's milk production has been questioned by the seal characteristics and quality of the calves for this. I must point out that we all know how to increase production per cow that this is how the number of calves falls in Croatia, and today we are certainly in one major deficit, and that deficit is being compensated for by the import bodies we must say that it has never been or will be the quality that we have here in Croatia. Maximumly, let us see some of the data that apply in this part and how the relationship is related to the European Union and how we try to compare it. Today, there are 31 million 211 thousand cows in the European Union, of which we have 19 million 514 dairy and 11 million 697 thousand in the cow-body system. In Croatia, unfortunately it is this information, which means I will now tell you, for example, by country. It's a country-wide relationship. In France you have 3 million 780 and these dairy have 4 million 133, so it's almost 50-50. For example, in Ireland you have the same million 103,000 of these cows and a million 129 thousand of these milky ones. We even have Spain where there's a million 442 thousand in the cow-body system and the dairy have a million and 102 thousand, so they have more in the cow-body system than they have in this part. Trends in Europe are also the decline of these dairy for the production of milk specialized in that part and this part is increasing in the cow-body system. Unfortunately, I must say, this is also the result of good incentive policies in the European Union and the greatest incentives when they are seen are right in that segment. I'll just tell you that, for example, it amounts to production premiums in this part of the annual premium per cow of 200 euros, an annual premium per cow of 24.80. At least when you add up 384 euros and that's the part that helped them in that part. I have to say that when we're adding up this part and you're comparing it unfortunately to the current state then you have to know that you have a thousand thousand kunas per cow and on the other hand you have 800 because you've now reduced to 500 per cow for milk. But you have an average production of 3 thousand 759 liters times 0.65 kuna, and when you add it up, you have 3 thousand and 200 kuna per cow in the system of this milky and you remain at a thousand and 500 kuna per piece. Therefore, if we want to increase this production we have ideal conditions I assure you. Croatia has countless pastures and meadows, which is why we suggest that pastures and meadows are encouraged by 500 kunas to increase significantly but still condition itself with the number of throats per hectare because this is a condition that will not result in any major increase in that item, but in any case, I urge you that we will be able to have for the future the development of this system that I tell you has a lot of advantages, can be achieved with it what we seek and that is to meet the needs of beef, in beef if we continue this trend. We only have traces of production in the cow-body system. Unfortunately, we didn't have it in our tradition. Unfortunately, with the sucklings we've put up to 6,000 liters we'll only have the number but not the production, I assure you, only the number that will be useful to us I agree here, but we only have to lift this production in a way that is not my findings, these are the findings of experts from the Faculty of Agriculture, primarily Professor Knezevic, who did a full study on it. We have benefits for the reason that we have the Gorski kotar, we have Lika, we have lots of meadows and pastures, unfortunately, which fail where we have no opportunity, sheepkeeping has also fallen in a certain part. This system has interested people if we're going to encourage it enough I'm sure it will succeed so I'd like to ask you to put it in the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71075	The final minister of agriculture and forestry and the water economy, Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71076	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable Madam Representatives and Gentlemen Representatives! First of all, I would like to thank everyone for their helpful suggestions and suggestions. And let me just say a few more things in the final word, I won't be too long. I would like to stress that these amendments and complement the Law on Monetary Encouragements in Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry are not officially a change in the Philosophy of Incentives, they are a continuation and are being upgraded to the 2002 law which had its amendments and additions in 2003 and 2004 and I am free to state the last amendments and additions of this law and that in the next, this will be the adoption of a whole new law, a law that will be with a completely different philosophy and law which will be largely harmonising the policies of incentives and support with policy or better put forward with a common agricultural policy of the European Union. So this is one alignment, this is the creation of those more favourable conditions for targeted production. Just by analysing and establishing strategic trends in agriculture that are irrefutable towards a more significant development of livestock farming, greater participation of labour-intense cultures, means increasing areas under orchards, vineyards, olive groves, emphasis on vegetable production, flowers. So in this context, we should also look at these changes and additions. I want to stress that what has been done here in this year with wheat gives in any case a significant step and that practically and you will see it already this year. The wheat is no longer a political issue, the wheat is not in an administrative manner a price, and assumptions will be created for good and cooperation and a good relationship between manufacturers and purchasers and wheat processors. There will be conjecture for something more important. There will be assumptions that Croatian wheat processors are taking their traditional places of export again, that we are again exporters of flour to Bosnia and Herzegovina and some other countries and that is in the context of exactly what we want. And I think this is an extraordinary move that finally comes from both public reflections and reflections of the associations shows that, that we're right. We simply couldn't make that move in 2004. I said in 2004, we started a process of definitive wheat resolution. In three steps, practically in 2004, it was necessary that we, once again, come to the real knowledge of wheat production in quantities, and that we are no longer deluded and that we no longer make any more of those huge factions in either ransom or export, and the fact itself, I do not want to be malice that in 2003, when production is known to us, what it was like to be singled out of the State budget by 124 million for refraction, to compensate for the exports of wheat. I mean, she's just saying that enough for herself. Because, you know, and it just means 2004, in the way of the ransom, in 2005, when we made a decision on market order, he is who he is. It's not a real market order, but there was one step and where we created more favourable conditions and now we've created a conjecture. Financially looking at and counting producers have been practically at the same level of revenue generated per unit of surface since 2004, 2005 and 2006. But we have created what is far more favourable that practically wheat becomes a competitive product and that wheat products become competitive for export. As far as the financial effect on the state is concerned, he's practically the same dear friends. In 2004, in 2005, we paid for the 1600 and some kuna incentive and paid for the refraction or a ransom subsidy to make the wheat 92 limes out of 10 limes per zirca 500 thousand tonnes. It's a $50 million circus. Now we estimate that it would be, that it would be somewhere around 550,000 tons. With a bill like that, it's a $55 million circus. The incentive system will go about 110 to 115 thousand hectares, which is converted into money, somewhere between 66 and 70 million. So there's no big difference for the state either. You know. It's practically the same or similar money. As for the oily turnips and the production of bio-elevator, I fully accept all this said here, but I have two things to stress. Croatia unfortunately, I say, has not yet created a legislative framework for the production of biodiesel. The second thing, in countries where diesel is produced, incentives for this production are partially resolved through incentives, direct incentives and partly through incentives in fiscal policy and through tax, tax policy management. We are ready to go in the direction of creating a more favourable framework for the production of oilseeds or other olives for the production of bio diesels, but we are also aware that Croatia will never be some huge producer of bio diesel or ethanol because there are simply no available areas such as those of countries in an environment that have significantly larger orange surfaces than Croatia. But we absolutely support the production of biodiesel in Croatia, so if it should be better for diesel and ethanol to be produced in Croatia, even if they even imported corn or oil rape, but to be produced, let it be produced here. As far as livestock farming is concerned through this Act, I think it is clear that this intensity is mainly based on the increased participation of its own calves in this hero. Unfortunately for a variety of reasons, I will not speak and return too much now, it is known even during which period the virtually almost deadened purchase of domestic calves when it started to import calves from Romania, Slovakia, Poland and similar countries where it was then incomparably cheaper than domestic calves and then the tolls turned around. They weren't interested in domestic calves at all. And what happened? It has become a habit, and let us be honest, domestic bodies end up regardless of some rules and laws end up in a hive, and import calves are loaded. We want to put an end to it, and here's why we went here, I'd say stimulating. What do you say? Croatia has 240 thousand cows. I respect what the honourable representative and president of the Assembly Committee on Agriculture said about the need to strengthen the calf cow system. However, we have also indicated it through the operational programme for the development of bovine animals, but unfortunately I may be wrong, but it seems to me that so far not one single request has reached for credit funds for the establishment of the calf farm. But you need to know that Croatia, as I said, has 240 thousand throats of cows, that 75% of them waste on the symental breed. And that in Croatia was practically tradition was the cultivation of symental and breeding and as milky but also as meaty cattle. And that's why we've just recognized the need to protect that part of the conditionally said small producer or rather to protect every cow we've gone and put in place an idea maybe a little symbolically, maybe we've gone a little bit too far and we've just encouraged her for the reasons for the need for a calf than for the production of milk. As far as imputations are concerned, we've abolished the incentive to fertilize the calves and cartilages and so forth, and we've just reformed them. You know very well because I said this law-based law was in 2002. You know very well the philosophy and all the changes you've done in 2003 when you practically by law, by amending the 2003 law, you simply threw out the first bodies, first stalls, first ditches from the law and delayed application for 2004 to simply show those who came to power in 2004 so that they no longer encourage it. We analyzed the situation and came to a conclusion, but not only did we analyze it. It's also the conclusion with the dairy association and with the mats and with the manufacturers' associations and we returned no, not the calf, but the first calf. For the simple reason that a part of the female body does not end in breeding but ends, achieves an incentive and ends in slaughter, and then I think it's a vain job and reduces it in the way it's calculated through the quotas, then reduces the incentive to those who end up in breeding, and that's why we're back to the first-born, first-timer, first-timer, first-timer and first-breed. So for all breeding animals that haven't been until now, you have to admit that it's been introduced and that what we're holding is far more positive and effective. And here, I mean I have nothing more to add. I thank everyone again for the debate. We've listed everything you've discussed. I apologize to some MPs because I had to really get out, but we did, my associate wrote it down. As far as Podravka is concerned, I am sorry for the esteemed representative for the reason that his debate is not on the trail of what has been said in the last month I would even be going on in this space in terms of finding a solution to the solution to the problem in Podravka, Umag. And that's why I didn't want to touch it. But you're just looking for me to tell you responsiblely that we, we know about this problem and that it's not going to happen this year, so by next year, this problem will definitely be solved. We are very interested in producing tomatoes or tomatoes, because it is one of the basic raw materials for the mass of other tomatoes-based products. And it won't happen for sure, we're in touch with both local and regional self-government and producer associations, but also with Podravka. And let me just say that in some way he shouldn't have you, I'm not allowed as a minister to correct MPs, but just to say that the state doesn't have a control package and is not largely owned by Podravka. If I'm not mistaken, I think the state is somewhere below 20%, somewhere around 18, 17% still has stakes in Podrava. So the state can't do as you think, one administrative way to order. And I don't think that if we had a bigger package, it wouldn't be good. We need to resolve this problem on the basis of economic relations and the creation of economic assumptions for competitive tomato production in this area where there are exceptional conditions and where production is very good and where indicators from production to analytical and composition are extremely good. Well, it won't happen that he doesn't come, that that production will fail. Here, thank all those who participated and contributed to the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71077	I thank the minister. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71078	Thank you. So our minister says incorrectly, says this law does not represent a change in the philosophy of encouragement. Mr. Minister, this law represents the collapse of the incentive system in a way that brings it back and we will get an increase in the production of cultures that we have too much on the domestic market, and they are uncompetitive. And the production of cultures that we don't have enough will be reduced and we'll have to import them. And as for the promotion of female breeding calves. Mr. Minister, make up your mind, you've written here to abolish the incentive to raise female breeding calves, and now you say it doesn't go away. So make up your mind and tell us if it's being abolished or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71079	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Chuhil.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71080	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I have to correct our minister who claims that we don't have a surface for the production of corn for bioethanol, or we don't have a surface for the production of rape oil. Minister, 300 thousand acres of unprocessed, not counting mined areas. So we have a surface. On the other hand, you must direct incentives and to control incentives to spend on quality technologies, not what you have done in Article 5, that there will be some kind of philosophy about rural space, not technology and calculations that must be born with actual fruit at the end. Secondly, I'm correcting you that it's not true that you've directed an incentive to intensive working cultures. Because how to define that you have increased the incentives for wheat that is widely considered an extensive culture, and at the same time you have done nothing to increase those thousands of 250 kunas on vegetables, on culture, on medicinal plants that are everywhere intensive working cultures. So obviously something is wrong in both incentives and technology. Let's try to make it right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71081	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71082	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Act on State support in agriculture, fisheries and forestry. State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go. Amendment 1. The Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71083	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71084	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 2nd Amendment of the same Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71085	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71086	It's an integral part of the law. 3. The IDS counseling club?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71087	The 3rd amendment of the IDS Representatives Club is not accepted by the Government, with the following explanation. The industrial tomatoes are already covered by the incentive system within the group of vegetable products for industrial processing. We also pay for an industrial tomato by a hectare. Therefore, the calculation unit is the area for both consumption and industrial and should also be said that the incentives for industrial processing or industrial tomatoes are arranged in the same way as for all others, all other vegetables for industrial processing. However, from this amendment, we recognize the same thing as the three that support it, we recognise the concern of continuing production and processing in the Umag industrial tomatoes processing plant and what we can certainly claim from the activities so far, that production will not be questioned and will be sought as a long-term solution with Podravka, Istria County and the town of Umag. So this explanation will be for all four amendments that are on the subject of industrial tomatoes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71088	Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71089	This way, normally I'm going to ask to vote on my amendment or the IDS Club amendment. First thing I want to do is deny the minister's statement that the government doesn't have a control package in Podravka from Umag. Or... There's over the Fund... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand, speakers speak out loud.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71090	Leave the control package in Podravka now, please. Representative Cain, please restrict yourself to this amendment and to its explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71091	Secondly, the truth is that the industrial tomato with the 3,000 kuna per hectare is covered, but that's not enough. That's not as much as IDS wants. And we're looking for 0.35 kuna per kilogram. Based on what [[The intruders don't understand.]] On the basis of these incentives, about 3 million kunas should be allocated. [[Intruder: Peace!]] If you keep in mind that this is only 0.2% of the billions of 800 million kunas that the state of Croatia singles out for incentives in the IDS Club, we believe that, under the allegations of the Croatian state's efforts, it would be an opportun to preserve production in a factory with a century. We fear after the Podravka from Umag or Koprivnica started anyway, as they say? Moving machines to neighbouring Slovenia, gentlemen, not as TDR works from Zagreb moves machines to Rovinj, but from Umag to Slovenia to be ill-written farmers. And we want to make sure that this factory survives, or that farmers and workers don't come to the shame of either this or any other government the day after tomorrow. I welcome the government's efforts to find a solution for the factory to move to the industrial zone. The city of Umag is ready to give up construction land for 99 years without compensation. To forgive the investor of any municipal investment or allocation of funds...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71092	Thank you very much, thank you. Thank you. The vote. ... Okay, thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? 15 for, 7 abstentions, 64 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 4. also the IDS Representatives Club?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71093	4. The government does not accept with a given explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71094	Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71095	On the trail of this beginning, the initial part of my argument really leaves me nothing but to repeat that [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71096	Peace be upon you, for God's sake!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71097	Podravka from Koprivnica which controls...... Why are you doing this to me? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Moved a piece of machinery to neighbouring Slovenia I'm afraid, gentlemen, that may be an overture to shut down the factory, and I'm asking so much for an industrial tomato to be included in the subject matter of the law. [[Intruder: So calm down!]] Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71098	Let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? Nineteen for it. Three abstentions. 63 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 5. The Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71099	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71100	It becomes an integral part of the Law. Six. The IDS counseling club?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71101	The government doesn't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71102	Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71103	I would also like to add not only that the Government of the Republic of Croatia controls 26.6% of Podravka from Koprivnica but also that the "management" of the factory controls 10% of the same. That one of the major individual co-owners and Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Government is Mr. Polancec and so much so as to trace his promise that the industrial tomatoes will be included in this Act, I ask the Assembly MPs this time of the HDZ that this is the promise of their vice president be translated into a legal norm.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71104	Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? Nineteen for it. Three abstentions. 63 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Seven. The Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71105	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71106	It's an integral part of the law. Eight of the same committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71107	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71108	It's an integral part of the law. Nine?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71109	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71110	Legislative Committee, composite. Ten. The HSS counseling club?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71111	The 10th Amendment is not accepted by the Government. I, in my explanation, must point out that for these amendments and additions to the Law, we are provided with budgetary resources and that these changes are covered by the budgetary opportunities of the state. Also in this phase of the development of Croatian agriculture together with associations of manufacturers and producers, we have made certain analyses and assessments and located priority. We have done these priorities in this proposal to amend and supplement the law on increased incentives. Therefore, the government does not accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71112	Representative Bozidar Pankretić on behalf of the HSS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71113	Mr. Secretary of State, unfortunately, I must say that not accepted in this part of this amendment means that this government is not ready to learn in reform that unfortunately because of cheap political score it is late with reforms and that unfortunately it will have long-term consequences in that part. I can accept the budgetary constraints, etc., but you and I both know that these budgetary constraints are extremely risky about agriculture. But I will warn you of one part of this amendment. Today in Croatia we have 5% of cows in the cow-body system and 95% in the dairy cow system. In Europe it is 50 to 50. Unfortunately I must tell you if you include imports of calves in Croatia today you have almost 70% of imports of beef. If we want to change that, we need to increase incentives in the cow-body system. And I don't think we need that much funding in that part. It would not have been more significant to break through this item, and otherwise it would have cost us a lot in the long run. I must say, it is unfortunate that you did not accept this amendment because Croatia has potential, has meadows, has pastures, has the potential to develop this production. Unfortunately for this second, you don't have the strength to go into reform, I think it'll be tragic for all of us. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71114	Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? 30 for, 4 abstentions, 63 against, did not get the required majority. 11. IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71115	The government doesn't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71116	Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71117	I don't know if you know it, but Podravka...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71118	Please don't rule out an agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71119	The pay sublevel means that imported tomato 0.35 kuna per kilogram, and from home... /The speaker has been excluded./... will buy another year for 0.70 kuna per kilogram. Why is it so cheap out there? Because it's stimulated by reasonable governments with 30 to 40 lips per kilogram. And now we'd be stimulating three thousand kunas per hectare. And it's clear that that's the same ratio and price difference, so it's either happening or it's going to happen to us that the farmers are going to lose their production, and that we're going to be in the same way as we normally do in order to subscribe to imports and such an item that we can otherwise grow in domestic fields. So many gentlemen please grant these 0.35 kuna per kilogram. And please vote for that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71120	Please vote. The result? 26 for, 5 abstentions, 63 against, did not get the required majority. 12th representative of Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71121	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71122	It becomes an integral part of the law. 13. HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71123	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71124	It becomes an integral part of the law. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State support in agriculture, fisheries and forestry. Please, let's get on with it. He can vote. The result? With 69 for, 5 abstentions and 31 against, the proposed law was adopted in the text as proposed by the Government along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71125	We're crossing. ... Late. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We're going to the next item on the agenda. - Final proposal of the Act confirming the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the project "Completion of the Rijeka-Zagreb highway", emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 528 The bill is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this law. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Finance and the State Budget and by the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. You received the report at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, Zdravko Livaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71126	Honored Mr. Vice President, esteemed MPs and MPs. Here's a few sentences about this point. In accordance with the Decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia of 1 December '95. The authorised Croatian delegation performed on 5 and 6 December '95. negotiations with the European Investment Bank on a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank on a project to complete the Rijeka-Zagreb highway. On February 15th, the government adopted a report on the completed negotiations for the conclusion of a guarantee contract and authorised the finance minister to sign the contract. The guarantee contract was signed in Rijeka on 9 March 2006. On the same day, a contract was signed between Autocesta Rijeka-Zagreb and the European Investment Bank on the financing of a project approved by the European Investment Bank for the loan of 210m euros intended to co-finance the construction of a second stake on the remaining 44km in the half-way between Kikovica and Stara Stućica near Vrbovski. So out of a total of 55km of semi-profil in 2005, the construction of the second wheel began at 11km between Stara Stućica and Bosiljev. The first three kilometers were recently put into circulation, and the next 8 is in realisation. These works are financed from a neutral credit for the first stage of highway construction. Work on the remaining 44km co-financed by this loan began at the end of June 2006, and the completion and release of the road is scheduled by the end of 2008 as envisioned by the government's programme on public road construction. Thus, the Rijeka-Zagreb highway would be run in the full profile of highways all over the length of 146.5km. The total cost of this project has been estimated, amounting to 290m euros, and will be financed as follows. 30m euros in own funds from Rijeka-Zagreb Motorway, these 210m euros in the loan in question and another 50m euros in loans negotiated with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The loan to the EIB was granted subject to the following conditions: the issue of a State guarantee, the payment period of 25 years with 5 years starting, a fixed interest of 3,85 % or variable according to the choice of a borrower at no normal cost. In accordance with the Law on the conclusion and execution of international contracts, it is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on the confirmation of a guarantee contract between the Republic of Croatia and the EIB for a project to complete the Rijeka-Zagreb highway in the proposed text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71127	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71128	Dear Mr. Vice President, the esteemed secretary of state, etc. Gentlemen of the Parliament, in time I picked up the plate, but that's not why. I have always said that the zero point of all Croatian traffic routes must be Rijeka port, these are the traffic routes which then lead from it towards Zagreb, Budapest, i.e. Zagreb towards Ljubljana, Vienna further towards Europe, Split, etc. This law means 210m euros in IDS is absolutely supportive. The interest we see is acceptable. The repayment deadline for that loan is optimal. The need to build this highway with us who, so to speak, are almost daily and it is clear that the construction needs to be approached as soon as possible. We see the end of the road that it is three years, so until 30.6.2009 and how roads have been built lately in Croatia, we can say that it is also a real time option. But here I would like to mention that one of the few Croatian counties that is not yet available at this time is the County of Istria. Yes, from another shithole, the County of Istria has absurd tolls, namely bridge Mr. Secretary of State, which you know very well, 14 kunas for 1.5km of bridge we cross over Mirna, 28 kuna for Učka tunnel, which is 5200 meters long. I would also like to mention that in the first six months of this year, eight people died on the Istrian Ipsilon, and 11 of them in 2005. And that this particular road may be the best example that the 0.0 bill has passed is simply unnecessary, that it does not affect the reduction of traffic accidents but that it is solely credit to express new kilometers of highways. So that I wouldn't be talking about the roads in Istria now, and neither is Ipsion, to not speak in the participation of the Parisian parish in the state budget, I'm just going to say that the number of people killed, and that's why I took the most of the participation, on Ipsilon requires that the construction of the second lane of that road be started, but that there's no confusion at least not with me so that nobody gets me wrong, I absolutely believe that this river-Zagreb road is an absolute state priority maybe the accident of that road so far has been in that it's never been mentioned in any political context. I also want to say that this model borrows where we ourselves borrow from European banks, etc. So it's a much cheaper form than, say, a public private partnership. We need a public private partnership especially for local self-government, because they do not have the opportunity to come to the agreement of the Ministry of Finance for borrowing, but this example shows that this is incomparably cheaper than the concession, which is a note form of a public private partnership based on the Istrian Ipilon, because we have thus come to an absurd price on the tunnel, or on the bridge via Mirna. The length of the construction of that road you see and it's amazing. The suspicions of corruption from 96 are all present, and the future of the construction of the second strip is still uncertain, but I made it clear that this partnership, a public private partnership, is necessary, that it is necessary for certain local self-governments to not get the consent of the competent ministry to enter some credit arrangements. Finally, as regards the Treaty on the Guarantee between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the closure of the Rijeka-Zagreb highway, it is clear that this should be supported and required by the contractors to actually stick to the agreed deadlines.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71129	Thank you. For the club HSU, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71130	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Immediately at the beginning of Croatia, the pensioner's party firmly supports the proposal for a bill to confirm the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for a project to complete the Rijeka-Zagreb highway. So I'm one of the witnesses who practically travels on the Pula-Zagreb route every week and I'm one of the witnesses of the progress of construction and highways, and I'm kind of analyzing something that's very impressive, which is that our builders are going to step up with all European and world-wide technologies on these highways, which is very commendable, which is very impressive. So the first thing I want to say is not just us, not to speak out of the position of self-sufficient, I've talked to a lot of foreigners who are going through Croatia and what they are sure to admit to us is that in the last ten years, huge steps in the construction of road infrastructure have been seen and that this is a great recognition for Croatia. Anyway, all the distances are shrinking, everything becomes more available, all the operating conditions are better than they were 10 years ago. In other words, we should congratulate the consortium of Croatian builders on such demanding ventures, and in the end we can say that we came to what the Slovenians had 15 years ago, because Slovenians pointed out their inscription very impressively on their highways and all over Slovenia it said "Slovenia is building its highways". I think that Croatia can finally join even though I personally think it should have been done before and from the beginning. But right now, we can say that Croatia is actually building its highways with its builders. The river-Zagreb, the highway of Rijeka-Zagreb, was first built and of course deserved such a big step at the very end, that it was really impressive because it was not a little to build these 40 and so many kilometers. Secondly, I think the stock from Tuhobiæ to the gate node deserves immediate construction because the existing route requires maintenance, and there is no alternative. So she's in one of the worst situations. What I may find difficult to say, but tonight, I've waited a long time but I've been waiting tonight with my colleague Caine, I absolutely have to agree. First, because he did not vaccinate with statistics but said what is concrete and correct, which is that indeed all of us in Croatia have been past the construction of road infrastructure and that as a county we have fallen far below every average mile of highway across the county. Because other than the hub to turn where it has about a mile and a half of highway profiles, Istria has no profile. What should be said, and that was my dilemma in the adoption of the Road Safety Act, when we also said that we would observe road safety under new conditions. When we introduced a lot of newspapers at one point. Namely, new highways have been built. We today, since we have introduced both 0.0 and new highways and different signalling and different conditions for passing exams, we do not know how to evaluate today, we do not know how much building new kilometers of highways has contributed to road safety. And we're always going to leave ourselves too much space to politicize, and we're too little room to argue, which is the element which, therefore, the element most contributed to the safety of traffic on the roads. It's partly my profession and mine. I only know one thing, analyzing what's going on on the Istrian Ipsilon, and in the last 15 days, we have seven deaths, so two accidents, but seven deaths. The most difficult element in driving is racing, especially on a fast road. It's being solved on the highway because we're not outrunning anyone, or anyone's coming in the opposite direction, and that's an element of security that has no alternative. It is the only real element of security that guarantees high speeds, and they are everywhere present with a higher level of security. So I absolutely agree that the project of turning the Istrian Ipsilon from the fast road into the highway must continue immediately. That Istria with its tourism and its potential cannot wait 3 or 5 years for the construction of the highway, or building a full profile. In the end, did Dalmatina, before it started to be built, in any way, meet all the conditions regarding the amount of traffic? It's not. Well, the amount of traffic is created by road infrastructure. Therefore, there is no reason not to start building a second highway profile in Istria immediately. And something I might want to say in the end, something we may forget a lot. We of Zagreb, but it is also important, it is important for our environment, it is important for the animal world. We do not have any animal crossings on the move from Zagreb to Vrbovski. Whether it's the projectors, whether it's our animal protection associations or not I don't know which ones are not active enough on that plan, but one fact is that we have a 50-mile highway that cuts across all the roads, the natural pathways of savages and disrupts the biological balance. I think that's what the projectors and we as politicians have to take care of. And in the end, what I'm saying is purely well-intentioned. Therefore, I want that to be taken care of in the future. Therefore, full support with one single request and a request to continue the construction of the Istrian Ipsilon in a profile full of highways begins immediately, i.e. to find opportunities like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71131	Thank you. Honorable representative of Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71132	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. Almost daily we can see news of traffic accidents, often with very severe and tragic consequences on the Rijeka-Zagreb highway. This applies in particular to the part that has not been constructed by the second wheel, given that most drivers are driving at the same speed as the full profile part. In the situation of intensive traffic, which is the case on this road daily, throughout the year, given its geographical and economic importance, it is necessary to complete a full profile in order to have better flow and traffic safety in particular in winter conditions. Although part of the funding to continue the construction was secured and made available immediately after the completion of the Bosiljevo-Vrbovska stock, it was stifled to 2 years by the prime decision of the government, and investment in highways was declared a deficit of the coalition government. If the construction was continued, it would have been completed by 2008. However, I am glad that on this example, the government recognized another mistake, and this treaty corrects it. Since I drive this highway on my way to Zagreb every week, I am familiar with the situation throughout the year and I welcome the decision to intensify its completion in full profile and I will give full support to this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71133	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Act on the confirmation of a guarantee contract between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the project "Completing the Rijeka-Zagreb highway". I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 102 votes, 2 abstentions, 1 against the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71138	I think it would be illusory to demand that this debate be extended for tomorrow, but I would ask you, Mr. President, if we can submit the amendments by tomorrow to some decent time of 11, 12 hours, we don't need any longer.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71139	I would love to, but I can't grant that application because the Rules of Procedure make it impossible to comply with Article 164 of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure may be submitted to the hearing by the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71140	Yeah, but in the budget it's so... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71141	The budget has a different regime, yes. State Secretary of the Central Office Antun Palaric will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71142	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ladies and gentlemen representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Before the regular local elections, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposed the full text of the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia in order to combat one place the amendments to the law since the last more extensive territorial reform that was in '97. In order to introduce all the changes that have been made in the meantime by establishing new settlements, bringing the settlement together, by changing the name of the settlement, but also by respecting the will of the citizens that the two municipalities so far have achieved significant economic and cultural development to the city level, to be granted city status because they have become their local centres and have received city features. It's St. Sunday and Island. Furthermore, the government also proposed the establishment of new municipalities when it was proposed to establish the Municipality of Lopar and the Municipality of Vinodol, the Municipality of Podvinje, the Municipality of Vrsi, the Municipality of Tribunj, the Municipality of Štitar, the Municipality of... the care of the Municipality of Funtana, and in this Law a proposal for the establishment of a new municipality of Trvis is the initiative that has existed since 2000, in the meantime, been renewed, supplemented, explained by a broad-ranging design on several hundred pages and, therefore, the Government proposes that the municipality be established. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Republic of Croatia has developed its local self-government well enough, a contribution of its own municipality, the organisation of a specific area as a special unit of local self-government has proved to be good and therefore there is a great interest in the environments that consider it to be able to finance public expenditure itself to create new municipalities, therefore the Government has proposed this Law by respecting the will of the citizens. The law received the support of most MPs in the Croatian Parliament before the elections, but not enough to be a majority of all MPs, but the government has not given up on it and therefore proposes that the law be adopted now in order to respect the will of citizens and to fully regulate the area by one special law. There are many amendments to the law regarding the name of the settlement and respect for the will to cross the settlements from one municipality to another that we have installed in this Law, we have also installed numerous amendments that have been proposed and explained to us in the early reading of this Law, so we believe that there is now a sufficient will of the majority in the Croatian Parliament to respect the will of the inhabitants and that this Law is adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71143	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71144	Thank you very much. Mr Palarić presented two incorrect allegations in his opening statement that I would like to correct. The first is that in last law, a law last year that did not get the necessary majority in the Croatian Parliament that included all the requirements that came from the field. That's not true. In particular, the request for the Municipality of Kukuljanovo, former or Kukuljanovo City of Bakar, was not included even though it had passed the necessary procedure. Another incorrect allegation is that the law was supported by most of the MPs in the Croatian Parliament. It's just not true. It's an organic law that requires 77 is the majority, and that law has received 76 votes in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71145	Thank you. Legislative committees, Constitution, Rules of Procedure, political system, local and regional self-government? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HSU Club, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71146	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian party of pensioners is generally against the territorial termination of counties, municipalities and cities because we are aware that in two, three years we will have to round up all these units of local and regional regional self-government if we are to meet some European criteria because such delicacy is not an economic justification. But at this moment we have certain criteria that we as a Croatian party of pensioners must respect and the Croatian Party of Retired will respect those proposals in which the will of citizens is respected and where the whole procedure is respected. Here, there is no dilemma, there are such cases, but we will also be harsh against all those cases where it is not so or not respected procedure. In particular, I will refer to the municipality of Trviž, it is a proposal of a new municipality and I am very interested in this elaborate which Mr. Secretary of State mentioned on a thousand pages on the justification for the establishment of the Municipality of Trviž for one single reason, because it would be logical if such a municipality were formed to include the local committees of Kašterga, Zamask and Zamak dol for one reason, because the municipality as the intended intersection was the only time to the town of Pazina and practically citizens of Kašterga, Zamak and Zamak dol must go through another municipality to reach the city of Pazina or to respect the present situation. Secondly, it is said here that the last initiatives were around 2000, so there are five to seven years away from when the initiatives have emerged and we know that in the judiciary we have a period of limitation, so there should be a period of limitation and renewal of the initiative and, without some question, citizens are not acceptable to us. In particular, there is a triple problem in this municipality of Trvig. Namely, what it's about. It is not only the separation of a new municipality from the town of Pazin itself, but it is also required that the village of Bazgali, which belongs to another municipality, is inserted into the town of Pazin, which means that we would have here in the event of accepting this triple election, in order to get three of the two entities that are in difficulty but which are able to cope well with these difficulties, in particular the town of Pazin and the municipality of Gračiseva, which would only be weaker. As far as Gračišje is concerned, the settlement has about 300 people and is essentially one-fifth of the total number of citizens of Gračišina municipality and the Municipality of Gračišina, which has an extremely dynamic chief who has set up potentials, it is Mr. Mijandrusic, who has launched the potential of this extremely rural municipality that belongs to the hill-mounted area and the Gračišice municipality has invested in the construction of infrastructure for the development of entrepreneurial zones. Now this proposal is behind which it does not stand because I have not seen anywhere a new initiative of the citizens of the town of Bazgalji to seek to go again under the city of Pazin, I have not seen this renewed initiative but in this proposal it is proposed that they belong under the city of Pazin as a possible compensation for the creation of the municipality of Trviž. Look, I'm very emotionalally connected to the Gracia municipality, it's the birthplace of my mom, and I care about her being such a strong community of Gracice and making progress and continuing to develop at this pace, and that these awakened potentials are actually realized. In this act I really tell me from two subjects in problems because the town of Pazin has big problems and he is having a hard time dealing with all these social problems that exist in such a rural environment because of the virtually falling industry because he had a textile industry that simply does not allow for further development because competitive goods are simply much cheaper, simply there are very limited development opportunities and by the way there are business failures and there have been business failures. And practically this town of Pazin has big problems in further development. However, without the municipality of Trviž or the municipality of Trviž alone without such work and while taking the Municipality of Gračilje this part of the territory we will have three subjects with much more problems. So let's conclude. The best thing in this story would be to vote on each case individually, but I don't think it's possible to do business, so we will express our opinion in front of the Croatian party of pensioners. As regards the proposed new municipalities of Tar Vabriga and the municipality of Funtana, where the procedure of the Croatian Party of Retired People will be respected, I will say openly. It is questionable, or very questionable, that the Trviž municipality situation and we simply cannot vote for this and in our election unit, in particular VIII. We have another problem, a problem that is not insignificant, which is the division of the island community into two parts in the Rab island case. I believe that the island of Pag view sample is not a good example of the division of the island community into two municipalities and not Rab has to be Pag but let's have two viewing examples, so the unique island communities when we have already shared there that we have a bar so that we can track how one and the other situation is developing is not very bright but I say certainly these two support, these other positions are unacceptable to us. Therefore, I think it would be really best if it were possible to vote on each proposal individually, although I know it is very difficult but it would be very correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71147	Thank you. For the IDS Club, a respected representative of Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71148	Your Honor, Mr. President, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives! I agree. What we're doing is irresponsible, this is harmful, this is hypocritical, and this is politically very perfidious. You don't come here gentlemen of the interest of little people, quite the opposite. Here comes the interest of this or that policy option that suggests such a concrete solution. This is even about political engineering. And that's what you should call it. That all these suggestions or that these proposals are pure politics may best confirm Kukuljanov's case above Bakra or above Rijeka as dear to whom it pleases. It is the initiative of 1,000 inhabitants of the part that means Rijeka or Bakar, for which the government will no longer hear. And why won't he hear? Because before, say, a month or two of the elections, in Bakr, he won the HDZ. And they know now if Bakar were to run out of Kukuljanov, they'd lose 50% of the funds that belong to or at this point in that city, and we'd call it an economic, political programme for them. That's why HDZ won't form that municipality. They have no reason not to form that municipality if they are managed by the same criteria as they operate in Istria where they propose with these existing 39 municipalities, which is three other municipalities. Of course there is an initiative in Istria now. And after the fourth municipality, maybe the fifth, and soon there will be more of them until the moment until every street is its own municipality, so at the end of the day each house becomes a municipality. Well, the only question here is, who's gonna get something here? I'm afraid you won't get anything. Except that irresponsible governments are destroying a system of counties still existing gentlemen with 60th, 70th to a maximum of 250 million kuna. And just before, we were discussing laws that burden general hospitals, losses, and so on, they're completely transferring to counties that question whether they'll even be able to exist in a year. I sincerely hope that parliamentary elections, for these locals it is less important that those who propose such engineering lose these elections. And I suggest that they reform the local self-government before that if they really want to do well to the citizens who live in those areas. Why, say, is the mayor of Zagreb untouchable? Because his budget is 6.8 billion kuna or 7% compared to the state budget. Plus there's about 3 billion kuna from public companies, so then clearly you don't have to worry about pensions, you don't need to worry about health care, and with 10 billion kuna, you can be there. Now let's just say I'm reading this HNS initiative, they're proposing to divide the capital into not knowing how many municipalities, cots and so on. ......... 120 says Mr. Lesar. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I would suggest that you be so politically brave and suggest that the city of Zagreb be divided into 1,000 municipalities of the size of a "Troviza". Well, that would certainly be a good suggestion. What budgets are county and Croatia I won't speak. Now, does anyone realize at all in the government that this needs to be changed and that this is a key issue of the functioning of local self-government. At this point, there is no Mr. Bagaric here who until yesterday was the mayor of Požega. We can call it all and all, but it should but should be said that last year the budget of that county was 66 million kuna and that every other city in Croatia may have a higher budget than that county. I don't want to comment on Mr. Rabbit's stupidity, but I would like to say that what is proposed by the new municipalities is in the least irresponsible until the funding of local self-government is changed. Why don't we, gentlemen, conduct referendums in those cities where under quotes, they need to detach some environments or in one county. Why don't we ask the citizens what they think of 549 as a municipality, what county, what cities? You'd be told simply so you're not normal if you're proposing to that number right now another ten hundred municipalities or I don't know cities. The problem is also when we destroy existing municipalities with these suggestions, gentlemen. And I'm saying maybe the best example here is Pazin. Something Mr. Hrelja said about that. A city that suffered a huge blow first of all because of Pazinka, who in my mind could have worked if the investors had not somehow gone, unlike those machines from Umag that ended up in Slovenia, these investors went to Slavonia and opened up a Greenfield investment where today works somewhere around 400 people. It is proposed that the municipality of Trvis be formed through persons who are in a Catholic society and I claim that this government is the main political argument. Okay. But after what you do? What Mr. Hrell says. You're making exterior parts of the city of Pazina. What's on the other hand now with the budget of the town of Pazin itself. You're proposing to include the Basegalls from Gračis now in Pazin which is unnecessary and you question that municipality in which with all thanks Mr. Hrelja spoke on the edge of perhaps I don't know any other cities. What's a bigger problem in, the Gračisje municipality is in hill-mounted status or area. Citizens are deprived of specific specific examples. For example, the Municipality of Gračiseva in 1993 did not have a single meter of water installations. It's covered today with 95.96%. It was built over 100 maybe 20, 30 kilometers of water installations. In the Basgali area at the expense of some other parts of the municipality, enviable infrastructure was built and so on, but it should simply be. Now, gentlemen's election is due within 120 days. In this case, let us now take the Basels of two council members from the City Council to Pazin, clearly from IDS and the IDS that received 75% of the votes in Gračišje are no longer on the list of persons who could enter the Council. So it's just the Council. If someone said by the end of this term, the existing councils would exist, and in the 2009 elections, so for a realistic two or a year and a half, new municipalities would live up to absolutely nothing against such a bill. This is how I'm booked, and I'm sure there are far more opponents in Istria than there are advocates. What will happen to us in Istria? We'll have choices, not just in Funtana or Tarvabriga or Trviža. We'll also have them in Lovrec for taking away part of the territory and joining the Vrsar municipality. We'll have elections in Vrsar for joining new territory, and also for taking away part of the territory means it's Funtana, of course we'll have them in Funtana, we'll have them in Tar Vabrigia. And the question arises whether these new elections will... the election will of a year and a half ago. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I'll say it one more time. I am extremely reserved according to these solutions, and I believe that there are far more citizens in Croatia today who are opposed to this practice of defecating the municipality than you have advocates. Those who see themselves on the other hand in a chair next to a ficus I hope and with such a nasty secretary they are absolutely for, but they will quickly see that life is something else, except that the governments where they get their stabs will direct some small funds to see that these environments live, etc., and on the other hand more and more will be punished by some other environments. And so, gentlemen, it just doesn't work. Croatia should be decentralisationd, because if someone shares it, it is shared by political leaders, it is shared by authorities who simply create barriers and differences in development in one end of the Republic of Croatia in a subtle way. And I believe it's also a Croatian tragedy. I will once again say today, perhaps a second or third time, in the state budget County Istrian participates with each nine or eight kuna, but let's say for the University of Pula goes 1.8 million kuna, for Mostar there goes 360 million kuna, for the General Hospital we lose 8 and a half million kuna. For the one at Billy's, or I don't know where, I'm not going to mention how much resources are being allocated right now. He doesn't mind, let him go, but just like that, gentlemen can't. Finally, who, during one term, has the right to change the election results, whether it's Poreč, whether it's Vrsar, whether it's Bakr, whether it's a Slavonian town or maybe Pazin? It's a kind of political engineering, it's a kind of gentlemen's political setup, it's a kind of political mix-up with election results, and that's not to play if someone wants to say they enjoy a democratic legitimacy. It doesn't matter if it's the municipality, the city, the county or the Republic of Croatia. I know there's a Funtana who's got cca at this hour. Let me be corrected 10 percent of the Istrian nights, which is 3% of the Croatian nights, it can very well exist. One Tar Vabriga at national level in the number of nights may participate with 5%. And it's easy to play here now. But I think the government must be responsible in all these cases. They'll say, on the other hand, the secretary of state we're implementing the citizens' initiative. I claim that they are primarily doing political will. Because if they were to carry out the will of the citizens, then they would probably accept Kukuljanov's initiative as well. This is about playing in me one speck of politics, sharing the population in some parts, including Istria. For example, in Funtana, on the one that may have come after '48, it's ugly for me to say it, but I mention, or those who consider themselves, they experience indigenous citizens, and that's certainly not perspective policy. I repeat, 90% of the people of Istria, 90% of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are certainly against the new municipalities. And why is it working? I tried to explain it in a way. He's in Istria, for example. We see from the other side is the bypassed initiative of the Sphinx. Sphinx, I know these people alone wouldn't know what to do, but let's let it go now, let's not talk too much about it. In the end, I'll say it one more time. Absolutely, I wouldn't mind a legal proposal if the elections were held on a regular basis. That would be one optimal, that would be an honest approach. Everything else is simply on the trail of political engineering. And when Istria is even more similar, I know that some minority representatives will probably talk about it, we also join the request for bilingual inscriptions, they de facto in Istria exist in practice not only for the last 15 years but for the last 55 years, they exist on the basis of international contracts and one way of living in those areas. However, once again, I will say that the consequences or implications of this law are far-reaching, and in some concrete cases an election will since 2005 can be disabling. That's what gentlemen in the ruling party or those who will support this law have no right. That can't happen in one word. Because political engineering will be achieved in action, which will really question the democracy of the law itself and the people behind such proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71149	Thank you. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. First, respected representative Zdenko Antešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71150	Mr. President, I'd like to correct you first.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71151	I said right away, Zdenko Antesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71152	Thank you very much. Two correcting false allegations. First, Mr. Cain said that in the event of the separation of Kukuljanova settlement from the town of Bakar, the City of Bakar would run out of 50% of its budget. That's an incorrect quote. The correct assumption is that you would lose 65% of the funds in the city budget. Another incorrect allegation is that the basis of this law will be the elections in the remains of the settlements from which parts, remains of municipalities and cities from which parts of the settlements are amputated. According to this bill, that's not going to happen. Already in these remains will remain an illegal, politically illegal power that does not have political legitimacy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71153	Second correction, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71154	Thank you, Mr. President. So here, in a series of incorrect allegations, I have to first this one that's political engineering. Last year, Mr Cain claimed that political engineering was because the law was passed before the elections. It's three years before the election. Therefore, it is not about political engineering but about the will of the people. Secondly, says every other city in Croatia has a budget bigger than Požega County. Unfortunately, every seventh city, every seventh city, somewhere 20, 20, 21 cities have a higher budget than Osijek County. And third, for example, is not the only example of exteriority. This one, go to the Rakov stream here, you will see all the inhabitants of the Rak brook go to Samobor where they belong through the Municipality of St. Sunday and not just them but also other villages.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71155	They're going across the stream?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71156	Well, it's Racco's creek, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71157	Honorable representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71158	I would correct my colleague Cain's incorrect claim that there are a lot of citizens in Istria who are against this, against the creation of new municipalities. I have to tell the truth, that in Funtana and Taro Vabriga, people are in the mood for new municipalities, they were before the local elections, and that's the atmosphere today. Second, the legitimacy of their demands is given by the towns of Vrsar, the town of Poreč who accepted their initiative and supported the initiative. Legitimity also provides requirements for a county assembly that also supported their initiative. Therefore, we cannot examine ourselves in that part. Not getting into everything Mr. Cain said about this inga of these changes. That would be discussed, and we would probably agree, but this one I appreciate is useful to tell the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71159	On behalf of the SDP club, Honored Representative Zdenko Antešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71160	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. The position of the SDP club is that it is necessary to respect clearly the will of citizens who, under the Constitution and the law, want to organise themselves into their own unit of local self-government and such initiatives where this makes sense, the SDP will support. However, the proposed legal text of the SDP club has serious objections. As regards the establishment and concept of the municipality, it should be pointed out that the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government in Article 3(3) establishes that municipalities, cities and counties are established by law, and in Article 4 of the Municipality defines itself as a unit of local self-government established in the rule for the area of a number of inhabited areas which represent a natural, economic and social whole and which are linked to the common interests of the population. In case the initiative of some of the proposed solutions is, for example, Lopar, then the municipalities, and some other municipalities, it's an exception. So the new municipality is founded exclusively for a village which is already at the very beginning an exception. Furthermore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the central State Administration Office in its programming documents, advocates real decentralisation, and against the irrational increase in the number of units of local self-government while, on the other hand, putting law into the legal procedure which, among other things, re-proposes the establishment of new municipalities that do not have both material and human resources to fulfil their constitutional obligations, and in some cases, it is also about proposals that are not fully under the law. Well, I would quote from the informationer, so the content of the decentralisation framework programme is here a document that we can read here, which I quote here, says: The current experience of the local system and, in particular, regional and regional self-government points to the need for significant changes. On the one hand, the relatively large number of units of local self-government and employees in its various administrative bodies have an impact on the level of public spending while on the other hand the centralisation of many administrative activities is an obstacle to the more efficient work of the local self-government body. At the same time, the existing system of funding of the local self-government unit is largely inappropriate, it prevents the development of efficient municipal infrastructure and is rarely unable to respond to the basic needs of citizens in the field of health care, social care, employment, education, culture and environmental protection. So on the one hand, we have the attitude of the very body that proposes to change the law so as to counter the irrational increase in the number of units of local self-government that have no objective ability to satisfy their citizens normally, and on the other hand, in the procedure, we get one legal text that normally increases this large number of units of local self-government. The other interesting thing is, and that's right on the initiative so here's the signature of the Prime Minister Dr. Ive Sanader, therefore, is an initiative for the establishment of the Municipality of Tar Vabriga which came into the procedure on 1 April 2004 where the Government of the Republic of Croatia's opinion does not support the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Areas of Countys, Cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia with an explanation, quote: says, Government, quote: The Government of the Republic of Croatia points out that in principle it opposes the establishment of new municipalities, since it believes that the reduced municipalities of insufficient financial potential will not be able to carry out the tasks that are planned to be transferred to them by decentralisation. It's signed by the Prime Minister. Today something has changed in this proposal, so Tar Vabriga municipality, this proposal is fine today, and we are not talking about how okay the proposal for the establishment of the Municipality of Drvis or the Municipality of Vinodol in the Municipality of Vinodolska is, in fact, out of every sense. Furthermore, in the proposal for a new law, the Proposer in Articles 30, 31 and 32 speaks on a voluntary basis about the possibilities of establishing new units of local self-government without citing the ways in which the citizens' statement must be carried out. Is this a secret statement, whether it is public, whether it is some kind of survey or whether it is not about the deadlines in which these initiatives should be sent into the process, which leaves the possibility of abuse and manipulation in local environments, and which, in the case of the Lopar municipality initiative, the Vinodol municipality and the case. So there is a 7-year-old initiative in practice. And so, the initiative that lasts for seven years is still legitimate today to initiate one such procedure. Furthermore, in the new proposal, it is necessary to prescribe a precise way of declaring citizens, whether secret, public or referendum, and to set the deadline for putting the initiative into practice, which may be, I don't know, whether 3, 6 or 12 months. But in any case, there must be no room for manipulation. In addition, the legislative proposal completely left out the need to obtain the opinion of the representative body, which separates the new units of local self-government, which is inadmissible and penetrates the constitutional rights of the local self-government unit and leaves the possibility that any group of ambitious citizens on the ground who have a foothold in the government should establish their own municipality. It's simply not good because everyone clearly has the right to organize themselves in their community. However, it is simply unacceptable for his right and right to be separated from him, as this new proposal does not even inform the local self-government unit from which a settlement is separated into a new municipality, not to be notified at all. The article further provides that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will hold elections for members of the representative body of newly formed local self-government within 120 days. So within 4 months of the entry into force of this Act. There's already been some talk about it. It would certainly be fair if either this Law were to apply on the day of the next regular elections or should, it would be a minimum of political honesty, to discuss elections in the area and the rest of which a settlement was amputated. Because here, I was playing a little math, so I calculated it. From the Vinodol municipality of Vinodol municipality, therefore, the municipality of Vinodolska now has 3 thousand 555 inhabitants, with a total of 790 residents. So over 50%, 50 percent. So, what does that mean? This means that in the rest that remains after this part is allocated, the government does not have any political legitimacy. So, the smaller part stays, most of it stands out, and that's the part where the elections are held. This part remains the same power. So it's politically completely inappropriate. It's even worse in the city of Nin from which the Vrsa are separated. So the City of Nin has 4 thousand 603 inhabitants, Vrsi, the proposal to Vrsi is the separation of 2 thousand 404 or 52.2%. So it's an even more drastic situation. Minimum, I repeat, political honesty, that is, correctness would be to discuss elections throughout the territory and then get legitimate authority in the whole area. And here I am, at the end of the line. After electoral engineering in past local elections, the government is now implementing legal engineering that it wants to achieve on the ground, creating enclaves in terms of municipalities that do not have real conditions to meet the needs of its inhabitants. In this government approaches selectively. It does not respect the same criteria for all initiatives and respects only its narrow party interests and interests of those who will allow these interests to be realised. Now we have 549 municipalities and cities in the Republic of Croatia and a little bit, here's a little bit of a cartoon, and I suggest that every representative or every government official who has anything to do with himself propose a single municipality so we round that number to a round 700. In any case, we suggest that this Law should be withdrawn from the emergency procedure because of the great shortcomings, that it should be discussed in a calm and tolerated atmosphere in multiple readings and that after its adoption, it should be applied after regular elections, following the next regular elections. The law is inconclusive, unconsistent, crafty, leaving the possibility of manipulation and so that every political nomenclature can cover cities and municipalities as it stands with its ties in the government and at its own request. Because of this, we in the SDP have large reserves under this Act and we cannot support it in this form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71161	Thank you. For the HNS Club, respected representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71162	Thank you, Mr. President. And the HNS Club won't support this bill. Even I will not support this Law and be accepted by that amendment that I give for the third time, that one municipality, unlike all these amendments, which are given to create something new. I suggest that one of the municipalities shut down and be on the trail of what some of them have been talking about. That the number that municipalities and cities have built in time means 549, when HDZ went to take care of its fighters and when so many municipalities were founded. So the fighters, the first people in HDZ, when he had no place to put it, then he founded municipalities to get past the elections, buy ficuses, cars, secretaries and everything else that's going on. And that's why it's so well founded, even though in this country that has four and a half million inhabitants, when we look at some kind of developed democracy, one mayor leads. And we are on the trail of the European Charter of Local Self-Government and the part with which we agree in any case in the HNS, which is that we should respect the will of citizens. In one such will, I am a citizen. I've collected the signatures, we've called a referendum and we've singled out the town of Nasice from Požega-Slavon County, and we've gone to Osijek-Baranja, so we at HNS support that we should respect the will of citizens. However, in order to respect the will of the citizens should exist and some preconditions should exist, there should be some criteria and we should respect and respect regional diversity in any case because it is not the same thing to set up a municipality in Dalmatia, Istria, Lika or Slavonia because it has a population of a thousand 300 people or with 3 thousand people in Dalmatia a budget of 5, 10 or 15 times larger than that of such a municipality in Slavonia. In Slavonia there is also a municipality of Gunja that has 5 thousand 300 inhabitants, of which 300 people are employed, others are farmers and you know how many of these municipalities have budgets? A million and 300,000 kuna. This way, if we're going to slip, and now we're here to get to number 560, we should talk about decentralisation in the first place. This decentralization-free sedition, the Ben Equivalence Fund doesn't make any sense. There are municipalities, I'm going to mention one that I'm willing to mention, and I'm saying that one part of it is allocated to Nasic, that's the municipality of Donja Motičina, its budget is 700 thousand kuna. With 700 thousand kuna, believe me, when they pay what they have to pay for capital investments, they're left with 50 thousand kuna. They worked far more while they were a local community. Now there's nothing I can do with that money. We can set up municipalities and we can set them up very simply. Let us also set up municipalities in Zagreb, so I believe that every floor of the hangover will be larger than these municipalities that are 800, 828 or I don't know how many inhabitants and certainly every floor will have a bigger budget than those municipalities that we are now establishing. The last time something like this went to vote, it was political law, and now it's political law because it's not respecting the will of the citizens, but it's a political game, then there weren't enough votes to play this game, now it's probably, by accepting some amendments, that political game rightly played, and now it's gonna be enough time for that law to pass. It's not our goal here to play political games, it's to create a system that can function in quality. It will only work in quality if we respect regional differences. We don't respect them this way. This is political law because it prepares HDZ for elections and then it's normal for those parts where it sees that it has a chance to do a better result then it sets it up, it creates new municipalities, it helps some coalition partners, or, as some people call them, it helps them too to try to place some of their people in a variety of puzzles, in a variety of combinations, and I don't know what level we're going to let it go to. Are we going to allow every village to become a municipality, so that we will not have a chief, but will have a village of chiefs, so that there will be no mayors, and every village will seek it, and it will be a city, and to what level and to what number, will it be a thousand? Now we're at 560, are we going to go to a thousand? Because believe me, as tourism develops, as every village lives better at sea, each section will demand to be a municipality because it is the automatic accommodation of five people or ten people or I don't know how many functions and lives of the budget. Are we going to stop or are we going to share Croatia the way we need it at that time for politics? We at the HNS support all initiatives and respect the will of citizens, but we believe that these wills must be respected by some rules and some criteria, and there can be no criterion of agreement inter-partyly, the satisfaction of some of the country's fairs which are the main ones in the village and they want to be chiefs along the way, it can't be a criterion, especially if they have a direct link to the government or to the central office, so we don't want to support them, and therefore the HNS won't support this Law, I say, and provided you accept my amendment to the Lower Moticiina, and I won't vote for this.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71163	Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71164	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, colleague Kavrljevic. The HDZ of this law that's on the agenda today doesn't do what you said you said you wanted to house HDZ fighters. HDZ's fighters appeared when they were supposed to, HDZ's fighters were chasing when they were supposed to and were creating a Croatian state and today this sovereign democratic Croatian state must respect the will of those you constantly advocated, which is that decentralisation, the will of local self-government, the will of the people on the ground, and on the basis of the will and reasoning of the people of this Law, which is less than we've brought in two and a half years than the coalition government has changed this Law eight times, and count on each bill then by four municipalities, it's 32 municipalities. Therefore, it is not what you say, nor do we want to satisfy the wishes of the country's Bajas. There are those, but that's not the way HDZ's government is leading one responsible policy, even to peasants, not to country boys.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71165	Thank you. For the HSS club, the esteemed representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71166	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The HSS Club always has the same opinion on this subject. I have almost always talked about this subject in the last five years, and today I will speak exactly the same way, and that is that the HSS Club supports all citizens' initiatives based on a valid legal basis and with a valid procedure that requires and prescribes the law. Of course, a valid procedure depends on valid practice. So far, the practice in the Republic of Croatia has rested here since the application of the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government since the beginning of the 93rd Law on almost regularly each year between ten and fifteen new units of local self-government. They were an expression of the will of the citizens, and these citizens were in some way ordering MPs to discuss it and to decide. Of course, there is always an individual way of thinking, that there is also to defend your own views, but I don't think that MPs in particular should be guided by their own impulses or exclusively protect the interests of exactly what they come from because, of course, it wouldn't exactly do exactly what we want to do and it's to protect it in a valid manner and procedure, but also content. For this reason, the HSS Club has always supported and I think that we are also in the past coalition government of the HSS Club, four or five units of local self-government were founded. Some of these now proposed have also initiated the HSS Club and we see nothing questionable or controversial about it. As long as the practice was the same as it was for municipalities established three or four years ago, which is that there are exceptions and the municipality can and were founded municipalities from only one place and not from several places, municipalities that may not have had the overall economic potential to act as independent economic operators were founded, municipalities that could not, in nature, represent an independent municipality. The real question is if we were to ask ourselves today from all the municipalities that we have established whether the team of citizens where new municipalities were founded today's life is better and whether they would call it if they had made progress in their community or not. I think on the basis of experience at least in those units of local self-government that I participated in everywhere that there was an apparent progress in the life of these new municipalities, that there was an accelerated construction of infrastructure, that there was one let's call it an ambitious and euphoric movement of the entire municipality or city and that it was actually easy to understand. Namely, both the reasons for separation and separation are exactly and always sought in an unequal acceptance in financial terms, misunderstanding or lack of the same strategic objectives, and these are clear with political motives which can also be a driver of the establishment of municipalities. Because it's perfectly legitimate that even political motives can run these municipalities. But for me and for us at the HSS Club, it is not a question of how many municipalities of the Republic of Croatia will have, how many municipalities and cities. The question is how will they be organised, the question is how will verticalally and horizontally be set up within these units of local self-government, whether each municipality needs the same instruments to maintain the communal order and, in general, to maintain the public work it does. Could it be content and not form? Which is why and why there would not be as many municipalities in Istria as the people in Istria want to be a municipality, but that the way in which the municipalities will function will be adapted to each municipality in relation to the circumstances they have. Of course, every municipality is not rich and cannot be rich. This is why the state needs to provide structural support for those areas and those municipalities that simply can't do it, but that's where citizens live. We can't say for those citizens that they don't have the same rights as others. The question, therefore, is how we will organise a system of governance in these municipalities and cities. There are experiences in our nearby countries that have a large number of municipalities, almost our local communities are municipalities. It's our neighboring country. However, the governance system in that neighbouring country as regards municipalities and cities is in terms of the financial cost of public services far lower than we do because there is a very simple way of managing not what perhaps we in our philosophy and practice of perfecting and practicing local self-government sometimes do not like to be volunteers without working, that we have a responsibility without necessarily having to be paid and that it is the only source of income. Therefore, the debate on local self-government is a very broad debate, and it should not hurt citizens' initiatives, the initiative of all citizens, because citizens' initiatives still need to be held as something that we are obliged to act on. That is why all the initiatives I have said are acceptable to us at the HSS Club, which are valid in relation to the procedure and in relation to the existing law, which are valid in relation to the interests of the citizens, we will always and will now support them. We will now also support them for the reason why we hold that these initiatives must be supported as long as they work on that model that we are working on in Croatia today, according to the same model that we founded those municipalities from two years ago and those from three and four years ago. So our model and our way of thinking goes in the direction if something goes wrong in local self-government, let's not punish the citizens for it because they are least guilty. Let's not punish those who want to give the initiative. We need to give a lawyer about how we are going to organize a local self-government so that we don't spend as much as we spend, to see if we need heads, whether we need the entire infrastructure of professionals in municipalities that have up to 1,000 residents who don't have more than 4.5 million kunas of income and so on. Of course someone is going to ask a good question where does this uncontrollable community awakening lead us? Of course this is also for a serious debate and that, at the end and at the level of politics but also at the level of civil society and citizens, an answer should be given to what is it that Croatia needs? What model is good for Croatia? But I assure you, even in the smallest municipality with very small resources, where the municipality was founded, a distance from year to three appeared some quality. There's been some quality in comparison to where she's been before. That's, I'm deeply convinced that's the case. Of course, I respect all the problems raised by those concerned. I respect all those who have the right to disagree politically with some municipalities. It is all perfectly legitimate and of course that all political parties have the right to defend and protect their credibility, but also their political will. The economic municipality is also one of the fundamental expressions in the politics and philosophy of the HSS and we have always acted this way. We will, Mr. Secretary of State, with a little amendment that does not concern content, but is of a formal nature. It is about changing the name or addition of the name of the existing municipality, not changing the content or content, but just saying a form which, for which there is no obstacle, supports this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71167	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear representative, Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71168	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Croatia had 102 structural units in 1990, and now here we have 545. It's an increase of 5 times that the municipalities make up 426 and cities, and 123 cities. We now see with this Law that the number of units of local self-government and increase, and regional self-government and increase but certainly my own, and I would like to say that there are certain municipalities that cannot be financed, which survive from the financial budget or the state budget or from the sale of assets. Or what they manage to raise funds into their budgets to share it with pay. However, I would certainly like to support the democratic will of locals such as the city of Zupanja. There are 2,000 and 641 residents. The parish invested large funds for the development of infrastructure and various other facilities of public importance in S.H.I.E.L.D. but the people of S.H.I.E.L.D. decided to continue on their own, and I want them to do so as a municipality and as individuals of success. I would also support the proposal that the island located in our county, which now has the mark of the city to obtain the status of the city and certainly support that St. Sunday, here is the largest municipality as it writes. He deserves it rightly because he has about 20,000 inhabitants. There is a budget of 64 million, and I think that without any modesty, I can say that this is how the development of the Municipality of the Council of Sunday was contributed by our colleague Krono, who was the head of the municipality from 1990 to 2005. From the third, here I am correcting from the third. But long enough to really contribute to this kind of development of the municipality considered amongst them is considered the most developed municipality in the Republic of Croatia. Here I am congratulating all these settlements which, for which, which are closer to me, are known to me. It means S.H.I.E.L.D., Island and St. Sunday.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71169	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71170	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of my debate, I would like to say that I do not support further secession of units of local self-government and do not support the establishment of units of local self-government consisting of several villages or villages not to say street with a total of several hundred inhabitants, even regardless of their connection as a whole. If this law is adopted the negative effects of these changes will be visible very quickly. The bill increases the number of local self-government units by nine new units, and in the Primorje-Gorski County by two new units. The establishment of new units of local self-government raises doubts that their financial potential, as well as the financial potential of decapitated units in the future, will not be sufficient to carry out the tasks that they have been given by law to the team in charge of the more the newly proposed, the newly proposed units have not received an indication from the Ministry of Finance. Further vaccination of units of local self-government also creates a risk of slower economic development of the units that are being split because, as a rule, units with smaller budgets can only be provided with additional funding through various support from the county or state budget, which is inevitably reflected in other local self-government units. The framework programme of decentralisation during this term of office provides for the finding of the mode of compulsory association of cities and municipalities of insufficient financial potential in order to create a basis for them to successfully carry out jobs and projects of common interest beyond their individual financial opportunities. On the contrary, this Law establishes new units without the consent of the former units to which they belonged. What's more, their opinion isn't even required. The County Assembly’s observation in Article 31 is not binding, so it is neither relevant nor necessary even though changes are taking place in its territory. Article 32 The Government of the Republic of Croatia will issue or deny the prior consent of each initiative to establish a new unit, depending on the assessment of the justification of the initiative itself, but it is not stated on the basis of which criteria this assessment of justification will be carried out. It is not specifically provided for by the Ministry of Finance for the proposal of a source of funding for all its obligations or their financial potential. The practical example of such practice is already taking place in this Bill Proposal in Article 11. It envisions the establishment of the Vinodol municipality by detachment from the current Vinodol municipality despite negative and arguments of the backed-up demonstration of the Primorje-Goran County Assembly. Therefore, against the establishment of the Municipality of Vinodol, the Council of the Vinodol Municipality and the County Assembly was declared to be in the light of the real situation on the ground and the arguments set out in the argument, which relate to the non-compliance with the legal procedure and which is much more important by the withdrawal of the Vinodol Municipality, it is subject to further survival because of the drastic financial and economic weakness. And what do we get? The situation that due to the reduction of economic power in the future is likely to lead to the disintegration of the Vinodol municipality into another unit of local self-government, perhaps in the Vinodol municipality. So what do we get? We will get the same thing as we do today, but with another name and possibly another ruling set at the head of the unit, that is, election engineering, as counterpart Cain said earlier. I guess it's a recipe how to transfer power from national to local level. In fact, this solution points to a new kind of centralisation of the state, as it turns out that the entire territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia is being decided exclusively on Mark's square number 2. If moreover, the known principles of similarity turn out to be that the ruling party or coalition at the state level within units of local or regional self-government in which local elections are lost will be able to establish a new local unit consisting of a place, i.e. a village in which the party or coalition has received majority voter support, regardless of the objective possibilities and resources of such formation. As a reason for the adoption of the laws under emergency procedure, citizens' express will to establish new municipalities and regional changes, and this is undermining particularly important state reasons. However, if we remember that individuals of the initiative are several years old, while at the same time some other initiatives without reason are being rejected, it is obvious that particularly important state reasons do not exist, the more local elections took place just over a year ago. An example of rejection of citizens' will without justification is another example from the Primorje-Gorski County. An initiative for the establishment of the Kukuljanovo Municipality, detached from the City of Bakar. The initiative was discussed at a meeting of the government on March 3rd last year and even included in the bill, but before the final reference to the parliamentary procedure, it gave up for never reasoned reasons. Given the fact that all of us here have been chosen by the will of citizens as their mediators through which they refer their proposals and demands to the highest state bodies to decide despite our personal attitude against further secluding units of local self-government, I must respect the will of the citizens of Kukuljanov and recommend an amendment to the establishment of their municipality. I must point out here that there is a positive view of the City Council of Bakra that the County Assembly gave a negative opinion and I particularly point out that the initiative was signed by 544 of 912 citizens to what this municipality would count, so 60% of the total population. By respecting this argument as the most important in making the final decision on the fate of their initiative, the government would demonstrate that respect for its own, it would show respect for its own reasons for citizens, its own reasoning of the law on respecting the will of citizens. Also in the introduction of a debate on this law last year, it was said that changes to the name of the settlement were being introduced where the name changed, erasing the name, or settlements that ceased to exist as an independent and introduced new settlements that were created in the meantime as independent settlements. If it wanted to be updated, why didn't it happen? For example, in the Primorje-Gorski County, we have a settlement called Bakar Bio within the town of Bakar. I wonder where the rest of Bakar is. There are also dozens of settlements missing right in the Vindol municipality. How? Whose decision? What procedure? It seems to have been done because last year, it was not easy to tell where the settlement belonged, so between the two readings of the law, it was simply wiped out literally everything. Since then, however, more than a year has passed, and deleted settlements remain in the land of Neverland. There are such cases in other counties, such as Kraj Gornji, the northern part of the Dubravica municipality in Zagreb County. The rest of the Upper End of course is nowhere, and many settlements are divided between two units of local self-government like Berlin before the fall of the wall. I want to give you another detail. By establishing new municipalities and calling elections in them, the existing representative bodies in the defiled units lose legitimacy, especially with respect to units where a large percentage of the population is singled out, such as Funta, where 31% is singled out, Vinodol where 50% or Vrsi is singled out by as many as 52% of the residents. Because of all the things I've been called here in this form, I won't be able to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71171	Thank you. The words have an esteemed representative, Lino Cervar. Somewhere in the hall. I'm sorry, Replic, the esteemed representative Antešić. We're a little tired.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71172	Thank you very much. Speaking about this, I would like to stress once again the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the initiative to separate Tar Vabriga Municipality from the city of Poreč from the first of April 2004. I quote Dr Ivo Sanader, president of the government who says: "The government of the Republic of Croatia points out that it opposes the establishment of new municipalities, since it believes that the reduced municipalities of insufficient financial potential will not be able to carry out the tasks planned to be transferred to them by decentralisation.". So, in 2004. Here, 2004. On 1 April, the opinion was negative. Today, here it is today, two years ago, after which the opinion is positive and included in the legal procedure. Can you guys explain to me what this is about? I don't understand it at all. How can a credible Prime Minister today have one opinion on the same thing, another opinion tomorrow? It's absolutely incomprehensible to me. So please try to explain it to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71173	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71174	Well, in this reply to the replica, I can only say, as I mentioned earlier when I spoke about this loan for the completion of the Rijeka-Zagreb highway that this government has taken on a whole series of examples of certain moves that it has later or made, made certain decisions that it later made, made various moves that it has never made in practice. Well, one of those, I guess, is this one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71175	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71176	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Up until now, Vukovar-Srijem County has had four cities, Vukovar, Vinkovci, County and County are 26 municipalities. This Final Proposal for the Law on County, City and Municipal Areas will continue to include 26 municipalities in the county because Stitar is proposed as a new municipality, and the county would receive the fifth city, the town of Otok. I support the proposal for the island to become the fifth city in Vukovar-Srijem County, but I also support the separation of the municipality of synerar from the town of Župina. Both are the will of citizens such as the will of the citizens of the town of Otok, as well as of the entire county of Vukovar-Srijem for the formation of the town of Otok, so is the will of the citizens of Šitara for the separation from Župa, and of course the citizens of the city of Župa. I'll explain all of this with a few of my thoughts. The process of urbanisation in Croatia is significantly increasing and the percentage of the city's population is gradually increasing. Urbanisation by its definition involves the development of cities and the increase in the number of urban populations, as well as the transformation of rural settlements into urban and urban lifestyles. The transformation of the village settlement is especially visible in the Municipality of Otok. In the very place of the Island in Vukovar-Srijem County, which in every respect accepted the characteristics of the city and the city's lifestyle. The island municipality, consisting of towns of Otok and Komletci with slightly less than 8,000 inhabitants, is one such social community that has been experienced thanks to the efforts of generations, the transformation of the population, the progress of the economy, the rise of general standards and the high urbanisation of its settlements. In 1873, the town of Otok was mentioned in 1333 and this place had the status of municipality and administrative functions. The island takes up the central geographical and geo-transport and administrative administrative position located in the heart of Vukovar-Srijem County in the vicinity of four cities of the county. The island is a specific place that has its recognizable natural wealth of national importance, the oak forest of the ponds, which form an integral part of the national ecological core, protected landscape along the waterway of resources, fertile ornaments, but also cultural and social wealth. It also boasts the most cultural monument unique in this part of Europe and has a number of tourist potentials that it develops within the tourist community. The biggest wealth of this area is a people who have moved to the area from Dalmatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, like and other Croatian parts, enriching even more Slavonic shocking mentality and general social and cultural life during rich history. Volunteering and working through 60 different associations, clubs, societies and communities. A rich social life was also the starting point for the printing of the island list, a monthbook that has been regularly released for the seventh year. During the Homeland War, 75 defenders died in the municipality, and significant material damage was suffered. Despite the casualties, the city’s outlines have been successfully restored and built up communal infrastructure. A new economic zone is being built in the Island which, of course, aims to create new jobs, thus guaranteeing the rest of the population in these areas. I hope that we will add the status of the city to the natural, social and all kinds of wealth of our Slavonian Island and to an even greater extent interest potential investors in the island resources. So the logical sequence of conditions was the launch of the procedure for establishing the Municipality of Island for the acquisition of the status of the city, which in the form of the Final Proposal of the Law on Countys, Cities and Cities already adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Committee for Local and Regional Self-Government, and I hope that this Croatian Parliament will, to the joy of our islanders, also confirm this and thus meet the will of the citizens to whom we are all often called together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71177	Replica, the esteemed representative Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71178	Here's an esteemed colleague on several occasions you're talking about the will of the citizens. Now I'm asking a question. Does the opinion of the city council, municipal council and the opinion of the county council represent the will of citizens? Does it represent the will of the citizens? We have a case in the Municipality of Vinodolska where the opinion of the municipal council and the opinion of the County Assembly in which the Vinodolska Municipality exists is negative. Explained negatively. Why? Because it is simple and precise, the Municipality of Vinodolska piti, and of that we are now doing two misery, amputating 50% of the political body from that municipality to a new municipality which, and we know on whose initiative, is on the initiative of the local HDZ sheriff and we want to make one no more electoral than actually legal engineering to get another enclave of this HDZ in the area. And in what way, then, how do you explain that will to the citizens? Does the municipal council and the county assembly not represent the will of the citizens? Whose will do they represent?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71179	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71180	I don't know if you've listened to me, I've talked about the will of the people of the island, the will of the locals, the will of the inhabitants of the County of Vukovar-Srijem and the will of the shields from the parish and the citizens of the parish, and I said that it's an undivided desire of the island's locals, so it's nothing, it's not disputed that all the islanders want the status of the city, that all residents of the Vukovar-Srijem County think and want the island to become a city, because we all think and want to believe that the island is already a city.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71181	Replica, the esteemed representative Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71182	So here I support the arguments of my colleague, Culka, and I really don't mind, and here I support the island and Kutjevo to be a city and not the municipalities, I'm willing to vote for it, because that's what the inhabitants of these municipalities are for, that's why, that's what the county council is for. But here you have an attempt which will be realized by most votes here to tear the Vinodolska municipality apart and take away over 50% of its body, past the municipal council's will, beyond the will of the county council. An ideal example of respect for the will of citizens, an ideal example of disrespecting the will of citizens. It's quite a coincidence in the Municipality of Vinodolski is in power of the SDP and you have now created new ones, here I am glad that the secretary of state came and he explained it to me. I don't get it in my head. Maybe it's a late hour. Which is why such violence is committed first by over-the-counter citizens, which in itself is unnatural. And secondly, we can wrap it up where we want the cellophane, it's about pure politics, it's about actually denying the will that was in the elections, and it's about creating a new, here, community beyond the will of those who live there. If that's the case, it's called political violence and no different. That's how I see it. All the honor of this proposal you're talking about, I'm willing to raise both my hands for him, and for this one I'm not. He's illogical, abnormal. He's out of his mind. Any party you were, it's abnormal.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71183	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71184	So here's what I'm going to tell you in the island community, if it were to overlap and make it into 10 municipalities, all 10 municipalities would win HDZ again. This doesn't change that. In the municipality of Island, it is exclusively about the will of citizens, the will of citizens who want the status of the city and who get it with this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71185	So the equivalent of that and in this other municipality will the SDP win? ... When you're opposed to one. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Dear Representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71186	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. I'll just say a few words why I think an island middle like Rab. I don't mean the island in Slavonia, and here's what my colleague Jurjevic said. I'm in, I respect the will, and for that I am. Why one island center, a city of Rab that boasts the status of the city for 2,000 and 16 years. So, the city of Rab is 2,000 and 16 years has the status of so city and except for 6 months in its long history, and that in 1938 when for the same reason as today was an attempt to make another, therefore, that it should be divided. The whole long time he's a unique unit, a self-government unit and he's so built. The city of Rab, i.e. it still covers the entire area of the island of Rab with some belonging islands and it is built airy. He can't be shared. He can amputate. Part of it can be amputated. He's a center, and they're taking the road from the center to all the settlements. And now a settlement, Lopar, wants to separate into the municipality and that is a legitimate and legal requirement. He is how things are being traced to the adoption of the City, or the island of Rab, will now have 2 units. It will be the City of Rab, or whatever remains will be the City of Rab, and this will be the municipality of Lopar. Why does it come to that? It comes to this because a group of ambitious boys want to be head of the municipalities, and they get the circumstances, the chief one wants to be head of the municipality, and I get the circumstances in the pre-election campaign the prime minister was visiting one of them and was well hosted and promised to get the municipality of Lopar. And that promise is now coming true, and this whole law is actually the result. And here, I'm responsible for that, I know what I'm saying. And there's no economic or historical or sociological or any reason to form, I'm speaking now of the Lopar municipality except for what I said. And that's why I like to call things what they are and that's it. So the Loper municipality will emerge as a result of an agreement with an election campaign of HDZ on the island of Rab. And then, as a matter of fact, as a bit of a junta, to put it that way, the Vinodolska municipality, because there is the same local HDZ, as someone likes to call it, let's just say, a man who has the same approval as the head of the municipality. Well, now we're going to the Vinodolsk municipality, which I don't know if you guys know what this is about. The Vinodolska municipality is the one behind Crikvenica and Novi Vinodolski, the valley that includes Bribery, Grižane and that poor village. In all, the municipality has 3 and a half thousand inhabitants, with a budget of several million kunas. And now we're going to turn that misery into two miserys. That's why some guys would be like this, so they'd call themselves community chiefs. And clearly, we know what color they are. They're afraid to know what color political. And that's it. It means decentralisation, it's satisfying the people's will, it's satisfying municipal policy, social, culture, sports and all that's involved. A special story is also a municipality that is proposed by Tervis from the municipality, from the town of Pazin. I mean, that's pure nakarada. If you look at the map of the city of Pazin and what's going on there, what's it like, that enclaves there. Well, San Marino is a baby compared to Italy. In fact, within one municipality, an enclave is created that we know which initiative comes from which circles. So I'm surprised, I'm surprised at the government, I'm not surprised to see Mr. Palaric because he's an officer who has to do what he's told or else he'll do something else, I totally understand him, but I'm surprised the government is under the influence of such initiatives that don't have any legitimate logic. I'm narrowly speaking to me this initiative in Lopar is politically appropriate. However, I'm going to capitalize her very well, I assure you, but there's no logic, I don't slave it, but I know, I've been mayor of the town of Rab, I know what it means, I know how much money was invested in that settlement, I've always had problems in other settlements because I've been accused of investing the most funds just in Lopar village and now that the entire infrastructure is finished and when Lopar's developed, now you'll have a couple of guys, or some of them want him, pardoned him to be the head of the municipality. Well, let's do it, though. I congratulate you on that, but I assure you that's not good. It doesn't lead to progress, it doesn't lead to anything good but simply siphoning and passing these initiatives off the ground that have no excuse except for the purely political political and subsistence of these local boys. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71187	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71188	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleague, I think it's here to replicate for a number of reasons. One reason I think it is unacceptable and one part of our citizens is to call certain places and keep repeating misery and only misery and it will be even more misery I think that as responsible representatives we cannot give such qualifications to anyone especially when such qualifications come from a party that allegedly favours people, for ordinary people. It's on the one hand, and now we're going a little bit on the scale of things, and it's this debate that's purely narrow from your visor of the island and the place of Lopara, and you can't blame the government, and I also have certain observations about whether this law is right, whether we need so many municipalities, etc., but accusing the government of not respecting the will of citizens and that it's just manipulation, that it's just politics, it's totally unacceptable. We have examples from our midst, here's an example of Murter Island. The island of Murter, the municipality of Tisno was once the seat of the municipality where the municipality was, today's municipality of Tisno, the municipality of Pirovac and the municipality of Murter itself, and the will of the citizens was even though we were, i.e. HDZ had local authority, had power in the municipality of Tisno, but normally gave consent and respected the wish of a part of the island, is the same picture of the island that wanted to be singled out in the municipality of Murter, and the fact is that, the Municipality of Murter, even there HDZ is not in power. The same case is, here we now have with the Municipality of Tribunj which wants to be singled out, the place of Tribunj from the municipality, or the City of Vodice. Now that's another question. Whether it is justified economically or not, but the fact that this government and HDZ policy were those that respected the will of citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71189	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71190	... or listened, and I think that... [[Specially enabled.]] One budget, and now we're going to turn that budget misery into two miserys. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] But when it comes to the will of the citizens, does he have the right to, for example, the right to. This part from which the Municipality of Vinodolska is separated, so does the part that remains have any rights, do these citizens who remain have any right to say anything about it? So, they amputate half the territory, they remain the same government, do they have any rights or do they only have the rights of these sheriffs who want their territory, want to be head of the municipality? So they're the only ones with rights, and that half of the rest of the citizens, they don't have any rights to you. So that's the will of the citizens, only this part, and this part is not entirely.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71191	Honorable representative of the Poirot, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71192	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So esteemed counterpart Antesic said very vividly that the bill said that another Lopar municipality would be created in the territory of the island of Rab, if so, that it would capitalise very well. I believe he had just considered that in the local elections that part of the island of Rab might have been contrary to the vote of what was on the rest of Rab's territory. Is that so and if that is the case, we really need to see whether it is the will of the citizens or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71193	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71194	So if we're talking about the will of the citizens of the island of Rab clearly in, in fact, it's never really a real statement of the will of the citizens carried out. Look, the Lopar Municipality initiative lasted 22 months, so almost two years, here and now, without this initiative being refreshed in any way, so without realising what the people want, or what the citizens want, this initiative is going back in the process. I'm not sure I know how many seven hundred signatures are collected to make everyone think the same thing today, or I know which way the signatures are collected. I know very well that as it turned out to be a survey of citizens by house and collecting signatures, you are for this, if you don't know what's going to happen, etc. That is why I also said on behalf of the club that there is a need to clearly prescribe ways of objectively declaring citizens that they really get the will of citizens because this Law does not regulate and it leaves exactly the possibility of manipulating certain political groups or some others so that they can manipulate depending on the situation as it suits them.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71195	Replica, distinguished representative Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71196	Mr. President! Col. Antesic, although you have already disproved Mr. Jozi Topić that you have not spoken for a part of our territory of misery. There is no territory in the Republic of Croatia that you can call misery for any reason even when it is not economically developed and when unfortunately there is not much world as much as we want. Surely you have the right not to allow or oppose the creation of a large number of local units in the territory of the Republic of Croatia but in one more appropriate way. I'm afraid I don't know that part of a good country like you, I've been through that area twice, it's beautiful and Birber is just as beautiful so maybe with his beauty he'll contribute these people to create the possibility of survival and the lives of those people and in that area. However, you cited another reason for the creation of a new municipality because the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia was welcomed, because of one hospitality in a small municipality, or not yet in a small town. That's certainly not the reason. I told you that at the time of the coalition government, this law changed eight times. I said thirty-two municipalities were established. In four years, a coalition government was established thirty-seven municipalities, so Prime Minister Racan was received thirty-seven times well and ate lamb.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71197	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71198	Well, well-respected and handsome colleagues, you, too, have confirmed to me that we are talking about the valley of Vindol, I've almost walked her all the way and I know very well what I'm talking about. And it's not good when you twist my words in a way that they make other sense. I repeat once again that the budget of the Vinodolski municipality is a misery and it cannot meet the needs of citizens living in the area and now we will not increase, so now with this proposal we will not increase the revenues of that municipality but we will increase the expenditure fatly. So now there's going to be another Mr. Chief, I don't know what else you need and the citizens will have their own community and they'll be happy. And it's nice and it's a fortune. And it's exactly what I'm going to do again. That's right, that's why this procedure for the Lopar municipality went here now before the Parliament for exactly what I mentioned at the beginning and now I confirm.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71199	Thank you. Replicated representative Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71200	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a fellow Antesic when I look at how parts of the municipalities and cities are cut off, and how illogically they skip certain settlements like that in the case of Pazina and the Municipality of Trviž, so I suggest you try to persuade the locals there to accept this village of Seon which I would like to separate from the Municipality of Motičina, so that we try to attach it to the city of Rab so you don't lose it, and I trust you, I will make the people of Seone very simply agree to it because you certainly have a higher budget than 800,000 kuna, what is their budget and the municipality of Donja Moticina in which they are presently located. Well, here I'd ask you to do the next one if we can't do it now, my amendment won't go away, but in six months we'll put a new proposal in the process and we'll try to attach the Seona settlement to the city of Rab.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71201	Reply to the replica, respected representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71202	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Kapraljevic, your initiative is certainly commendable and I promise to take it seriously, but I would have one counter-proposal that would be as good if not even better. I think it would be a very convenient settlement around the administrative building of INA so let it include one twenty houses around to still turn into a municipality, separate from the town of Zagreb and turn into a municipality. And I think that this community would be one of the richest municipalities in Europe. So why don't we do it? So those residents who are, say, let them have five hundred inhabitants, so they will have such a budget; they will live in such prosperity that they will not actually know where with money. Well, why wouldn't that be wonderful? What isn't a better idea than the one you said?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71203	Honorable representative Anton Perusko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71204	Thank you. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate! I would like to remind you that when we include this item of the agenda in the current session of the Croatian Assembly on behalf of the SDP Club, we asked that the urgency of the procedure be removed from this proposal and I think it was only reasonable and I would say the resolution proposal and that it should be respected because there is really no reason for this law to be passed by emergency procedure. The promoter could open a debate in this assembly as he opened, could listen to clubs, could listen to MPs, conduct additional consultations and possibly review some of the proposals included in this final draft law and probably achieve a greater agreement when adopting this law. The Proposer calls for Article 159 of the Rules of Procedure and all that he has given in the light of the reasons for the adoption of this emergency procedure is, in fact, entirely contrary to Article 159 and this argument cannot be accepted in any case. In addition, the promoter says that they have taken all the proposals and all the initiatives that have come from the field so far and which have had the prescribed procedure I would argue that this is really not true and at least I know that from the Istrian County where I came from was also a proposal to form a new municipality of Stinjan. What do I think about staying for me? I'm not forced to plead now. And I know it was a proposal for the Kukuljanovo municipality. Therefore, the argument that all proposals are taken cannot stand in any way. I remember in 1993 when, as we said from 132 municipalities that then existed in Croatia, a new territorial structure was first established in the Republic of Croatia with over 500 units of local and regional self-government and should be said that indeed the law has received some very positive results. There were also negative examples, examples of municipalities that were their own purpose and could in no way be justified. We also know when, how then the political map of Croatia was drawn. I know specifically from the Istrian County, for example, in the municipality of Rasa two settlements which are, one enclave attached to the municipality of Rasa and really belong to the city of Labin. These settlements cannot even be reached without crossing the road across the area of the city of Labin. Okay, these are no limits, however, but this suggests that the political map of Croatia was then drawn clearly with the suggestion of certain party members who were then in power, and it is known which party was in power. And after that, other initiatives followed, but always in the direction of creating new municipalities, new cities, and never stopping the process. I know it's not even possible to stop it. I know that it is necessary to respect the will of the citizens and I am in favour of respecting that will of the citizens, but clearly, the pre-arranged and defined criteria that must be respected, and in this proposal which is today ahead of us and which is likely to be adopted by the majority, it is obvious that these criteria were not respected but that it was a political law and I do not know what has been the rush to really bring it in when it comes to regular local elections over 3 years. And now you see it happens to be in Article 33. The final proposal of this law provides for the elections to be held within 120 days in those units created by the separation of existing ones, and what counterparts Antesic and other colleagues pointed out in the debate is some municipalities such as the Vinodol Municipality, and then the city of Nin and Funtana in some way where almost half of the political body or more than half of the political body is separated but the elections are foreseen under Article 33 of this Act to be held only in these newly established let's tell the units of local self-government rather than... And it's not just good because certainly the political structure has changed and if it goes to the election in the newly created then it's inevitable for me to go to the elections and in the rest and then I'm afraid that I would lose my colleague Antesic, who in these re-elections would be mayor again, and then we'd split up. [[The speaker is not understood because of the interference in the video.]] This is what it looks like he's staying with me for the rest of this term. Always referring to the will of the citizens, I would like to remind you that in April 2004, as the SDP Club, we were directed to this Assembly for the establishment of the Tar-Vabriga municipality. The municipalities that had a number of signatures of the electoral body, which had a positive opinion of the City Council of Poreč, which had a positive opinion of the County Assembly. Which had a projection of the budget then with about 8 million kuna and which had confirmation of the Ministry of Finance. But then when all these criteria were met, the will of the citizens was not respected, and when it was easy then and what I support could have been voted on by that new municipality and I advocated this individual approach where all the criteria were met and where it is justified to really vote, and then I will vote according to the vote of the HDZ Club, but not in this way what our people say we would make a steak to kill a cow. But then the same interpretation is also about the municipality of Funtana. I don't mind. But what the Prime Minister is then in the obvious, he signed, of course, says: "The government of the Republic of Croatia points out that in principle it opposes the establishment of new municipalities, since it believes that the depreciated municipalities of insufficient financial potential will not be able to carry out the tasks planned for them by decentralisation." And you see that I am aware that there will be a difficulty in eliminating the existing units of local and regional self-government because I know the worst is having it and not having it. But do we really have to ask ourselves responsibly how far can this process go? And what's happening now is in the area of Istria, Trvij, the municipality of Trvij. Well, they've already explained it. Well, really, if it wasn't tragic, it'd be funny. Whatever it is... So I'm asking you what we're doing? [[The speaker is not understood because of the forest in the video.]] I mean, it really doesn't lead to anything, and I'm asking you of all the criteria that the law prescribes, and of all the conditions of this community, this place doesn't have one, it has two. One thing is that the centre of the parish and the other is the head of the initiative board of the president of the Croatian Catholic Youth who, by the way, lives in Zagreb. And there are no other criteria for this municipality with a million kuna budget. So we really have to wonder where it's going and what it's for? Well, it's neither HDZ nor SDP. It's really something that's unnatural. ... The tissue of the town of Pazina, in the explanation is given to be ripped away. [[The speaker is not understood because of the forest in the video.]] And I think I'm sorry I can't vote for this bill. What I cannot, for example, speak for my county to vote for, for the municipality of Tarvabrig and Funtan for the sake of this Trviž and the situations which have been laid down in this Bill, and if it were possible for me, it would be best to vote individually for each proposal because there are indeed justified requirements, requirements that have all the elements to have and which are justified. And it's no good for you, these initiatives and that will for citizens to deny it, but really in these absurd situations, all the absurdity of access to law-making is shown in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71205	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71206	Oh, I'm correcting my colleague, Peru, that Rasha is a small municipality. It has more seashore than the whole of Slovenia. It is therefore not a small municipality [[- Insect: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71207	Replica, the esteemed representative of Walter Poirot.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71208	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'm glad that my colleague, Perusko, with Stinjan and Kukuljanovo, is listed and discussed that they had some initiatives but that they were not included in this proposal as such. But I'm glad to hear more about Santa Marina, Ravni, Drenja and Blacks that are still '93. A year, which is '93. for another day, the initiative to be the City of Labin because they are an integral part of the City of Labin, and they then fell under this strange decision to the Municipality of Rasa which, of course, cannot serve those parts of its municipality in any way.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71209	Replicate response, the esteemed representative Antun Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71210	Well, there's no need for me to respond to the replica, but Mr. Representative of my colleague, Poirot, has actually confirmed what I was saying. And he knows just as much as I do why and what just happened to those two settlements that are unnaturally under the territory of the Raša Municipality instead of being natural in the city of Labin. But he knows exactly as much as I do what people in these settlements are and what influence they had in the formation of territorial in the area of Istria... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71211	Honorable representative of Dorotea Pesic Bukovac. She's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71212	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I didn't expect to be in line so soon. And I apologize to the Secretary of State for harassing him so deeply at night with these most important issues, but we have to do our part of the work. Unlike my predecessors, I won't talk about ending municipalities, cities, new status. Because my Međimurje County doesn't change anything and no matter how we end it in history, or now whoever ended it would never have won the election, so probably that's why HDZ now didn't propose new municipalities or ending up in Međimurje, because it never produced results. It is part of the law that speaks of resolving possible disputes and conditions that must be met in order for some initiative to be valid. This Regulation shall enter The law stipulates that initiatives to change borders, divorces or the composition of new local marriages should have a citizens' opinion previously obtained. Now I didn't quite understand whether the opinion was supplied with carded paper, nylon bags, buckets, or at ransom stations. Previously on "Citizens": Croatia, the Republic of Croatia has a referendum law. In the Law on Local Self-Government, we have a category of advisory referendum and binding referendum. As an important element of citizens' decision-making directly, not indirectly but directly, citizens' decision-making. And now that we come to an area that happens once in 50 years or 100 years, when we create new municipalities, we rip up municipalities, we attach to municipalities, we separate municipalities and cities. Instead of using the referendum institute, we invent a new category that does not exist anywhere but in this law, procurement and citizens' opinion. A year and a few days ago, I had an amendment, and I gave it back to make it a referendum. Everything else is falsifying the will of the citizens. I'm sorry, if someone comes in with a pair of scissors and signs to the community, and they can come in because there's no form, there's no binding form, it's not for serious debate. Why don't we confess and introduce here where such big decisions are made that, in accordance with the Law on Local Self-Government and the Law on Referendum, we use this mechanism. But when it comes to the referendum, there is no room for manoeuvre, and that is probably why the government rejected these amendments, and I'm afraid it will now. Articles 27 and 29 refer to the right of reference, i.e. the jurisdiction to settle border disputes. And now look, when the deadlines are to appeal and object, then it says that the complaint can go within 30 days of the first decision. And then it's government on the move. And now that the government is supposed to make a decision, there are no more deadlines. If we restrict the municipality's right to appeal or address the government within 30 days, why don't we tell the government that within 90 days it has to make a decision, 120 days here we go, 120. Nowhere else, look, in any other regulation and in law, we have no situation that the second-degree procedure is not prescribed when it has to be completed. Here we keep avoiding the deadlines within which the government must make the final decision to know who it belongs to, where it is, what is the limit. When we discussed this on my proposal to amend the law, the government then said in its statement that there are very few remaining border disputes. That's when I voiced my suspicions about my data, that information that it was true. Then reading further there are some disputes that are being conducted back in '93. years that haven't been solved yet. Not to mention the property dispute, the division after the breakup of the marriage. What will happen in newly formed municipalities for joint acquired assets? If not divided, see Articles 27, 28, 29. We're gonna have 10 more years of arguing about it. You think these, creating new municipalities won't create a problem in the division of the assets of the common gain? That these are small values of property? And precisely because I was suggesting that we would create new municipalities and cities, share them, and that there would be a problem of borders again, and borders, if they were clear limits of these newly created municipalities. Are you sure there won't be any border disputes? And during the formation of every new municipality and city, a new Pandura box of borders and division of property opens up. And we will never be finished until we say that we will no longer create new units of local and regional self-government. However, there is no law of deadlines. Why are there no deadlines to settle the dispute? So when uncertainty, when the one who has to make the final decision doesn't make it, you're always addicted to that political will. And the political will, the dependence on political will, makes you obedient, or at least peaceful if I don't obey. And that's probably why you always say no. This is the same in Article 37 where there is no time limit when a decision has to be made. So never deadlines for making decisions. I'll be back in a little while for the referendum. There are rare cases when a referendum is used as an institute for direct citizens' decision. They're legally designed for less than this. How many of those 37 new municipalities and cities that Mrs Babic mentioned in the previous term and these 10 now and another hundred to 2000 would have been established if we had had a referendum as a way of expressing citizens, locals. Maybe 10% of it. Maybe 10% of it. If we are for the issue of decentralisation to mean that such things are decided by citizens, if we want to hear their opinion, then it's not getting opinions, it's a referendum. We've legalized him as a direct decision of the citizens. We didn't put it in the jurisdiction of the representative body. We didn't give the authority of the representative body. We're not referring to a representative body right now, because we're obliging it to have citizens' opinions. And I asked, the opinion of the citizens who are bound by the representative body is obtained in a referendum. The alliance's gone, the parties shouldn't be ordered, so it's a referendum. That is why I want to believe, and this announcement of the further decentralisation that the Government has repeatedly announced, that this time all the reasons for the Government to accept these four amendments will be fulfilled, and that this will make the law far more quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71213	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71214	Thank you very much. Well, look, fellow Lesar, you've just guessed the point. So the way you collect opinions is completely undefined, that's one such virtual term, so the opinion is what you said can be collected in various ways, right? And why is it left like that? Why do you think he's leaving? So because in such a way, certain political groups can be manipulated when something is left undefined, then it can be beautifully laid as a basis for manipulation. Why don't the legislator define an advisory referendum, a way or any other way, gather opinions in such a size and we have a clearly defined situation. Keep going, deadlines. You were talking about deadlines. Well, look, we have initiatives in this bill that are three months old and over seven years old. So how much, is it theoretically possible for Mr. Secretary of State to respond, is it theoretically possible for an initiative after 25 years to come into law here in the procedure. It's possible on this proposal. So there are no restrictions. Well, that's nakarada. So how come you don't understand that, that you should then define these things in law? We can't pass the law so that we can mix it up and implement it the way it suits us at a certain point. So let's define some things. And secondly, isn't it important that those citizens who amputate a part of the territory into a new... Well, that's what matters, I guess, and that's what citizens think. ... [[You don't understand.]] I didn't hear what you said. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71215	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71216	Thank you very much. After both these replicas and following before the debate, I am sure that the vast majority will support my amendments concerning the referendum and the introduction of deadlines and that this will significantly improve the content of this law. And fellow Antešić as to manipulation, you are convinced that it is because of the possibility of manipulation. Here I want to convince you that I don't believe at all that this is what this is about, but that the legislator has been subdued by a mistake, which is why such a bill came and not because of the possibility of manipulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71217	Next replica, Honored Representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71218	Thank you, Mr. President. So here I have to replicate to my colleague, Lesar, because there are some cities that have taken it out of some other places where they were like Najsica, it was in the County of Pozeko-Slavonski to solve it with a referendum. The referendum is with 87% for citizens who said they wanted to get out of the Požega-Slavon County and we did it this way as you suggest. However, according to me and this when 303 residents of 340 who are registered in the electoral list, when they sign a petition bearing the name - List of residents with the right to vote of the town of Seana who agree to the detachment of the municipality of Don Moticin, which prove their signature and prove it, means 303 of the 340 is not almost the same as the referendum, and in any case I believe that this part you said should probably be recognized and installed in this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71219	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71220	I have to admit, for this referendum in Nasice, I didn't know, and I'm surprised how those who propose prize winners for various local self-governments didn't see it, so they suggested for... And let's clear this lower moticina. [[You don't understand.]] As you will not take these in Rab, I promise you, I will arrange, we will attach you to Saint Martin at Mura and you will have a new bridge to Slovenia immediately.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71221	Wall bridge. ... What about the building bridge? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Dear Representative Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71222	Give up or not, the question is now. And yet I want to say a few thoughts, not to challenge the right to create new municipalities, but I would really like to draw attention to some new moments and new needs in the development of society. I would like to stress that there is no doubt that the adoption of laws on districts, cities and municipalities has been a major hit and a major step because, in fact, by passing this law, a certain unit of local self-government has done more in recent years than in the past decades in the construction of infrastructure, economic zones, and ecology, etc. But I don't know why this name is the final bill when we don't really solve anything here that we haven't done a dozen times before by changing the existing law, so we're just starting new municipalities. Now, if we keep in mind that there was a lot of praise and criticism on this law, and the majority of criticism was actually about too many units of local self-government, given the size of the country and the number of inhabitants. So we're by that I'd say a kind of recorder because we have over 550 units of local self-government, and already we have and it's not the first time that we've made some units count and less than 200 inhabitants. One thing I'm interested in is why this House can never pass a single initiative when, in accordance with the law, one unit of local self-government is also seeking its removal and accession to another unit of local self-government. For alone, therefore, is aware that neither has financial resources nor personnel. It happens several times that such an initiative, unfortunately, cannot pass in this House, is never the right time. Yesterday there were one reasons, today there are other reasons. But, therefore, to this justified accession and to that being some new indication, that we simply say that some units, let's say, of the citizens, wanted to join the City of Vrlica by the will of their citizens. So, a municipality that never existed in history. It only existed because of some circumstances before and after the Homeland War. So she is aware, too, it is not in the interest of her citizens, but it is obvious that in this House, therefore, neither they nor we today make such a decision because it is not usually the vote. And now what, it's clear to everyone that everything has to have some sort of measure and the number of units of local self-government. Otherwise, this, therefore, good practice that we have had lately will turn into its opposite because too many units of local self-government are actually becoming more and more the brakes of the country's development. This is best seen when it comes to the development and construction of entrepreneurship zones. There is now almost no unit of local self-government that has not foreseen an economic zone in its spatial plan. You have such an absurdity that we have now and from there it comes to have over 500 requests to set up entrepreneurship zones. I am telling you that Croatia neither requires 500 entrepreneurial zones nor needs 550 units of local self-government. The units of local self-government, let me put it this way, should be halved, and the entrepreneurship zones, I think it would be enough to build them 150 or 200 in Croatia. Why am I saying this? So I'm saying this because all these local self-government units, which eventually work in a few kilometers, are going to come to the Ministry of Economy and Entrepreneurship looking for money to equip the infrastructures of these municipal zones, and in fact these zones will never live, and the state is going to waste a huge amount of money that won't give what we all expect from it. This bill that is most likely to establish nine new units of local self-government, here's what I would like to stress because I think this is very important. So, what's this about? There is a single unit of local self-government that singles out those areas where the economic and ini entities that bring income and then, therefore, one large majority of the citizens living in the area will never be able to improve their conditions in equipment and infrastructure. Because it's actually going to be this minority that's being singled out because it's being located by some, an economic operator or a hydropower plant. I have an example in Split-Dalmatia County, from a municipality of 3,000 inhabitants, a municipality that has 200 inhabitants has been singled out and accidentally in its area is a hydropower plant. I think it's called the King, it gets a million kunas, and here these 3,000 residents who are left have no sense at all to exist because they don't have a single kuna of income. So they can't act. Whoever's in their power can change a hundred powers but, therefore, they simply don't have the means to develop and I don't think that's good. Or what's logical. I don't get into the reasons for who's in Vinodolski, but it's illogical to separate Vinodolski from the Vinodol municipality. So what's left? I have no idea, I've never been, but I don't think that's good. I think we're already matured for an entirely new local structure... And I think that we already have, so we already have now to use rational access funds we already have the opportunity to see that several units of local self-government are joining together in joint projects to make it easier to get funds from the European Union. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And I really think that this model that we're still using today, that it's coming to an end and that it's being spent and that we should have a completely different model that will guarantee that the areas aren't below 800,000 inhabitants and that we're going to make this country a little serious. I think that's the way, and now it's the right time because right now we're passing electoral laws, we're passing laws on direct elections of mayors, mayors and mayors, and I think that's the way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71223	Replica, respected representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71224	Thank you very much. Well, here's my colleague Rebic. I must confess that we have almost identical thinking. In your debate, you shot the srid. And actually hit the real point of things. I would just like to problem one claim that you made, which is that by establishing new municipalities has increased development. So progress has progressed in these newly established municipalities since the year 92. Well, look, that claim is often made in both the Parliament and the public, etc. However, I think it is very questionable because there is no comparable data. For example, the Municipality of Punat, which was created in 92, or 93, cannot compare its development with, let's say, let's imagine that it is not the Punat Municipality, but that it is part of the City of Krk, i.e. it was a local committee, because there is no comparable data. So these are pure speculations that occur. So we can't compare something that can't be compared to anything. I think you understand what I'm saying. So these municipalities were created when they were made available by citizens, by the will of politics at the time, and they had one of their own developments that went whether it was a municipality or a local committee or something other than the whole society was going forward, and so did those municipalities. It's possible, but it can't actually be claimed that it is. These are pure speculation that some place has developed rapidly because of what the municipalities were founded there.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71225	Second replica, Honored Representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71226	Thank you, Mr. President. So here I fully agree with what Mr. Rebić said, and after two more of these discussions, I will offer you access to the CNS so that you can come to this side, but to go back to what you've been having problems with, and you've troubled the issue of abolishing small municipalities or those municipalities that, by their own strength, can't possibly withstand any development or survival or any other kind of existence, so why doesn't that happen to the municipalities? They're not eliminated by anyone, they're not abolished by the government, neither is this government for the simple reason that they're all afraid that if they lift that municipality, they'll lose their votes, and that's the main problem why they're not going to reduce the number of municipalities and those municipalities that can't live alone.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71227	Replicate response, Honored Representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71228	Well, only with regard to the first part, unlike the CNS, HDZ is a democratic party and we can step forward as we think it is in the interest of this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71229	And the third replica, Honored Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71230	Now I'm going to make Nikki a bigger problem, and I'm going to compliment him, so he's going to have to justify himself again why he's being praised by the opposition. No, I think I'd first like to thank everyone who's here and that's good here if there are people who are ready to talk about this at 11 o'clock in the evening, that's good, I think that since this was a well-intentioned debate by Rebić, that's why people react like this, and I think we'll all get in trouble together if we pass a bad law who was in power. There's been problems before, they'll be in the future. There's something more I'll say about it in my debate. I think you just mention, no one mentioned... But there was a special problem because the same people signed that... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The exact same people, the same were the signatures of both Kiev and Vrlica. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was therefore the same people were among those who gave their signature that they wanted to join Vrlica and Kiev and it led, not to speak now about the national composition of these people, etc. to be then, there was a dilemma whether there were pressures or the kind. They signed... Paper and sign everything just leave them alone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71231	Replicate response, Honored Representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71232	So I'd say Mr. Jurovic, so I'm familiar with that part, so I know what it was about, and I know who was coming behind this real initiative. They were photocopies of the same to get something, but what does it matter? The historical reasons, therefore the source of the river Cetina is the top of Rick, the top of Rick is Vrlika, so it's amazing that this part is first divided in history, it's like when a fool throws a stone into a well 40 wise men can't take it out. So, what's this about? 40 years ago, we can't get back what some fools did to that space. That's what this is about, and unfortunately I never, never say, and during your power here you haven't worked hard enough even though there were people in your party who understood the problem and wanted to solve it. After that, politics came, but here we see today that it is not time for different reasons, and I am sorry that this is a violence, in my area it is not the way to solve the issues and problems that exist, and that is why people will, until there is an understanding here, all the more from these areas of Dalmatia, Dalmatia and Like will go away. So it must be recognized and such conditions should be made which are actually nothing being made there but being asked to enable the development of a total end that is not simply divided because then everyone stagnates. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71233	Maybe that's what Niko has to do with what they shot at me over the civilians with the anti-aircraft machine gun, so they shot me, right? I don't know. Maybe it has something to do with it. It's 23 o'clock. We've still got six, seven MPs, so we'd stop it now, and then we'll continue at 9:30 tomorrow. The first is the respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic. The session was suspended at 23:00 hours. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session and debate on the final proposal of the Law on County, City and City Areas in the Republic of Croatia. It is up to the honourable representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71235	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs! Well, we heard Mark's square again yesterday. Well, it's a normal thing because Mark's square decided in 92, giving an initiative to create new municipalities, some of which took advantage of a very fast opportunity to become cities but not all of them. It turns out yesterday that actually everybody wants to be mayors, mayors, that it's a monster, to set up a place for each other. I can tell you that in the Municipality of Samobor the two municipalities refused to become or planned municipalities at all. So it wasn't exactly a rush. I'm not going to say too much for creation anyway, but I support the creation of small municipalities because I've had a long time to follow and I've been here for four years and I have to say the president of the Council of Croatian municipalities in the Union of Cities and municipalities so I've had a chance to keep track of what's going on with these small municipalities. When you visit small municipalities in most cases except honorable exceptions in most cases, the standard improved, communal standard, someone could organize these people, so they gassed these small municipalities, the water lines were formed there, they got new trafocells, they got infirmarys and so on, so actually the benefit of small municipalities was quite large because the center of the former municipalities never took care of their periphery, so the periphery was always abandoned. Therefore, small municipalities should be supported in any case, but I also agree that if small municipalities want to stop being municipalities, they should be allowed to join a larger municipality or to achieve some kind of expectations in the community as much as they cannot. The time to pass this law is now I think it's ideal three years before the election. Last year there was a lot of traffic and complaining because it was directly proposed because it went right before the election. Now we have three years ago, there was enough opportunity, enough initiative, so I believe the law will actually pass. I must also commend the secretary of state, the team, that this time they have entered all the exact names of the settlements. We had big problems because both the municipality and the county brought changes to the settlement because every other village had... Samoborically, however, there is no such thing now, and that decision is respected, and that's good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It should be said that here they are in an effort and should at least become two cities, the municipality of Island that we heard all about last year, which is here in development, has received city features and the municipalities of St. Sunday which have several reasons. One of the important reasons is that there is an entirely identical name of the municipalities of St. Sunday in Istria. We have big problems in the municipalities of St. Sunday in Istria, so we're counting on our residents, but we've already issued hundreds and hundreds of confirmations that it's not the municipality, it's the other municipality, and then I'm making a little joke. We got long invitations from Istrian mayors for whatever parties there and we tolerated it but the worst thing was when the bills started to come in then we had to clear it up a little bit. Therefore, it may be good not to mix it anyway, that one Holy Sunday since it is very small it remains a municipality and this one becomes a city. It is also an example of how since the small municipality of 93, it can become a strong municipality and a developed municipality with a good work of built infrastructure, with large business zones, with a budget that last year in Croatia of 550 cities and municipalities was 24th by the end of the year 20 thousand inhabitants and I believe that we will actually get support here because there are really enough reasons. Here, this year the budget of the Municipality of St. Sunday will be around 64 million kuna, which is actually much larger than a few centers of the county. And I just wanted to say, here yesterday we heard the government change its mind, there were several examples of how the government changed its mind. So I think for such small things as these small municipalities with new documentation it's good that the government changes its mind, but it's bad when the government changes its mind as it did in the last term when it comes to Piran Bay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71236	Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative of Biserka Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71237	Thank you very much. In fact, counterpart Markovanovic said that this bill finally highlights all the exact names of the settlement. However, here is only in the Primorje-Gorski County one example within the town of Bakar, the village of Bakar – was. The rest of the town of Bakar, the settlements of Bakar, are nowhere to be found. So that's absolutely not an exact quote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71238	Replica, respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71239	Here, I'll start at the end. I mean, really, this conversation of ours has nothing to do with Piranha Bay. Now I could say that I was the prime minister here at the time when I was, now in the third term I am a representative, the prime minister who was then from HDZ claimed at least three times in the current hour that the government is not obliged to do anything to the pensioners, today HDZ is paying back that debt, i.e. Government, etc. So, but it's not about that. They change governments of thought and let them change. Let them change if that's good. A colleague Markovanovic said Mark's square decides, etc., that it was behind everything yesterday. I don't think that's the point. Indeed, no one has, I personally have nothing to form new municipalities, that municipalities grow into cities if it is concluded in a normal debate on the basis of demands coming from these communities, have the support of these municipalities, have the support of cities or municipalities of the county. But yesterday, we were mostly talking about a drastic example of the Vinodolska municipality being crushed, i.e. One section is set aside in the municipality of Vinodol, over 50% of the territory, and over 50% of the funds were mentioned in the word amputation against the will of the municipal council, against the will of the county assembly, and there is a problem. It is no problem that where initiatives come from the field with the support of these representative bodies that exist on that ground, but when it comes to being against it, it can be said that a kind of violence is being committed beyond the reach of those who live there. That's what I think the point is, and this is what we do now, let's let go of that political decor and folklore.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71240	Reply to the replica, respected representative Krunoslav Markovinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71241	Thank you. I don't think this is about violence, but it's about decisions made on the basis of documentation. That file is in the Secretary of State's Office. I think it's also available and that you can see exactly who wanted and what he wanted here. But I must say if it is the pensioners that this government respects the court's decision. Remember your decisions a little bit, remember a little respect, a little regress, a Christmas card, and it's similar if we don't do any more politics. And as much as it costs, I think we should pay as much as we have to pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71242	Second Replicated representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71243	Thank you very much. Well, in this assembly, many times before, our government and your government have heard it. I think you should break up with that practice because you see because your government is also our government. So it's our Croatian government so I think it's completely declassified and it's politically sounding all the time to speak ours, yours. We are myself thinking the Croatian state or it has its own parliament, its Croatian government and that is our government. Well, I guess for once, we can make those standards, we're already so mature that we can adopt those standards. But I wanted to say one more thing. All the time, the thesis is also being made that the establishment of small municipalities has increased the standard of residents of these municipalities. The thesis is, may be in part accurate, but it is essentially very doubtful and there is no evidence for it. Because you have nothing to compare to, for example, a municipality that was formed in 1993 with something to prove that it is better to live there. It is simply better to live because society is generally going in a positive direction and the general standard is increasing. I would in no way agree with the claim that, say, in the municipality or now the city of St. Sunday is living better because there is a municipality or what will be a city. It simply developed a zone there, the municipality's income increased, and citizens' standards could be better met. Contradictively, your colleague Markovanovic also claims that the centre does not take care of the periphery by alluding that the center of a place does not take care of the local board and so on. It can also be said that according to this bill, the centre decides whether a municipality will be founded on what you called the periphery. So from Mark's square, with, the government decides exclusively whether a new municipality will be established in a local committee or in a settlement.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71244	Reply to the replica, respected representative Krunoslav Markovinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71245	Thank you. Well, here's what I have to say to my colleague Antesic that it would be good if he went around the municipalities for a little while. Here's one day we'll sit down and visit a dozen municipalities here so people can say what they had before and what they have now. And it's not just about development, because here's all my hands on my back, and living is getting better. You will see that these municipalities are well equipped now communal. I don't even know how much money they got from previous governments, this government, but someone could have arranged them. People believed. Someone went to Elektro, someone went to Croatian waters on their behalf, and the fact is that the standard has grown significantly. Why are we talking about our government, your government? Well, because you talk to your prime minister all the time. Well, if that's our prime minister, then I guess the whole government is ours. ... Yeah, and the stories that the standard goes by on its own, we still can't believe it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71246	Honorable representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71247	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's what I'd like to do to Mr. Markovinović is to replicate in the part that when the municipality has 60 million kuna budgets to do the infrastructure and everything else that goes with it, and now in Istria, it wants to form a municipality of Trvis that has 800 inhabitants and 1 million kuna budgets. So he'll have a chief, a ficus and a phone and a fax. And with a million kunas, there can certainly be no infrastructure. On the other hand, the Gračice municipality is being taken away from the industrial zone, and as you know, the Gračice municipality is in the hill-mounted area. So residents also have some acquired rights that are being taken away from them and will be left with about two thousand kunas each citizen of the Gračis municipality because they will be transferred to the city of Pazin. And the town of Pazin because it is also amputated by a part of its territory and inhabitants will lose their founding rights to school because it falls below 9,000 inhabitants and loses 5 million decentralised funds. Now someone explain to me who gets and profits here?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71248	Reply to the replica, respected representative Krunoslav Markovinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71249	So here's my dear neighbor and colleague here I have to say that the first budget of St. Sunday's Municipality was $400,000. The next one was a million and 200, and that's how we got to 64 million kuna. Well, here's what I want for this community of yours. Secondly, I notice simply when in your opinion you find it inappropriate to have a captain or a municipality then he's either a local sheriff or a ficus and something like that. So give it up, people, give it a chance. Believe me, there's not much people scratching about the position of mayor, the mayor. We barely found anyone who accepted it. You know. On these terms.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71250	Honorable representative Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71251	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Government, colleagues and fellow MPs. We talked about this bill last night, but we need to be very clear and loud. The constraint of municipalities and cities certainly does not benefit the citizens. In some of the proposed examples, I may be suspected of being very clear even in electoral engineering. Today the debate has been resumed in the same sense whether or not it is true? Of course, people are always asking for the opinion of people and the opinion of people in a democratic society is what they need to be kept up to, and that is all they need to be guided by. I want this debate today to be kind of aware of the amendments that we gave to a few of us MPs, and they refer to the Municipality of Gračisje and the city of Pazin. Namely, the Law Proposal of the Municipality of Gračišina singles out the village of Bazgalji and attaches itself to the city of Pazin. The detachment of the said settlement from the district of Gračišje is a violation of the natural, economic and social integrity of the Municipality of Gračišina, because the settlements and parts of the settlements in the area of today's Gračice municipality as units of local self-government represent a natural, economic and social whole. Isolated by the settlement of Bazgalji of Gračisne municipality, it loses its territorial integrity. We expect this amendment to be accepted because the draft law has been done on the basis of the 1998 initiative without subsequent consultation with the Gračise municipality, the Istrian County and, of course, the most important citizens in the area. Economic and municipal infrastructure has changed since then. Spatial planning documents have also been established to define further developments within the Gračišje municipality area, and the question is whether the '98 initiative is being raised. the year for the detachment of the town of Bazgalji from the Municipality of Gračisje is held by the current commitment, the mood of the citizens in the area, and to note afterwards, the Municipality of Gračice has won and has become a municipality, a mountain-mounted municipality with additional tax benefits for its citizens. In this period, the local settlements of Bazgali were provided with conditions for the organisation of settlements, quality housing, municipal facilities and two economic zones of Krase One and Krasa two as the vessels of the housewives of the entire municipality's economy where I must say and mention the chief of the company, Mr. Jandrusic, who did a very good job with his team. Respecting the above mentioned above primarily because of the past times, we believe that the Office of State Administration, and then the Government of the Republic of Croatia, should still ask citizens for the opinion that this is confirmed by the procedure, the jurisdiction of the city of Pazin and the municipality of Gračiseva and also the County of Istria. As regards the second amendment, the proposed law for the separation of Troviza settlement, Brajkovići from the town of Pazin and the formation of the new municipality of Trviž also violates the natural, economic and social integrity of the town of Pazin. The town of Pazina area will be cut into two unequal parts territorially separated from the new municipality of Trviž. I don't know if you can see it well, colleagues and colleagues, but I have a map, so it's very easy to see what the government's proposal really is for what the Trviž municipalities should look like. The most important thing of all is that no procedure has been observed in this regard. So, what's going on? The natural, economic and social integrity of the town of Pazin is disrupted. Because the settlements and parts of the town of Pazina as units of local self-government represent a natural, economic and social whole. The only road connection between Pazin and Kašterga, Zamak and Zamak Dol is in question with the corresponding villages, which, according to the bill of law, would remain within the town of Pazin from which Pazin could come only through the municipality in the event of such establishment of the municipality of Trviž. I think it's really unserious to do things like that today. By establishing a new municipality of the City of Pazin, it loses its territorial integrity and connection to the settlements of Kašterga, Zamask, Zamaski dol and parts of the settlement of 448 inhabitants. Of course, we expect the amendment to be accepted because the draft law was made on the basis of the 2000 initiative without subsequent consultation with the City of Pazin, the Istrian County and the citizens of the area, and we know how citizens are asked to view it. So, just a referendum and just a referendum. Since then, economic and municipal infrastructure has changed to date, space and planning documents have been established and defined to further develop within the city of Pazin, and the question has been raised whether the initiative of 2000 for the establishment of the Trviž municipality maintains the current commitment and mood of citizens from these areas. During this period, citizens of the City of Pazin were provided with conditions for managing settlements, quality housing, municipal facilities and other service activities. Needs in the field of child care, education and education, health care, social care, culture, sports and other interests and needs of the population. And what's most important is the formation of the Trviž Municipality of Pazin will lose the number of inhabitants with which he loses his right to primary school, to manage primary school. This means that the primary school in Pazin will belong to the Istrian County. Once the centre of a county of the town of Pazin, of course, such things must not be allowed. Respecting the above mentioned above, due to the passage of time, we believe that the Office of State Administration, and then the Government of the Republic of Croatia, should have requested the opinion of citizens with a referendum from that area, the competent authority of the city and the Istrian County. Here I would like to mention another example, and this is an example of the settlement Eržiće, which belongs to the Municipality of Krsan under the current law, and yet, according to the new proposal, it enters the municipality of St. Sunday. You know that about 3 months ago I made a proposal to amend and supplement that law so that the settlement Eržiste would join the municipality of St. Sunday because it is life, because it is the only way to make it a single settlement belonging to a municipality that it is. It's a perfectly well-respected procedure. The decision was made by the Municipal Council of Krsan Municipality. The decision was also taken by the Municipal Council of the Council of Sunday. An agreement was signed between the two municipalities, so that the settlement of Eržiće municipality belongs to the municipality of the Council of Sunday and the final conclusion of Istria County was made that the settlement Eržiće joins the municipality of Saint Sunday. It's the only way that gentlemen can work in a way that people on the ground can live and get what's rightfully theirs. I believe that this is exactly the kind of example that will suggest how to solve certain things, how to do it, that there is no more deforestation of municipalities and cities at the expense of citizens, and that in this sense forget which government has done what it does and whether original engineering is done in this sense or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71252	Thank you. Replicated representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71253	Dear Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, just teaching the presentation of an esteemed colleague, I think that we must finally agree here in the Croatian Parliament on how and how such important proposals will come as the law on the areas of county, cities and municipalities. It certainly cannot be an urgent procedure and certainly we must agree on one important thing, which is that we must have exact criteria and criteria from the point of view of the economy of establishing new municipalities, cities and from the point of view of judgment whether these municipalities and cities will be able to fulfil their legal obligations if they are already established. Because from what we have, so there are lobbying now, some lobbying that the new municipality is being established, others lobby against, and that's a pretty bad message to the Croatian public because we ourselves saw that these new municipalities alone in terms of perseverance will cost the state 9 million kuna, that I'm not talking about the part that within 120 days the government will have to call the election decision. And now how many teams of new municipalities will need them to stand up when we know for ourselves that we have a large number of municipalities that can't collect annual incomes for their officials. And I'm not talking about the fact that they're doing something about citizens living in that area, communal infrastructure, everything that's a major and fundamental role and the tasks of municipalities and cities. So it is obvious that we have a large number of municipalities, a large number of cities that do not carry out their obligations and now we are going to one part of the increase. Instead of doing a real, effective analysis of the number of municipalities and cities being in the function of achieving the rights of citizens, not in the function of some peak that 4, 5 people will be there and they will be mastering and spending their resources on themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71254	Replication response. Honorable representative Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71255	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, of course I agree that this proposal and such proposals can't go by emergency procedure. It would certainly be better if this proposal that we have on the table today went to the first reading, so that after such open discussions, the second reading could change what is not good. Because we agree that in certain situations some things need to be solved because they live in the field anyway. On the other hand, I agree, of course, with what my colleague said, of course, that the procedure should be respected. So we have to make a referendum, make decisions to make these decisions afterwards to go to the government and then to the government to make such a proposal in the legal procedure, or whether clubs, whether individual representatives. But in any case, we have to hold the procedure. And if this law, this proposal didn't go into emergency procedure, I'm convinced that some things in the second reading would change and go back to the benefit of the citizens, and they don't do electoral engineering the way that is really happening in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71256	Dear Representative Jagoda Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71257	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. Well, I'm just going to have a few sentences since, uh, last night by late hours, there were a lot of stories about this bill. A number of examples have been presented, in fact, in a way, in support of the fact that the Law was actually done on a superficial basis, unfounded. So I would look back on just one detail of this law. Namely, the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia in Article 22 relating to the Split-Dalmatia County states that in the municipality under the regular number of 35, the Municipality of Solta enters 6 settlements including Grohote. At its 23rd session on 28 June 1996, the County Assembly of Split-Dalmatia County decided on the separation of Grohote settlements to Grohote, Necujam and Rogac settlements. Those who know Solta know that the settlements of Nechujam and Rogac existed until now were not only separate settlements but within Grohota. However, the decision was published in the official messenger of the County of Split-Dalmatia but until today no procedure for amending and supplementing the existing Law on County, City and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia has been launched, so it was not possible to implement the County Assembly's decision. In this context, SDP representatives of the 10th constituency and submitted a bill that was to be corrected, i.e. this decision by the County Assembly and legally formed. And now it's embedded in this bill, but now under the Municipality of Solta another new settlement appears, Vrabac settlement, and there's Soltani telling me that such a settlement actually doesn't exist on Solta. Where it came from, I don't know, I don't know, but obviously somewhere we have a surplus, somewhere we have a shortage, and it's all in favor of the claims made by a number of my colleagues, that the law was actually done quickly and superficially with clearly one single goal to meet his appetites and desires, I would say, certain political groups. You know which, and all the other questions were only casual and come well to actually camouflage the real reason for this bill's adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71258	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Walter Poirot.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71259	Thank you, Mr. President. An esteemed colleague said exactly everything. The only thing that's the law, this proposal made superficially and quickly. It is true that no legal procedure has been respected and it has been done superficially and quickly because the legal procedure is very clear. So I believe we're on to what we're talking about. If the legal procedure were to be respected, this would be the first reading possible, and on the second reading along with the complete procedure, they would probably get what people deserve, which is what they need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71260	Replicate response, respected representative Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71261	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I think that's actually the key to the whole problem. Not exactly respecting the legal procedure because I think it is, the law so far is quite clear and decided to determine how such large decisions are made. And here we had the opportunity to listen last night to examples of certain municipalities or cities whose will was not respected by citizens, and in some other cases, they actually push their heads through the wall and push some decisions that are contrary to the will of the voters. And I think that's exactly the key problem of this law because if it were respected then surely, there would be no such problem. And besides, it's such a great desire that the law is actually going through precisely for the reasons I've said before, which is to satisfy certain appetites and ambitions of certain groups. It added to the fact that the law was really bad. And I also believe that it has been respected, that we have listened to the SDP's proposal that this law does not go into emergency procedure but rather goes into first reading, so that many of these illogicalities can be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71262	Dear Representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71263	Mr. President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. After the fall of the Berlin Wall, a document affected the development of democracy in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, which is the European Charter of Local Self-Government. I really believe more than any other document. Namely, he forced the centralised state of the area to decentralisation, to introduce local and regional self-government, to bring the decision-making process closer to the citizens and that citizens have the right to direct elections to choose their representatives in the city and municipal councils and county assemblies within us. Today, local and regional self-government in Europe is the cornerstone of European democracy, a fellow cornerstone of European democracy, which is why it is incorrect that yesterday very late in the night we discussed this point somewhat illegal when no one could follow us or listen to us anymore. In Europe, when changing the laws in the area of local and regional self-government, very careful analyses of the situation in local and regional self-government are being carried out precisely and are going exactly in the direction of correcting these shortcomings. How do we colleagues and colleagues do that? Did we get on our bench any analysis of the state of local and regional self-government, did we get some excuse to do what we propose to do with this law. To share a series of municipalities and cities into smaller units of local self-government I got no information, and I believe neither you nor I have to make a decision based on intuition, no no intuition. But what is worst is we have shown and proved during the debate that we are making this decision without any criteria, nor have we had minimum common criteria in making decisions, but I would say in 10 new municipalities of 10 quite different criteria. I'll get you some of that and read it in the light of the debate. Some of the new municipalities are proposed on the basis of the decisions of the municipal councils that have agreed to this and proposed it. We make other decisions directly against the decisions of the municipal councils. I have an example in my constituency of one type and another. Then we split the other municipalities on the basis of the proposals and the consent of the County Assembly. For the fourth time, based on exactly the opposite decisions proposed by the County Assembly in my Primorje-Gorski County, for example. The fifth time we suggest establishing new municipalities based on what? Based on a proposal from a group of citizens and petitions they collected and proposed to the government. For the sixth time, this is an example of my Vindol municipality, the sixth time directly against petitioning citizens, the Kukuljanovo case. So, all possible cases, no principles, no concrete and agreed clear criteria. But yesterday we heard that every time and behind each of these decisions lies the will of the people, the will of the citizens. My colleagues and colleagues, I am truly disappointed with our attitude that we can even pronounce it. It is, but the will of the citizens, it is about political will, political arrogance, the political need not to generalise in certain situations, in some situations our party colleagues in the seats of the municipal chiefs because in the previous elections they could not get citizens' trust in existing municipalities and cities. It's true in several cases and it's clearly shown, not in all, but in one part. Mr. Rebic had a very correct debate yesterday, but I remember one sentence in particular. So it seems to him that something in that Vindol municipality that was most discussed last night is wrong. He says I feel something's wrong and I don't know much or almost anything about that community, but he's going to vote for the government's proposal. I mean, where do we get to vote for a concept, a proposal, an initiative we don't know anything about? My colleagues and colleagues are from that Vinodol municipality, you know from the municipality, you know in that municipality which is one historical, one cultural, one geographical whole for 700, 800 years, and eventually a group of smart people in the 21st century are found to tell us that the Vinodolska municipality needs to be divided into Vinodol A and Vinodol B. Ma that's funny. And what's worse is by these wise promoters of the Vinodol Municipality and introduce a new so-called. Vinodol. Who stays in the Vinodol municipality of colleagues and colleagues? There is only a place to gather so it would be if nothing else correctly said the Priberska Municipality and the Vinodol Municipality because in Vinodol we now have three seats... Križana, Tribanj, but no one has thought of the title nor the minimum of criteria, it is important to quickly exploit the mood of the majority in this House and to push that idea. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not enough for me, it's really not enough. You know, colleagues and colleagues, I haven't replicated anyone, and now I'm going to show three replicas. Look, this is the budget of my Vinodol community. This part is spent on the mayor, on fees for the official vehicle, on the team, etc., and this is what we spend on financing jobs in the municipality's jurisdiction. We will now give this part for official vehicles of the Commissioner, headship, fees etc., etc., and we will split this part of our colleagues and colleagues in half to perform their functions and cover the functions of one and other future municipalities. You know, I'm a doctor, I'm very weak in math, but every jerk realizes we're doing something bad, doing something very bad, but we all swear it's a real democratic path. It's an honor to those chiefs who volunteer their jobs, who don't have official vehicles, but they're very few. I don't expect these newly formed municipalities to actually work that way. They're going to cost us, it's going to cost us a lot. The Secretary of State should have said how much it would cost us and how much less funds would remain in the budget to cover the jobs. At least that's the kind of information we needed to get, so then make a decision. If we continue this way with our colleagues and colleagues, what will we lead to? We will lead to the fact that around each economic operator, around each factory, we will have one municipality where people will favour from the tax of that factory and these workers. We can't do that, and we can't let that happen. That's the direction we're headed. The proposal for a solution for me is to turn this into a first reading, to really introduce at least some minimum criteria for proposing new municipalities, to get these criteria in the second reading, to agree on where we can and where we cannot allow local self-government to split like this, and I would like to say to Mr. Poropat, although he has already raised his image, he will rephrase to me, you expect the Croatian Parliament to accept your amendments. My colleague Poropat, I expect nothing about this law from the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71264	Replica, respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71265	If there is a split of the Vinodolsko municipality in two parts, and it is, by all accounts, going to be because of the political will expressed, as counterpart Doric said to the political arrogance, it will be a unique example so far of the most dramatic at least. I am in the third term here at least in my experience so far the most dramatic example of the radical use of the spread of local self-government and, in fact, the violence of the citizens who live there because this is proposed against the will, past the will of the assembly, municipal assembly and past the will of the County Assembly. It's called violence, and this House shouldn't allow it. Knowing the people who sit here regardless of the political options, I don't think that's intended for anyone, and I even think that part of the people is just gonna be surprised by the party discipline and what I know to raise my hand for the law where it's all gotten in. I don't blame Mr. Palaric either. I think he was assigned as State Secretary to defend himself. But indeed, I appeal to all of us that it will be a precedent that will show that, mentioned counterpart Doric to the European Charter of Local and Regional Self-Government. What should be fundamental to the development of local democracy of the principle of subsidiarity or how you want to respect the will of citizens where they live that they will be used I don't know for what, I don't know if such a price should be paid to satisfy the appetites of some minor, irrelevant and small groups of people, both non-essential for HDZ, both for the SDP and for the entire Croatian public and for anyone. Well, let's not afford it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71266	Reply to the replica, respected representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71267	I agree with my colleague, Jurević, with you. Ending municipalities without any criteria is the same as playing football or tennis or any other sport without any rules. There I did not seem logical in sport that there are very clear rules of the game. We don't need any rules on such serious things here. That's why I agree with you that we can't go on like this. We need to significantly correct our way of working.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71268	Second Replicated representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71269	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, colleague Doric, I highly appreciate you as a serious and sober man and I don't believe that you are so naive that you claim that you don't know about the criteria etc. Well, I guess even after yesterday's debate and after last year's debate, it was clear to everyone that the criteria and criteria were exclusively to satisfy individual stakeholders of the ruling party on the ground. So this nakarada of the proposal for the Vinodolski municipality is actually just a contribution, a junta of the main idea that I should repeat is just to satisfy a particular interest group of the ruling party on the ground. What the Secretary of State himself thinks about this is that he proved his 45-minute delay in this session. So, he's getting rid of this, he's doing a job that unfortunately has to work and is essentially disgusted by it. And that's the truth, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71270	Reply to the replica, respected representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71271	Comrade Antesic, I agree with you when it comes to the Vinodol Municipality, I completely agree. However, let us not make the same mistake over and over again. There are municipalities here that have passed a proper procedure. Therefore, I cannot and must not, in the case of such municipalities, put them in the same basket as the Vinodol Municipality. That's what we can't let. This Parliament is constantly divided and engaged in black and white technique. Life isn't black and white.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71272	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Walter Poirot.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71273	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, colleague Doric, it's exactly what you said, and we really have one proposal here with no criteria. You've listed six of them if we're not mistaken. The inconclusiveness of the proposal, the government's proposal, is tearing down the ratings and our parliamentary representatives. Well, my people, what people on the ground say. So if we MPs don't stick to the procedures and criteria that we have to do, then how can they trust us? Let's be so sober, let's put this proposal in second reading and by then follow the legal procedure and put forward a bill that will be adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71274	Reply to the replica, respected representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71275	Yesterday, a colleague in the debate said that the Vinodol municipality is a misery and that by dividing that misery, we will now receive two miserys. It's not the Vinodol community, I'm proud of it, but it's the poor one who suggested it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71276	Just a little bit of your co-worker to keep up with your qualifications. You can criticise to the will and the strictest specific proposals but with qualifications you need to refrain. Dear Representative Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71277	Dear Doric, you have well emphasized the problem or better stated goal of passing this law, which is that individuals are placed in chairs that they obviously want so badly and so far, for various reasons, they have failed to realise it, and then they want to satisfy their appetites by overcoming the territorial structures of certain areas. And then, of course, it's quick to pass a law like this, I'd say it's just to push his passing by emergency procedure and make a lot of mistakes. Now, I mentioned one, and this is the municipality of Solta, which is now correcting, or is common to, that decision from the 96th County Assembly, but now there is a new village called Vrabac, which the Soltans say does not exist, but I found this settlement within the town of Trilja. Here, it's nice to write at the end of the village of Sparrow. Now it's not clear to me whether the Sparrow is in Trile or on Solta, it's obviously not on Solta because the locals themselves and the Solta thank God is not great, they say it doesn't exist. Therefore, the government needs to agree on where the Sparrow is. This is really just one banal example that best paints, I'd say surface, really the surface of passing such a law, and if it hadn't been for this kind of speed, it would have been for the procedure to be followed. So the first reading goes first, I think many of our remarks that we're making here could be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71278	Reply to the replica, respected representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71279	I can only agree with one lady. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71280	Honorable representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71281	I actually volunteered to point out to this High House, to the fact that Dr. Miljenko Doric may be the most intelligent person on this topic. Even when he's angry, I understand him. And because he, within the Council of Europe, has been treated as one of the leading experts in Europe for this area, insisting that these legislative proposals are not based on any serious and theoretical or other assumptions must be taken seriously. Until his debate I had one approach to this proposal. After his debate, I must admit that I will be against this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71282	State Secretary Antun Palaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71283	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I'm not too late for a session of the Parliament. I'm always there whenever he calls. She was at the same time a session of the narrow cabinet and I had to be there, but my deputy Mr. Paul Maticic was authorized by the government to represent this proposal so that the central state office would always provide representatives when he had its materials in the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71284	Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71285	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would say that with problems like this, every government and coalition government clashes when it was in Croatia. Here I was then and the chairman of the Committee on Local, Regional Self-Government and I can say that we have often had problems like this, and it seems to me that this is one thing that we should agree on together at least at the level of standards that fellow Doric was talking about to establish a criterion that will be unquestionable. I must ask the question now and to Mr. Secretary of State. What makes something that was reached as a certain standard now fall below the level we had until then? Earlier in order to form some special unit of local self-government, you had to get citizens' opinion, citizens' opinions. And not like you're now saying one-third of the split-off part. Citizens' opinions. Opinion, opinion of the municipal council or city council. A positive opinion from the County Assembly and a very important positive opinion from the Ministry of Finance. Without that opinion, a consensus is then taken between this on the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government not to discuss at all. This was agreed by all members regardless of political parties, on no proposal unless we have the finance ministry's paper that the part that wants to be singled out was usually about it. There were few examples like the Civilians, so the problem was whether they wanted to join the Virgo or Kiev. Most of the time, they wanted to split off. But it was neither considered nor discussed unless there was a positive opinion from the finance ministry that said "Yes. They will be able to live alone, meet all obligations and so on." Why do you go below that standard? I don't get it. This brings us then to doubt that volunteerism, political arbitration from the top, from Mark's square, is allowed as the people like to say so and so on. We'll all be victims of that. We politicians and politics as discipline to say so. Or something that should be dealt with by honest people, which would be done by honest people for the benefit of the common good, not for the benefit of a good individual, a small group, some lame groups whose strangers they belong to. Because we're all gonna have the same problems. The authorities are changing in Croatia, they will change thank God, that's normal. But if we don't pass such laws that are applicable regardless of who's government and who's gonna be just and logical, no matter who's government, then we're gonna get into trouble. What's a general, local self-evident? So as the plain scroll would say, It would be logical to respect at least the opinion of those people who live in an area, or to you, that these people may be brought to power in such a way that they can manage themselves in the part that is normal. To accept this principle of subsidiarity. If you really think that from the level of government you can decide what is of root in some environment and they are down against it then it seems to me that this government is doing the most damage to Croatia, which is to centralise it. I don't even think so, we have models different you have, which I know in France, Poland over here, over there, doesn't have to be the size of a local self-government unit. Not even a number. But if that doesn't make sense, if there's no general principles and principles, then we're in principle. Now it turns out that the government actually decides for itself. That the opinion of the local community is not binding. That we are coming up with a charm also mentioned by a colleague, Doric. Somewhere out there, it is appreciated that these proposals are being proposed somewhere by the government, suggesting beyond the opinion of the environment. That's one, that's Papasiania. It's a mess. It's a mess that's gonna get us in trouble. Because I'm wondering, so we'll come back to the Vinodol municipality again. And you see my question as a politician in the municipality where the SDP is in power. My question is whether someone wants to break the power elected in the elections and against the will of the citizens to change the structure of the government because the new elections will not be held in the part that will remain, and less than 50% of the former municipality will remain. Well, I'm sorry, that's violence. It's a sinister understanding of politics, it's a denial of choice. It's a denial of democracy and we have to stop it here no matter what party we're from. It was SDP, HDZ, IDS, I don't know about HSS. It doesn't matter at all, about HSP. It doesn't matter at all. I mean, I say I respect you all as colleagues. There was a debate yesterday from HDZ's ranks quite in line with this, let's say what I'm appeal to right now. It was in the late hours, it wasn't the media, but people are wondering, normally people are wondering, so what's it cost me as politicians, as people who do the same work, we don't want to pay to satisfy some tiny half-powerful, powerful, helpless person, or I don't know what I'd call him or a group. So why are we doing this? I can't figure it out? I can't figure it out because we're working against ourselves. What will happen tomorrow is that part of Split, Zagreb, which I know stands out by the logic of who in a neighborhood government or seeks support in the quotes of their government to support them in a city where they cannot have power, but can have power in a neighborhood. So we're going to twist the meaning of everything that's in place and I don't think it's useful for anyone. I simply appeal to all of us together to do things together. I will not talk at all about the historical dimension of which my colleague Doric also spoke. I mean, really, it's really a drastic example that we haven't come across before, even though there was anything. I'm not amnesting any authority. The problem was, the pressure from the field, the kind of stuff like that, we all have these party bases. The wonders of a variety in the field, every political party but we also have responsibility as parliamentary representatives, as politicians who speak in public and through the public, and we will respond if laws are passed that will introduce chaos in this country, and we are on a good path if some of the good standards we deny and if we agree to compromises to meet some non-essential groups and whatever political option they belong to.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71286	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Krunoslav Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71287	Mr. President, state secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. A colleague incorrectly stated that the law was inadmissible. In fact, he did repeat that inaccuracy to some local powers. This bill of law is very thorough. He's based on experience. He's actually talking about which counties are stable, which have established their municipalities, cities. Some are not yet and these are democratic turmoils and it is the charm of local self-government. This proposal for a law is also in line with the European Charter of Local Self-Government. The one who wants to have the municipality is the question of whether they can have it, and stable counties have long answered that question. Therefore, this law should be supported and I thank those who have done this on the basis of experience, on the basis of what it has in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71288	Second correction by the respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71289	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's what I have to say is that this is about denying democracy, denying the results of the election. Well, in this case, probably never again would any of the municipalities have formed. It means that the current initiatives, the current desires of the population for democracy, would actually be rejected for centuries. Furthermore, unless a colleague has noticed democracy is developing, and the municipalities have long since come up with a decree.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71290	The moment MP Marin Jurjevic got up and started talking, the tile was raised by the replica, without representative Jurjevic saying a single word. Nothing. Don't say a word. A representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinovic, has raised the tablet, which will now be replicated by the alleged bianco quote. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71291	That's not true because I replicated the moment my colleague Marin Jurjevic claimed that every government had encountered a problem like this. This is partly true, counterpart Marin Jurjevic, but this government has seriously clashed with democracy, has clashed with the Constitution, which claims to write in its Article 132 with citizens the right to local and regional self-government. She faced and clashed seriously with citizens and treated only citizens as citizens of only those voters and potential HDZ voters and this is a blow to democracy. You've already been here several times, and so many times has the Vinodolska municipality been highlighted as an example, so even at this point, by proposing this law, this is a continuation of the election. The elections in Croatia have not stopped here. First, after the elections, the stock exchange opened with mandates opened by the Central State Office, which turned HDZ's electoral defeats into election victories And then now... [[/President: Is that a replica?]] [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71292	My colleague Antičević...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71293	Well, you don't want to hear it. Don't, I'm on time, I'm on my own right!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71294	My colleague Antičević!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71295	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71296	You will not speak without my approval, and when I stop you, then you will stop. Replicate the allegations of representatives of Jurjevic, not the allegations of the government or the government's office.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71297	Please give me a second.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71298	You're welcome to stick to the line!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71299	I'm sticking to the line. Have you forgotten from... as counterpart Marin Jurjevic spoke about democracy and the impact of this proposal on the law of democracy, and I want to say it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71300	My colleague Antičević, you can't pollomize with the explanation I'm giving you. You can't take the word and you can't take the word and I'm taking away your word. You can't take your word for it. Dear Representative Zdenko Antesic. The reply to the replica is not given in time. Dear Representative Zdenko Antesic. Here you go. Here's my colleague Antesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71301	Thank you very much. In his discussion, counterpart Jurjevic said that this law, namely this legislative proposal, was made without any clear criteria, and that it was actually about volunteerism, political arbitration, guessing in political groups, and that, unfortunately, instead of deciding on it, the people and the representative bodies of the people on the ground decided on everything by the government. Well, look, my colleague Jurovic, about this claim, I would like to read to you the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as of 1 April 2004, signed by the Prime Minister himself, Dr. Ivo Sanader, and this is about including an initiative for the establishment of the Tar Varbriga municipality, two so I said two and four years. That's two years ago. That's what I'm saying. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia opposes the establishment of new municipalities since it believes that the under-realed municipalities of insufficient financial potential will not be able to carry out the tasks planned to be transferred to them by decentralisation. And now I'm asking you what the credibility of the government is, that is, his president, Dr. Ivo Sanader, who is the same initiative today 2 years after that, without any repeated procedure simply empowers this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71302	Replica response, respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71303	Well, that's exactly what this is about. The thing is, if we lose consistency, and even in our proposals and laws that we're going to propose here, we're going to question the good intentions that should lie behind the law. You know what laws are used in some society, some state. I think that's what we're questioning. Here are some colleagues and the charms of local self-government, but this charm of barium humari what would be said in Split. This has nothing to do with anything. The shuttles of the batule have one game of children, turn from that into this. Excuse me, by two municipalities, from one municipality turn three, seven, eight. It turns out this way, I like something so volunteering that it simply puts good intentions into question. I repeat, the Municipality of Vindol is a precedent that will cost us all, all future authorities if we commit violence against the will of the citizens who live there, violence against the people sitting in the highest authorities of local and regional self-government chosen by the people who live there and who have the sovereignty to propose, think about the area where they live. It's said... What's close is nice, those who live there know best about it. [[The speaker speaks English, not understood.]] I say, it smells like something else nobody needs. I'm saying it's not even for HDZ's benefit. Who thinks he's doing good at HDZ is doing his best to do his damage. In this case, I want HDZ well, and that's why I want it against this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71304	Next replica, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71305	Here's Mr. Antesic took my... It's just like Tar Varbriga Community. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what we're doing here, I think we'll agree on one side and the other that it's irresponsible, harmful, even extremely peripheral. It does not come from the interests of small people, but on the contrary, of the interest of this or that political structure that is at some point in power and in one word what is far worse than that we are really entering a dangerous game with political engineering. We'll get into a situation, gentlemen, that we'll have illegal councils or we'll have elections. And if we have elections, then we forge the election will of 2005. For example. Now, if the two who are in the Council of Poreč Istria go to Tar Varbridge for the election, and you can't name two new councilmen who just happen. We're delegating these people clearly can't. We have one legal vacuum, we have an illegal council or we have an election. Therefore, I am not against the formation of new municipalities, but then let's respect the gentlemen's procedure and go to elections when the time is right, and these are the regular local elections in 2009. Anything else simply gentlemen can be influenced by the notion of political engineering, under something simply illegal will simply work afterwards. And so much I'm really asking you to try to listen to some city, the voice of reason that comes from the field as well. I assure you that in these municipalities citizens may be for new municipalities, but an incomparable number of citizens in this country are against such practices. It just doesn't lead to anything anymore. And you can't, Mr. Secretary of State or you legislators of the law forging I would say the will of the citizens and, past the legal procedure, refer to the procedure of the proposals for the formation of the municipalities, because that will completely disabling both the government and destroy the system of local self-government. Such practice is devastating, harmful, and does not lead to anything. She's one word unspective.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71306	Replica response, respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71307	So I think I mentioned that when I said that one of the biggest problems that could possibly be the introduction of such precedents, the adoption of such laws in this way can lead to the election will being played by citizens. And then it's a big thing, my dear friends, colleagues and gentlemen, about big things. If it tries to play the will of citizens, under the company, the electoral will of citizens, by the firm strengthening local self-government i.e. secession or amputation of a part of a local self-government unit and so that the smaller part remains, and the larger part is separated by the will of the citizens, past the will of the county, past the will of the existing municipality. Then I'm sorry it's not called anything other than violence, a narcissistic thing. And that's why I'm appealing to it. We have examples, we have the same request from the people of Zaton, from Zaton to separate themselves from Nin. Nin supports it, we have the will of citizens, the county assembly supports it. It is financially supported by documents that can do it, but it will not be central political power. Everything depends on the central political government, and then it's called centralised. And let's not sell it to local self-government. And this bill, the proposals are legally falling below the standards we've had, and it's no use to anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71308	The next replica, the esteemed representative of Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71309	We have already heard in the course of this morning's debate that all inaccuracies in the names of the settlement have been corrected in law. A colleague named Jurjevic mentioned the cleavage of the Vindol municipality. However, he did not mention the disappearance of a settlement in the municipality. In fact, it's gone with the letters and 52 settlements. It is obvious that the Government is building new municipalities with an administrative terror and not only does it lack the will of the citizens but they are being wiped out with one move of feathers. No one has ever explained how these settlements disappeared, whose will they disappeared, in which procedure they disappeared. It seems to have been done since last year when it couldn't tell which settlement it belonged to, so between the two law readings, all those settlements simply were wiped out. Since then, however, more than a year has passed, and deleted settlements remain in the land of Neverland. There are similar examples in other counties. Here is a colleague, Martic, who mentioned an example of Korčula. We've heard some other examples, some other examples. Well, that's just more evidence of excess in favour of the claim that it's terror and that it's about the recentralization of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71310	Replica response, respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71311	As you can see, almost all the MPs who are replicating speak of this precedent called the Vindol Municipality. And to make it clearer, last night in a debate that lasted here until 11:00, a lot of us said, here I again want to repeat, and I don't mind that the island becomes a city, or Kutje's city, or St. Sunday if the proposals are reasoned, etc. Let it be, let's back it up, but I'm against the violence being committed by citizens who are against it, and someone else is pushing it, and I don't know what kind of historical, cultural, and I don't know what other reasons can be found to support that this proposal is bad. But in fact, since we are politicians, the danger of such volunteering is not to be led to precedents to change the election will of citizens, to do actions that will question good, not only good intentions for us, but not to turn simple politics into what citizens have long been accusing us of, corrupt activity, the activity of wicked people, the activity that is on the hierarchical scale of value at the bottom, and we are the ones who need to say no, among politicians the majority are fair, dealing with this business for the sake of general good. It seems to me that these examples simply cast a shadow and question these good intentions as politicians of all together.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71312	Honorable representative of Ante Markov's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71313	Thank you very much. A colleague, Jurjevic, said authorities have been facing these problems for a long time. Let the authorities clash, but should not clash with the interests of citizens, especially those of the interests expressed in the sense of law, and most of these municipalities are shown in accordance with the interests of citizens and in accordance with the legislation. I will only mention the municipality of Tribunj which has no reason to really wait and to refer to the criticism mentioned here. Because she spent the will of the citizens, she got the consent of the city of Vodice from which she stands out, she got the consent of the County Assembly. So let's not generalize. And one more thing. All those new municipalities that came into existence, small or large, to ask them today if they're better off now that they're independent municipalities or when they're in the community with others. I'm sure the answer would be on the side of those who would say we're better off now. So I'm up to it, if the Trvij municipality, if Vinodol is not in line with the principles we're talking about, let's say they don't work, but let's not put all these 99% in the same basket and get the impression that someone's against it. Gentlemen, I said on behalf of the HSS Club, we are for all those municipalities that have a proper procedure, we are and we will be. Where a thing is badly done, wrong or something is done that doesn't comply with the law, so I guess we can agree to take you away from those who made you neatly and properly and that's the point of things and not generalizing that now we're making an impression that we're against everyone, because we're not against everyone but against those who don't comply with the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71314	Thank you. Replica response, respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71315	Here's me thanking my colleague Anti, I absolutely agree with that. Well, normal thing, for me, it would even be logical to let us individually make a statement about this, let's not put everything in the same basket. We have, say, Vrsi, I'm sorry, I support it. What you were saying, I support it. I also support these suggestions to be cities. I don't support this about the Vinodol municipality, I think it's nakaradic, that it's precedent, that all of us will be suspected of doing something dishonest and that's why we separate it. Why would they decide all that on a bunch? And anyway, every case is in some way what I know, a phenomenon, a Suigeneris, has its essence, its own, let's talk about every time there's a vote to vote separately. Let's go, and we'll see that there's a lot of things we have in common. So anyway, there are some people from HDZ, here's counterpart Rebic said yesterday, and he has a problem just like a man to understand why this is done to the Vinodolski municipality. Other things aren't questionable to us either. I urge that we understand it as politicians all together, as people who are here for the same purpose should go. And I agree, I didn't mean to put it all in the same basket at all. But also, something warned his clearest colleague, Doric. They can't be different criteria for the same thing. So someone could stand out as a municipality for one rule, for another argument for the third. It's my people's mess, you as lawyers should understand that. If it's not serious, people will think we're insecure. We can't explain the same thing in that way, for different ways, to explain the same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71316	Honorable representative Mato Raven. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71317	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's after hours at times of controversy and very harsh debates, but highly justified, I join all those who have shown their concern at the very least, I would say, for the adoption of this law by an urgent procedure, pointing to arguments, of course, to the inexcusability of this way of passing this law. But listening to many colleagues before, it seems to me that we, here in this assembly, are not hearing each other well enough, and we do not understand each other well enough. A lot of arguments have been made here, a lot of words about the inconsistency of the Government beginning with the opinion that the Government delivered to the Croatian Parliament on 1 April 2004, in which I quote: The Government opposes the establishment of new municipalities, since it believes that the reduced municipalities of insufficient financial potential will not be able to carry on the tasks planned to be transferred to them by decentralisation. This law, I would say, is also a reflection of unnecessary haste because it is almost identical, it has been prescribed since last year in March when we discussed it and when due to the lack of only one vote has not been adopted, it is ultimately harmful in my court. Why? Well, I don't think he respects first of all the remarks that have been made in the meantime, nor does he solve the interest of local self-government units. Here I want to say very precisely on the trail of especially fellow Jurjevic, that this law does not access selective problem solving, it has put everything in the same basket and to us who need to make a decision it is really difficult to determine by respecting all these arguments that my colleagues and colleagues have made before me. I don't doubt that here and this law has not been a good will both for citizens, for the central state office and for the government, but I think that here there is more contentment than content, and the question of responsibility is all of us for choice, for the final decision and for what individual units of local self-government will realize tomorrow in the interest of their citizens, of course. Here's the question of what's the goal? Is the goal of further strengthening local self-government units, preparing for further decentralisation and fiscal but also each other? Is the goal of allowing direct management of the foundations of all charters and all positive legal regulations through new units of local self-government? And ultimately, to make the lives of all citizens better with less financial spending, or is the goal something else? Making assumptions for new functions and new functionaries. I can't help but get the impression that he's not here, and this law didn't make any very clear political engineering. It seems to me that this is about one, by my judgment, a very strange precedent. In fact, out of the nine new municipalities formed, 7 municipalities are formed by detachment from cities, therefore, cities that have been existing for many years. To list them, Podvinje is separated from Slavonski Brod, from Županje Štitar, from Vodice Tribunj, from the town of Porec Tar Varbig, from Rab Lopar and from Pazin Trviž. The number of people in Trviž is 800. I'd say my Podvnije may have a satisfaction, so the largest municipality is if this law passes, and I'm asking you not to pass. I'll make an argument about why. There would be 3 thousand 666 inhabitants. But it is not just the number of inhabitants who should determine the strength and size of the municipality but something else. Almost all the debates before me showed the direct need to take care of the will of the citizens, but also to respect the procedure. Looking at this Law and what I know, here at least when it comes to the separation of the municipality of Podvinje from the City of Slavonski Brod, the will of citizens is not respected, nor is the procedure respected. Mr. Secretary of State knows this very well, as well as the President of the Croatian Parliament, many clubs do. Because I have before me the conclusions of the City Headship since 4 July of this year in which, in a very reasoned and explained way, they explain their opposition, disdain and wonder with such a bill that they, who bypassed them, are neither consulted nor where to make anything else. In preparation for local elections or before the local elections, a part of the political will of the HDZ from the local board of Podvinje sought to change the power of the City of Slavonski Brod. A thousand 392 signatures and an initiative have been collected. The town of Slavonski Brod decided on March 20th to call a referendum on which many colleagues and colleagues spoke here. It was conducted in the village of Podvinje and of a total of 3 hundreds and 250 voters came out 345 or 10.61%. Of that number, of 10.61% of the voters, 75% were against the separation from Slavonski Brod. So, the unequivocal will of the citizens of the village of Podvinje. The conclusion, the report and everything else was delivered last year to the Central State Office but for reasons unknown to me, and I would like to hear from Mr. Secretary of State, the same was not adopted, not taken into account and Podvinje is re-emerged from the City of Slavonski Brod by this Law. I don't believe this is about volunteering. I'd say there's an oversight here because I don't want to believe in anything else. Meanwhile, there has been a change of government in the City of Slavonski Brod, there is a coalition of HDZ, HSP and others there and I hold that there are no arguments that would now be the end of this part of the city or the separation of this municipality, part of the city into a new municipality. Many have agreed, and I fully agree with all of us that it is the task of all of us here to carry out our tasks responsibly and to pass laws that will serve the largest part of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. But to respect, and unquestionably, the will of those who chose us here and who we represent. As time leaks to me, I will tell and bow to all my predecessors that we are ultimately voting individually on each of these proposals. For surely, as there is sufficient arguments here against the adoption of this Act and such a solution has a number of units of local self-government which have a basis and where the will of citizens is quite the opposite of what is expressed by the will of the citizens in the settlement of Podvinj. I hope that in future much more attention, and I especially appeal to the Central State Office, to the interests of the field, I would say, and that before any law, and especially of this nature, comes to the benches, comes to the procedure, it will be necessary to update information and take quite a few other views, given that life is not static, it is dynamic and very fast many things change. So, by appealing to vote individually, I ask you not to support at least the extraction of the Podvign from the City of Slavonski Brod. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71318	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71319	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, my colleague Gavran said in a number of incorrect allegations "this law does not solve the interests of local self-government units, there are assumptions about creating new functions, this is about political engineering" and so on. Well, I think that's definitely not true. Because if we're dealing with the interests of local self-government units, it's about new units, so it's about the ones in creation. They're solving their interests, and it's not true that there are assumptions here for new functions. It's about the desire to achieve everything people couldn't in the existing organization of local self-government. It's about the abandoned parts. If it's political engineering, it's amazing. If someone separates themselves from HDZ's work or something, then they're new chairs, and if there's a community from SDP's work that's political engineering, then it's directed against SDP. So let's keep the people in line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71320	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71321	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected colleague said this is about the inconsistency of the Croatian government and the inexcusability of the adoption of this law by an urgent procedure. In fact, it is incorrect because last year in two readings we discussed this bill proposal which we know that one vote has not been passed and that it has received the support of a large majority of MPs in this House, and also a number of MPs' proposals are in the procedure that want the interests of local communities to be found in the bill. I therefore believe that this is justified because it corresponds to the interests of the citizens, and speaking of the inconsistency of the Government, I will only say that in 2000 this Law was changed twice, in 2001 once, twice in 2002 as in 2003. I don't think that what my colleague says was inconsistency with the government, but thinking about citizens' interests and trying to find solutions for local self-government units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71322	Replica, Honored Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71323	You're telling your colleague that you're expressing concern with this proposal. I could agree with this in a good way, although I believe that this proposal obviously has been struck by local self-government and thus on the Constitution because citizens are guaranteed the right to local and regional self-government, but it is also true that you said that there are good solutions and we cannot put them in such a crazed solution as Vrsi and Tribunj. It's not at all controversial and it's correct. But on the other hand, we have a municipality, before the Vinodolska Municipality is singled out, a proposal to single out the Vinodol Municipality. Over 50% of the population stands out why? The election continues, we are not satisfied, HDZ is not satisfied with the elections and then and when... It didn't work now it's legal now, and so the central office figures, you appeal to the central office. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Oh, please. Well, I'm surprised at you. So the central office, so after the lab, has now become a construction institute for the construction of municipalities that should be HDZs and for the separation of those opposition SDPs and other inviolable political oppositions to dissociate them.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71324	Replica's response, the esteemed representative of the Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71325	Thank you very much. In a surprise, at least when this meeting is never going to be over, probably in the future. In fact, I said that often we don't hear each other well enough then we don't understand. I still want to believe that in this country, and especially in this assembly of Parliaments in our government, I repeat to our government, because ours is constantly being said, your government has enough motive to step up and pass laws that will function as the largest part of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Here I am sorry that my colleagues from HDZ did not use another instrument of replica so that I could respond to them, but I will tell you colleagues and I find it difficult to take the impression, but here I am still as a great optimist starting from the fact that not only did the mere engineering run the promoter both the Central State Office and the Government propose such a legal solution. Unfortunately, you probably have the right to speak in the way you speak because of these seven cities that amputate certain parts of the settlement or some settlements in most of it were in power or driving initiatives of HDZ. That's what the argument is, but here the arguments aren't worth it. I hope the citizens understand that, especially when they feel all the effects of this law that we're about to pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71326	Second replica, Honored Representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71327	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Mato Gavran, in his debate at the beginning, said that we here in this assembly don't hear enough and we don't understand enough. I would say to my colleague Gavran that we hear very well and understand very well, but colleagues from the Croatian Democratic Community want to put us in a position or take or leave, and I don't think that's good. All I'm asking for is to allow me to vote for most of the proposals exactly the same as my colleagues from the Croatian Democratic Community, and I would try to explain it, for example. in the 8th constituency I come from, e.g. in Istria. In 2004, we had an independent proposal for the Municipality of Tar Vabriga, which has citizens' signatures, everything according to the law, what my colleague Markov was talking about, the citizens' signatures, has a positive opinion of the City of Poreč, a positive opinion of the County Assembly, a projection of the budget of 8 million kuna, a confirmation of the Ministry of Finance and consent to that budget projection, and it was normal to then vote on that Municipality of Tar Vabriga, but colleagues from the Croatian Democratic Community were then when it was an opportunity to establish them, and counterpart Antesic repeatedly read the argument of the Government, i.e. Dr. Ivo Sanader, as was then the position of the Croatian Democratic Union. It's identical to the Funtana case in Istria. I will also vote for the Tar Vabriga Municipality if I am allowed to make an individual statement for the Municipality of Funtana, but apparently the government and colleagues from the majority party do not want to but want these proposals, which are based on everything and which respect the will of the voters to attach this particular... where the structure of the town of Pazin is broken, where there is no basis or foundation, where no procedure has been passed, and that I am not also talking about the case of the Municipality of Vinodol and the only thing we are asking for from colleagues, and so are you looking for a colleague of the Raven to vote individually for each proposal and that that proposal which is truly based on the existing law and which has a resonance, which has grounds to allow me to vote just as well as my colleagues from the HDZ and when it comes to Istria, Tar Vabriga of the Municipality and the Municipality of Funtana, but don't force me to condition that these municipalities that have the foundations are established that we have to vote for Trviža, because we can't vote for Trviž in any way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71328	Thank you. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of the Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71329	Thank you very much. Dear colleague of Peru, I fully agree with you and it is really not good that we are discussing and passing laws that will hit the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in one way or another. I can understand that the different approaches in finding certain legal solutions or otherwise solutions are but I do believe that the goal here should be the same for all of us. But obviously, I'm going to give myself and you're mistaken, because here the target justifies the means. Instead of putting tolerance on the table in this House, the mutual appreciation that arguments are a elemental prerequisite rather than an impression usually occurs the other way around. But there are those of us who, in our opinion, are not going anywhere, we represent him, so there will probably come a time when arguments and consistency will be recognized and be one of the fundamental values.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71330	Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic of Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71331	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague of the Ravens talking about the will of the citizens and I would illustrate the will of the citizens to deal with it in the municipality of Donja Motičina. My colleague, having had a link to Zagreb at one point, decided to build himself a municipality where he would be chief and he succeeded, made it a municipality, in a municipality called Donja Motičina municipality, the Upper Motičina and Seona entered. Since the beginning of the will of the citizens of Seona was not respected because no moment did they want to enter the municipality, and they have tried to separate themselves from that municipality since 97, and of 340 registered voters 303 signed a statement that they wanted to separate from the municipality of Donja Motičina because they saw that in the municipality of Donja Motičina, which has 800 thousand kuna budgets, they have no chance of development and desire to get out of that municipality and join the town of Nasice. However, their signatures were not enough to show that it was the will of the citizens. I have given such an amendment for the last time, normally not accepted, I believe it will not be accepted now. But there's one thing in this whole story. If we don't respect the citizens' will as it is shown then we'll respect some decision by a city council or I don't know the county council. If there is no respect for what is practically the same as a referendum on how something else will be respected. I know that after this, if Seana is singled out from the municipality of Lower Motičina I will certainly not get any votes ever again because she will practically have to be shut down because there is no reason to exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71332	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Mato Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71333	I agree with you, my colleague. The will of citizens is a strange notion, and especially in our environment, it is interpreted in various ways and especially in the way that it suits certain political powers at a given time. That's what's not good. I am a legalist and I represent that in the prescribed form, so in very clear rules of the game everyone has the right to show free will what they do to him, in which the environment will live and how they will best satisfy both their interests and the interests of the environment they belong to. Marriage by force, and I can figure it out just like that, it's not good. He's not natural and he's not sustainable. And that's why I agree with you when we came here last night and today we talked about this bill's proposal, when we said we should go selectively from unit to unit, respecting the arguments and making a final decision on that basis. This is how when everything smiles, when you have a good frame and the image is in there quite vaguely, we go through as we go through and the citizens remain convinced that either the hostages on one side are undergrown or the authorities or simply in a position that they have to behave the way the other wants to.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71334	Next replica, respected representative Zdenko Antešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71335	Thank you very much. Comrade Raven, you said this bill was satisfying more forms than content. Well, you see, I would pollomize with that thesis of yours because it's not actually either satisfying form or content. In fact, as regards the form of the law, the municipality defined as a unit of local self-government established as a rule for the area of several populated areas representing a natural economic and social whole and linked to the common interests of the population. You see, in this case for the municipality, for this proposal Funtana, Lopag, Podvnje, Tribunj and Stitar this form is not satisfied. Secondly, the legal procedure for some of these proposals has not been fully respected and this is primarily for the municipality of Trviž, the municipality of Vinodolska, the municipality of Podvinj, etc. And as for the content, and that doesn't make any sense. Content, can you explain to me whether there is any content, therefore any real content which is of interest to the citizens, for example the Municipality of Vinodolska that they divide the municipality into two separate units. And now I'm asking you the citizens' interest, the rights of the citizens, whether that resident of the part of the settlement from which the other part of the settlement is amputated has any rights, or only has the right to be separated. So this proposal puts the rights of the settlements of the part that remains after the amputation at risk. And in fact, I would suggest that I be a little sarcastic, that I caricate now we have 559 municipalities and cities in the Republic of Croatia, and I would suggest that any representative or more visible member of the ruling party on the ground propose to their municipality because this is a much easier way of courting the political body than to care about real and real needs, which is why we actually got votes to be in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71336	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Mato Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71337	Thank you very much, Mr. President! Well, colleague Antesic, I agree with this bill that the rights of residents are at stake, so they live in areas of whether or not I know my Podvinj and I can say about some other environments. Unfortunately, a lot of things aren't natural around here. It's not natural for 55% of the settlement to stand out and go to new elections without 45% staying as if nothing had happened. It's incomprehensible to me, and I'm going to reunite it figuratively with marriage when marriage isn't sustainable and when the only way to break up culturally, civilizationally is when both partners are supposed to be familiar or agree on how they're going to continue to live as civilized people? How's he gonna split up the property? What about the obligations that marriage or future life will make? So a lot of things you don't need to invent hot water, but it's just life. Unfortunately, here and through this bill, life is not respected. For these reasons, I've said vividly that the form is being satisfied. And the form is going to create new municipalities, new units of local self-government. There will already be some local power man sitting in the chair, and the content and all those jobs that come out of that new unit of local self-government are in the "N" plan. That's what's not good and that's why we all appeal together for a lot to change.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71338	Next replica, respected representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71339	A fellow Raven my replica goes in the same direction to your three words; form, content and lack of information. And I especially agree with what you just said. You don't have to keep discovering hot water. Croatia was admitted to full membership of the Council of Europe and ratified the European Charter of Local Self-Government ten years ago. There and then we accepted two-thirds of the provisions, two-thirds of the charter. Unfortunately, one-third of us didn't accept it at the beginning, but we promised we'd do it further in function of time. Unfortunately, neither this previous government nor that government had previously informed the Parliament of when, what provisions and why would they be accepted during some rational period of time? So we don't have to reveal hot water. Do we have to look at how the others handled it? What have others done with form and content to meet the need and demand of their citizens? Unfortunately, though, it is not just this Law. We're always unconstitutional. Always a lack of form, always a lack of content, always a lack of information. And that's why we're doing our job in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71340	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Mato Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71341	Thank you very much. Well, my dear colleague, Doric, I sign everything you said. It was just hard to add anything to your arguments. Sadly, we often live in good faith that those who bear the burden of responsibility will have the strength to acknowledge to themselves but also to others certain failures. I'd say in good faith. But here in this case, when it comes to this law, it's not a word. And I think it's really here to satisfy the mere form, and the contents are somewhere else. We swore and talked about the rights of citizens, respecting the will, respecting the procedure, but here's the example of Podvinj, but also other municipalities, we showed that neither the citizens' will was respected nor the form respected. It is up to all of us to make additional efforts to make game rules so that we respect the procedure as much as possible, or to agree on how we will work quality and live on no matter what political option we belong to? I am pleased to learn that from 2000 to 2003 this Law or the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia has been changed seven times, but as far as I know, the promoter of these changes was not the Government or central state office. They were MPs who, based again on the free will of the citizens, sought to improve and regulate better quality relations in each area.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71342	The next replica is the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71343	You're telling your colleague, Raven, that this law represents a selective approach to the government's problem. Every law tends to solve a problem. We have to ask ourselves, what's the problem here for the government? What problem is she trying to solve? Is the problem with citizens' will? No, that's where you proved the example of the Podvy. This has been proven in the area of Vinodolski municipality. That means it's not a problem. That's why he doesn't even solve the problem. The problem is something else. The problem is how best to prepare HDZ election results. When we have one situation that in a local, local self-government unit HDZ has no support, but has support in part of that unit then... We'll make a special unit out of that part, and we'll do better in the next election. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Pure political engineering. Clean. And that problem here is not solved selectively. He's getting rid of himself very consistently. This government consistently protects HDZ interests by keeping no account of the citizens' will. So why do they care about the citizens? Well, they're not here for the citizens, are they? They're here for themselves. That's how the government understands their mission. You're still saying this is contentment, not content. Please, what kind of form? So there is a village called Sovlje that should belong either to Tribunju or to Vodice. There's a missing place for Ivin to be in Tisno County. Well, that's where the seats were forgotten. Why? Well, that's because it doesn't matter how sloppy this law is, it's sloppy, it doesn't matter. They're dropping the whole place. Why? Well, because it's not a problem to make order. That's not what they wanted to do. It's a favor to HDZ and making a mess on the way, it's not important to the government at all. It doesn't matter to the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71344	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Mato Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71345	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I, in my original address, drew attention to the unnecessary haste of this government. On the surface in certain proposals and here I fully agree with you. I wanted to be lighter in terms when I was talking about satisfying the form or content. Your opinion is that political engineering is unquestioned here especially when it comes to the separation of certain municipalities or individual settlements from the cities that I have listed here. So out of seven cities, seven new municipalities are created, and these two are from existing municipalities. Of course, all the predecessors and you, too, have proven that the will of individuals in the HDZ or close parties is here. I can't argue that the basic desire to create a mess with this political engineering is to create order. It's just an impression. I believe the citizens won't be fooled. And that citizens living in certain environments where the word is best know who is behind what or behind who is behind who, what are his intentions, what are his goals, and then things are very clear. When it comes to the citizens of Podvenja, they have said theirs. It remains for the government, the Central State Office, and we here, in particular, to say finally what we think and why we oppose it. Convinced that we are absolutely right and that through this example, this approach is not only unsustainable but extremely harmful and that I agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71346	And the last replica, the esteemed representative of Walter Poropat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71347	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleague Gavran said and mentioned a referendum in a local self-government unit where 75% of the citizens voted in favour. That's the argument. These arguments include the decision and establishment of new municipalities. In some examples of the Government's proposal, however, there is inconclusiveness, and this inconclusion results in a lack of respect for the criteria or inconsistencies of the procedure. An example such as the proposal to set up the Trviž municipality by separating from the City of Pazin is very bizarre. By detaching the village of Bazgalji from the Municipality of Gračisje as well. No criteria and no procedures. However, I will give a good example, and a good example is the settlement Eržiće, which, by the current law, belongs to the municipality of Krsan. However, the municipality of Krsan is aware that this village belongs to the municipality of Saint Sunday and the municipalities of Krsan and the Council of the Municipality of Krsan have decided that the settlement Eržiste really belongs in life and on the ground to the municipality of Saint Sunday. The same decision was made by the Municipality of the Council of Sunday. In addition, an agreement was signed between the President of the Board of the Municipality of Krsan and the President of the Council of the Council of Sunday that really Erzić belonged to the municipality of the Council of Sunday. The conclusion of the County of Istria County is that way. So the procedure is completely clear. These are the criteria and it's the procedure and so we have to stick to MPs in a way that shows that we want to be serious people and that the policy we deal with is work for people on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71348	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Mato Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71349	... The threshold, and in the end, all this debate for several hours, indicates that not only do we want to be responsible but we are actively confirming this through our approach. [[The speaker was subsequently activated.]] Unfortunately, this law is half a solution. In one part, he respected the real interests, the will, the desire of a particular area, so part of the citizens and proved their justification for forming new units of local self-government. But in the second one, he absolutely annulled it. That's what's not good. None of us here asked us to court anyone, but as rational and responsible people, bearing in full terms words with the burden of responsibility, to bring such legal solutions to the function of citizens wherever they are in the Republic of Croatia. Here as soon as the criteria are not clear, as soon as the rules of the game are not clear, volunteerism is progress, and then we all come together in a position for citizens to experience that we are all the same. You see, for these reasons, and we speak with argument and we confirm that neither we are all the same, nor every legal solution, and especially here when we talk about this law, nor are all the units of local self-government and the requirement for their formation justified, and that's what we have to admit to ourselves. Well, in the end, it's human beings to admit it's a mistake. An epithet is given more if it gets the strength. I appeal, as you do, to be able to acknowledge and accept certain bad solutions, to admit a mistake, and to fix it no matter what political option it belongs to.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71350	We're going to five-minute debates now by the clubs that signed up. Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic. It's a HNS rep club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71351	Thank you, Mr. President. At the Club of the Croatian People's Party, we will not support this bill on areas of county, cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia because we do not believe that the will of citizens should be respected. However, we believe that it should be respected, and that is what the European Charter of Local Self-Government says, and if that were the case with this law, we would have voted in favour of the law anyway. However, this is a political law anyway. This was seen in last night's debates and in today's and this political law that failed for the first time was one vote, failed, and that's why most of it, so HDZ now came with these new changes where he probably met the needs of his coalition partners to raise enough hands for this law to pass, so there are some new municipalities and that is, in any case, political engineering that we do not justify. If in this law we were to respect the procedure and comply with the criteria, we would be in favor of this law anyway. Which means procedure. The procedure is what the law says and how something can be done, and the criteria in the first order should be taken into account by the criteria that certain municipalities should meet. Because this way, when we don't have any criteria about it, I've talked about it every floor last night, if not every floor then every nut entry could be its municipality with its chief and certainly would have a higher budget than at least two, three of these new municipalities that we're proposing right now. When there are no criteria, and these criteria must be entered by the regionalisation of Croatia because 3000 inhabitants at sea and 3000 residents in Slavonia are not the same without talking about a Zagreb ring or about the Holy Sunday that we have heard about the budget it has. It is not exactly the same, not the same, because there is Gunja, a municipality of Gunja that has only 326 or some employees with 5300 inhabitants. The rest of them are farming, and trust me, their budget will never be equal to, say, the Pakostans who have 3 thousand 500 inhabitants. There are no criteria and, due to the absence of criteria, many municipalities should be abolished. We're afraid of it, of course we're afraid because we know that that community we're taking out in that space is probably never going to get another election. But we don't do well for Croatia. Now, at this point in time, with this law, we're going to have 560 of the city's municipalities. In a small space like this with four and a half million inhabitants. So four and a half million inhabitants are larger European cities run by one mayor. And we have 560. It's 560 ficus, it's 560 cars, secretaries and not counting any further. Gentlemen, let's bring in, let's respect the procedure, let's bring in the criteria, because soon, if we continue at this rate in 10 years, we'll have at least a thousand municipalities. Every practically, every village and every village, every settlement will be one day a municipality if a couple of rural bays agree and go to start their own municipality. And if they have a link to the government, according to the Central State Office, they'll establish a municipality anyway. We cannot split Croatia in this way because it is not for the benefit of the citizens and is not for the benefit of the will of the citizens we have been talking about here the whole time.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71352	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71353	Thank you, Mr. President. So we need to make it right to our colleague right now that 3,000 citizens at sea and 3,000 people inside are the same, exactly the same fellow. Or at least express yourself precisely, and then talk about other terms. Because 3,000 citizens at sea and 3,000 citizens in the interior are exactly the same. Second thing, you're talking about political engineering. You're talking about tickling Croatia. So decide, it's not about political engineering, it's about citizens' rights to form local self-government. You're saying that Croatia is cleaved. Make up your mind whether you're for decentralisation or not. One day you're looking for decentralisation, now that you're giving that possibility to the citizens, then you're against the split of that same state. Therefore, give a little more precision, consistency, and address the regiment as he deserves it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71354	Club of HDZ Representatives, esteemed representative Lino Cervar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71355	Mr. President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club, as well as in 2005 today, supports the final proposal of the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, which sets up new units of local self-government and changes, noting that the Proposer will surely consider amendments to the status of some of the 9 new municipalities. And I think we're in tune with the other parties. Last time, as this time, the debate dominates the notion that it is nothing more than electoral engineering, that it is a collection of political points and that some of the municipalities do not have a financial foothold. I have to say, things don't work out that way. A respected representative who is not here, Mr Nenad Stazic received last year from the Ministry of Finance how our local self-government units operate. And this is what it looks like. It is proven that 427 municipalities and 123 cities operate almost all positively. And look at the wonders, of the 23 municipalities that have achieved a lack of income over the expenditure, the wealthiest Istrian County, the 6 municipalities operate with, achieve a lack of income over expenditure, and two municipalities in Istria. And everyone else, except I said the above, is doing a positive job. That's the answer you could read, and all your colleagues got on the benches. My colleagues and colleagues, why take the right? Why? For what reason do you take away the right of those municipalities that have employed the majority population, which have budget projections, so financial independence itself, to use the brains of the domicile population and their children to solve issues concerning their daily lives? From waste disposal, public lighting, kindergartens, social assistance and housing, settlement arrangements, spatial and urban planning, municipal order, education and sport, the preservation of environmental improvements, up to the development of entrepreneurship, craftsmanship and speed of rationality and efficiency. My colleagues and colleagues, local self-government units want simple autonomy, capital availability. It comes to you like if my salary was distributed by my neighbor, it's not working. As for the small size of the municipalities. In Croatia, only 5 and a half per cent of units have fewer than a thousand inhabitants. While in Hungary there are 55%, in Slovakia 68%, in the Czech Republic 80%, there are 3,000 100 municipalities in Switzerland, in France 36,000. I think the creation of small municipalities is one of the best moves in terms of regionalization. If they do not continue to support it, the monocentreism of large municipalities that concentrate in their power will again occur. And to conclude, our Croatian state unit is the sum of our total individualities, our family communities, our villages and villages, cities and municipalities, regions and counties. Only such Croatia, only Croatia which does not exercise violence and control over individuals and important, are individuals important, Mr Jurjevic, and people over the people's disposal is the picture of Croatia that we want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71356	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71357	It says distinguished MP Cervar, both today and before, the HDZ gives support to new municipalities. Wrong quote. None of the MPs here are against small municipalities, but they're all against falsifying electoral will. And that can only be avoided by regular elections in 2009. What kind of government is Mr. Cervar who says no for Tar Vabriga in 2004 and today?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71358	That's not a question. ... Correction. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Comrade Cain, this is not a correction to an incorrect quote! It's asking questions, rhetorical questions and controversy with MP Cervar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71359	... I'm asking myself a question, how is the government that... [[Specially enabled.]] [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71360	Thank you very much. The second correction, a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71361	He says counterpart Cervar wants him to say it's on behalf of the club, which is not true, that citizens have their own money. That's what you say. And for what? And if that isn't the case, the unrefusable fact that you've been refusing to do so for the second year on which you stand, which I say is not true, because you refuse to form a municipality of Zaton that wants to own money, have the consent of the city of Nina for the separation, have the consent of the County Assembly and you don't allow it. Then how can you support a proposal like this? Or you could just back my amendment on that trail to make them believe you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71362	This extension is not a correction of an incorrect quote but again a proposal one... you refer the proposal...... A confession is just one thing. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And club IDS, respected representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71363	Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. No one here is against small municipalities, but what's done is irresponsible, it's harmful, it's arrogant, it's highly perfidious. It does not come from the interest of small people, but rather from the interest of the policy option proposed by those solutions. And that means what everyone's saying, at least from this part of the assembly, political engineering. Because that these proposals are Mr. Cervar, that these proposals are pure politics confirms the Kukuljanovo case in Bakr. It is the initiative of a thousand locals of that part of Bakra only above Rijeka that the government will not hear of today. And why is that? Because before the month-two elections in Bakr, he won HDZ and they know that if he loses those Kukuljanov revenues, they can close the municipality and that is why HDZ will not form the municipality. They have no reason not to form that municipality if on the other hand they suggest the formation of three municipalities in Istria. Of course, in Istria, there's an initiative for the fourth, fifth, sixth, and tomorrow until the moment until every street is its own municipality, so at the end of the day every house must be its own. On the other hand, gentlemen, why don't we conduct a referendum in these environments and ask the citizens of Croatia what they think of 549 as the municipalities making cities plus 20 counties. Well, they'd tell all of us, so you're not gentlemen, you're not normal. Why on the other hand, before me said Kramarić, we abolished the County House. And I have an idea that the clear law goes into another reading and that we're dealing with serious things, the things that citizens want. Instead of 10 new municipalities, I say, I suggest that an additional 10 strip bars be opened urgently in Croatia, like yesterday in Zadar, and that each such bar be opened by at least two Croatian ministers as well as it happened yesterday. And I think one such initiative would be better accepted by citizens than what we're doing today. More sex, more fun, then more municipalities. No one will blame you at a strip club, but I'm sure there's a lot of people who will resent us and I suggest that if I can't have ministers for going to football games, fairies, then Parliament will give them a delegation by helping them. So much for that. The problem is gentlemen on the other hand, and when we destroy these proposals, we destroy an existing municipality or city. The best example might be Pazin, a city that suffered a massive blow due to the "Pazinka" that could have worked to allow investors who, fortunately, later opened 400 jobs in Slavonia. It is proposed to form the Drvis municipality through persons who are a Catholic society, and that is now the strongest argument to the government. The argument is not disrespecting procedure, the argument is just that. It is proposed to include Basegals from Gračišin in Pazin, but we question the interest of material people who, because of their status in the mountainous area, have certain incomes. If we were to say that we're going to pass a law like this, but the existing councils are going to exist by 2009, and then we're going to go to elections, I believe all of these misunderstandings will be eliminated. We gentlemen will eventually have illegal councils or elections in a whole series of existing now-broken electoral units. What is it other than falsifying the election will of 2005? Who has the right to do that? Neither Mr Palaric nor the Croatian Parliament, nor the Croatian Government nor the Croatian Democratic Union. I said before what if the two who are councilmen from Tara today in Poreč go to the Tar elections. What is it? You're out of two terms. There's a whole town coming into question. We have one legal vacuum, we have an illegal council, we have an election. So listen I think a reasonable proposal to go to the elections means 2009. And finally, the stories of some decentralisation through this form, even though I'm glad Mr. Cervar cried out "lived autonomy" stories are for little children. While Croatian counties have 60 to 200 million kunas not original but total revenues with decentralised resources. This is a fundamental problem of Croatian decentralisation and local self-government. How to financially strengthen Croatian counties so that the entire system of local self-government does not fall apart. And why won't the government do it? Because he knows that without money, they can't function and because he knows that every day he's going to beg some little help on the side that's simply beneath every human dignity and whoever's doing it and whoever's asking him to.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71364	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71365	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm correcting my fellow Caine's claim that this bill is harmful, arrogant, perfidious and that it is political engineering and falsifying will. So incorrect. My colleague, everything you've said is absolutely incorrect. It is exclusively about respecting the will of citizens who want to achieve their interest through the unit of local self-government they will manage, not you fellow Cain. Not you, Comrade Cain. ... Don't shut me out, colleague Cain. It doesn't make sense. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It is therefore exclusively about the realization of the will of citizens who want to achieve their interest through units of local self-government. And when you say you're not against new municipalities, then you deny yourself because you say this is a bad proposal and you won't support this law. Therefore, agree with yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71366	Honorable representative Lino Cervar, correction of an incorrect allegation. Order!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71367	Mr. President, it is an incorrect allegation that it is political engineering. It is true that we want in Istria equal development of all municipalities and that each municipality and that it has its own resources. And it can't stand, Mr. Caine, and it's not an honor for you to say in the paper, it's here, that every village in Buzestin has a better developed infrastructure than Stinjan. Because if so, then expect in the next stage the same requirement for the separation of the future municipality of Stinjan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71368	Third correction, honourable representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71369	Well, an esteemed colleague incorrectly said that the adoption of this Law would result in the illegality of city and municipal councils. The adoption of a new law has no effect on your legitimacy or legality in terms of the city and municipal councils, and I do not think that you can in any way bring this regulation into line with the functioning of the already existing city and municipal councils, no matter what the middle of the Republic of Croatia discuss.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71370	Honorable representative Zdenko Antesic for the SDP Club. Five minutes of debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71371	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. The SDP Club's position is to respect the will of citizens who, under the Constitution and the law, want to organise themselves into their own unit of local self-government and such initiatives where there is an economic, logical, historical meaning, the SDP will support. However, the proposed legal text of the SDP Club has serious objections. First, when it comes to the establishment of municipalities, the Law defines that the municipality is made up of, or a unit of local self-government, areas of several inhabited areas which represent a natural, economic and social whole and which are linked to the common interest of the population. These are the case of the municipality, the proposal for Funtana, Lopar, Podvinj, Tribunj and S.H.I.E.L.D. is not true. So it's about the exception. So this fact itself says that there is an exception to the law. Furthermore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Central State Administration Office, advocated its programming documents for real decentralisation, and against the irrational increase in the number of units of local self-government. On the other hand, it puts law into the legal procedure, which, among other things, re-proposes the establishment of new municipalities that have neither material nor human resources to fulfil their constitutional and legal obligations. So to support this, I will quote from the list "Informor" Mrs. Nives Kopatitić-Škrec, who literally writes: "The existing experiences of the system of local and particularly regional self-government indicate the need for significant changes. On the one hand, a large number of units of local self-government and employees in its various administrative bodies are having an impact on the level of public spending while on the other hand the centralisation of many administrative activities is an obstacle to the more efficient work of the local self-government body." On the one hand, the same body opposes the irrational increase in units of local self-government, on the other hand proposing such units that certainly do not have minimum conditions for self-function. In the proposal for a new Law, the Proposer shall speak on a voluntary basis in Articles 30, 31 and 32 on the possibilities of establishing new units of local self-government and thus is not defined at all how exactly citizens should declare their wish, i.e. initiative. Is, then, not suggested in what way, i.e. the deadlines in which this initiative should be put into the legal procedure. Article 33 is replaced by the following: The government, i.e. that elections in newly established units will be held within 120 days, and what will happen in the rest is not defined. So in the part from which some parts of the territory are amputated and which are the rights of those parts. Because, as has been said many times in the debate, it remains in many cases, such as the one in question. The Vinodol municipality, the Vrsi municipality, or others where more than 50% of the political body comes out. These councils, in our opinion, are completely illegal and they have no political legitimacy. We therefore propose that either this law be applied after the next regular elections or that elections be held throughout the territory where changes are made. And finally, afterwards, it must say that after the electoral engineering of the previous local elections, the government is now conducting legal engineering that wants to create enclaves on the ground in terms of municipalities that do not have real conditions to meet the needs of its inhabitants. In this approach, it does not respect the same criteria for all initiatives and respects only its narrow party interests and interests of those who will allow these interests to be realised. For example, the Zatona initiative is being properly rejected and the Vinodolska municipality initiative, which has no conditions for its own operation, is being accepted. The law is inconclusive, unconsistent, superficial, crafty, and leaves the possibility of manipulation and so that every political group can end cities, municipalities, as it stands with its ties in the government and at its own request. That's why the SDP Club can't support a proposal like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71372	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71373	Thank you, Mr. President. I am correcting the incorrect assumption that these municipalities have no material or human resources to function normally. That's just not true. This is simply not true because the people themselves have assessed it, and here the State Administration gives them the right to have both human resources and material opportunities so that they can function as a separate unit, as a municipality. Well, I think it's a long time behind us when some citizens had some rights, and others didn't. To paraphrasise Orwell: "We no longer live in a state or in a social arrangement where everyone is equal, and only some are more equal." Fortunately, we no longer live in such conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71374	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Lino Cervar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71375	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it's an incorrect assumption that it's legal engineering with the aim of creating inclaves. I think this bill respects the will of the people to create small municipalities. It's one of the best moves in terms of regionalization. If they do not continue to support it, the monocentreism of large municipalities will again occur when everything is concentrated in the center of a municipality which is not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71376	And the esteemed representative of the Crown of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71377	An incorrect colleague said this bill is superficial, inconsistencies. It was he who continued and sublimed all the practice so far and a single bill was passed in view of the changes and additions so far using just practical experiences, while fostering the democratic gain I would say from the beginning, from the statutes of Dalmatian cities when it is precisely this that one crown in the areas of municipalities, cities and counties, therefore it should be brought as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71378	For the HSS club, the esteemed representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71379	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This is a very sensitive topic and therefore the HSS club will be completely clear, but also fair to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the context of our understanding of these proposals, as well as the broader circumstances that can definitely be said to have prevailed in the debates of this topic. I will say on behalf of the HSS Club yesterday, the HSS Club has always supported all the valid views and proposals that led to citizens' initiatives to the Proposal for a Law establishing new municipalities or cities. The HSS club was always without signs, no matter whether it was in the position of the government or in the position of the opposition behaves equally, so it will behave today. All that is valid and based on legal solutions, all that is in accordance with the procedure, and all that is in line with the practice so far, is an obligation for us to vote for it. We hold that no one has the right to have a personal position or a personal position in local self-government, whether in the political life of this country, to have different arguments for the assessment of this or that bill. I think when it comes to citizens' initiatives, and we are creating the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, legislative acts relying on the European Charter of Local Self-Government opened up space for our citizens that they can also, within the framework of civil life, civil society, express themselves in the framework of political initiatives how they want to organise their own life in their own unit of local self-government. For us at the HSS club, it is quite understandable that our citizens are increasingly trying to organize their own lives within their small municipalities, small units of local self-government. And according to us at the HSS club, it is not a question of how many municipalities and cities Croatia will have, but of how the municipalities and cities will be, and above all, how they will be organised. The number doesn't talk about anything. What I said yesterday is more important than whether it is necessary for us to have as many professionals as we have or can voluntarily resolve a certain form of governance, but to be specific as time stands out, we believe that all of these 9 municipalities if they have properly responded to what the law assumes must be declared municipalities. There is no alibi that those who have done right by Tribunj, by Lopar, by Vrsi, by Štilar, by Štir, I apologize to Tar Vabriga not to be declared units of local self-government to new units of local self-government. In what way and the time when elections will take place, let the legislator do it again in accordance with the law. The HSS Club has a comment after the debate, primarily Mr Doric, but also from information from the field that it would be valid to withdraw the proposal for the Vinodol Municipality for the reason that a procedural error occurred. Also to withdraw the proposal for the Municipality of Trvis for the same reason as there was a procedural error. We do not want to say that these units of local self-government do not have the right, but today the procedure is not brought in line with practice, in line with the valid reasons for this Parliament to be equal to everyone. For this reason, I call on the gentlemen and the ruling side and colleagues who have not agreed from the opposition so far with these solutions that in the interest of citizens to bring a consensus, a solution to what has the right reasons to accept, which is these 7 new units of local self-government and I call on you to do so by consensus, I think that this way we will charge those efforts to those who, two years ago, were to get the municipality and the city, but there they have not received it because indeed those where there is no problem, let us show that our responsibility is above the difference in the political sense we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71380	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71381	... [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71382	My colleague Cain, the correction of an incorrect quote. Thank you very much. And come on, why don't you stick to the Rules of Procedure? You have countless situations when you can plead, but you deliberately go against the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Zlatko Kramaric, Club of HSLS Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71383	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I think it is high time that the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political Affairs were convened as soon as possible, in order to bring in one necessary correction not to allow replicas within the same club. It's usually a political moaning that's not even funny. ... I'm just asking that it be done as soon as possible because even a legislator can't really predict how much the imagination of some MPs can, when they wave, when it comes to power it starts to behave. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But let's go back to this problem of ours now. I don't know if you know how Socrates defined the truth. Socrates said nicely that the truth about the same is always the same and it would be good if many of us took our phonograms and really showed that we were talking about the same thing or we were a little bit over what position we were a little joked about with that truth. I have been sitting here since 92, and I was one of the people who brought between Christmas and New Year 1992 a new territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia and then there were a lot fewer municipalities and a lot fewer towns, I only say the county did not change in the meantime. And then every MP who holds on to himself had to bring one municipality is how to prove his power, his influence in the Parliament, rather than to prove that he could really be, to play a little cartographer and to show how he was able to bring the community to his voters. Globally we've been talking about how this monotypic approach prevails. If that's how it's done, if it's going to be decentralisation, if those criteria are shown above all financially, then it could go away. But we're, like, fifteen years old, we've been following this monotypic principle, and we can't possibly make these distances between cities, smaller cities, middle towns, municipalities because nobody here wonders what the political implications of establishing new municipalities are. This means that each party would have to establish its own branch in that municipality. I mean, all of this together may seem very irrelevant as if it were an accident, but in addition to these economic implications, we have political implications. And no one has ever done any simulation of how much a citizen is worth in certain of our municipalities so that it can be shown that the taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia cannot actually bear this inflation of municipalities and cities. I say thank God the county doesn't change. Normally, we can now say that there are certain and justifiable reasons that some times this municipality shows itself that it can really finance itself and itself even though I have to admit I am not certain to the end of what my colleague Doric was showing with those three tiles. I'm afraid it's actually being spent mostly, that we simply have local and regional self-government and management too expensive, that it's too expensive and that very often it's only really in function to satisfy certain political elites. I used to say that very often. Here, Ante's got the municipality so why don't it and Mate over the stream can also get the municipality. I apologize for these uses of names, they don't have any, every coincidence with some names is random. And in the end, I... I expect to say we're going, we're doing a paradox to the end of the game. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm surprised the Republic of Pescenica hasn't asked for the status of the city, they have a very good pirate, they have the structure of the government, and we might have one and such demand here. So I'm saying, I'm afraid what's missing is missing from this one, but let's be honest. That's why I've said the same thing every time, and to all those governments and before that, one serious analysis of what it is to us local self-government, what we are to her, which is the European Charter of Local Self-Government that we so often call upon, which is decentralisation and what really are all these aspects except that naked fact that we are for decentralisation which it should cover. And yet I say, I can only speak in principle, I don't come from these parts, I really don't know how streams go, where those borders are, where they're too much and where they don't matter, and I'm afraid they're doing it by heart again and there's too much bad political will, and I think that practice should stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71384	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71385	Your Honor, Mr. President... says Mr. Kramaric, I am correcting it, says every party in each municipality will have to have a branch. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not prescribed at all by this law and if a question was prescribed how many parties would remain on... Croatia, it's a very dangerous thing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71386	And the esteemed representative, Lino Cervar, is correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71387	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I respect the esteemed representative Kramarić. I'm just a little bit of a fixer-upper, I don't think that's it, we shouldn't be afraid, it's not inflation, it's a community. It is simply a democratic right of local self-government units to manage their resources, to develop as they consider best. That's what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71388	Final review of Secretary of State of the Central Office Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71389	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Here is the final presentation of the esteemed representative Kramarić reminded me of the autumn of 92 years ago when we began to change all laws and to pass all laws concerning local self-government, and so did the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities. I had the honour of working on this matter at the time, and I know that every law followed a heated debate, that everyone had come from their own ends, fought for the interests of their end, but that every law was a step forward in the development of local self-government and Croatia, and we have now brought it to a system that functions very well in the interests of citizens where a new unit of local self-government was founded. We have carefully heard all today's debates and yesterday's until late in the night and the arguments that have been made, and when we declare the amendments, we will accept and believe that with these amendments, this law will receive a large majority of MPs and will finally remain the constitutional principle, which is that the areas of the county, cities and municipalities are governed by the law and the laws are passed by the Croatian Parliament. Thank you all for the exhaustive debate, for the arguments made. If the debate was bile, we knew it would be, but it's just that kind of matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71390	I'm concluding a debate on this final bill. Let's go to the vote on the debated drafts of the law. Final proposal of the Law on districts, towns and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. First we have a proposal from the IDS Representatives Club, which is proposed: The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to carry out an analysis of the final proposal of the Law on Countys, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia and to refer the law to the second reading. So, IDS suggests that the law be referred to another reading. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? 39 for, 5 abstentions, 70 against. So, it's not a second reading, but we're going to vote and discuss the amendments. State Secretary Antun Palaric. Here you go. An amendment from one of the representatives of Zeljko Ledinsky.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71392	The government doesn't accept. Opatija Gornja is not an independent settlement, so we believe it cannot even be the subject of the establishment of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71393	Representative Zeljko Ledinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71394	Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71395	The vote. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? 23 votes for the amendment, 9 abstentions, 67 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Other representatives of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71396	The government does not accept because the detachment of these settlements from the city of Bakar, which is opposed by both the County Assembly and the City of Bakar, would call into question the functioning of the economic city of Bakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71397	Order! She's a representative of Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71398	Well, I can't accept such an explanation since for other units of local self-government in the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, the County Assembly expressed a negative opinion, so that was not enough reason for the government not to include these proposals in the law, so I ask the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71399	Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? 25 for, 7 abstentions, 72 against. The amendment didn't get the required majority. Third representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71400	The Government accepts the content of this amendment but in the government's formulation, which would read: Article 11. VIII Primorje goranska County under regular number 20 of Rinodol municipalities is deleted and under regular number 21. Vinodolska municipality near Briber village is added to the settlements of Drvenik, Križana, Bergrad and Tribalj, and so far the regular numbers of municipalities of 21st, 22nd and 23rd become regular numbers of municipalities of 20th, 21st and 22nd.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71401	Representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71402	I thank you very much on behalf of all those who wanted that part to remain the same as the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71403	The amendment becomes an integral part of the law in this amended form. 4., MP Zdravko Sočković.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71404	The government accepts this amendment in content, but also in the government's formulation for style. So in Article 15. XII Brod-Posavia County, Municipality under regular number 18. The suits are deleted, and in the city under regular number 2. Slavonski Brod is added to the village of Odinje. So far, regular numbers from 19 to 27 become regular numbers from 18 to 26.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71405	Representative Zdravko Sočković.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71406	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think it's one reasonable solution, I think the citizens will be pleased.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71407	Thank you. In the amended form of amendments, it becomes an integral part of the law. It is an identical amendment and representative of Zdravka, Mate Gavrana. So he's also an integral part of this consummated and integral part of the law. Amendment 6th Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71408	The government does not accept, the future proposed Zaton Municipality would only have 527 inhabitants, which is too small for us to establish a new municipality.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71409	Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71410	Mr. Secretary of State what you just said is incorrect. I don't know where you got that information. He's an incorrect piece of information. I won't say it's fake but it's incorrect. Here all the high and highest standards and legal standards are met and those that are otherwise needed and should also be in the proposals and run those highest standards. We have the conclusion of the County Assembly of Zadar County that allows the establishment of the municipality, then the conclusion of the City Council of the City of Nin which is also agreed to establish the Municipality of Zaton. We have an undeniable fact that Zaton already belongs to the richest tourist resorts in the Republic of Croatia. And you have now invented this information just to find such a reason. It's not correct, it's not an honor. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71411	Order! Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 33 for, 9 abstentions, 67 against didn't get the necessary majority. 7th Amendment of Representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71412	The government doesn't accept. It does not accept that the settlement of Seona from the Municipality of Donja Motičina is being singled out because it would endanger its functioning.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71413	Representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71414	Thank you. It's pretty clear to me, because my intention was, and the intention of those people who are part of the Lower Mottice Community is to shut down that community because they can't exist like this. I thank you for giving me the time to make that possibility for Seana settlement if I can agree with those locals to join or St. Martin at the Mura or the City of Rab if they want to accept us, so we will come up with such an amendment in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71415	Vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71416	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71417	Amendment withdrawn, number seven. Then make it clear. ... To vote, please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The result? 35 for, 6 abstentions, 63 against the amendment didn't get the required majority. 8th also representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71418	The government does not accept the same reasoning as the 76th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71419	Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71420	I'm not even asking for a vote this time because I know what it's gonna be like.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71421	Amendment withdrawn. Nine. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71422	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71423	It becomes an integral part of the law. The 10th representative of Furia Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71424	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71425	It becomes an integral part of the law. 12th MPs, 11th MPs Antun Peruška, Silvana Hrelje, Dorotee Pesic Bukovac, Valter Poropata, Damir Kajin and Valter Drandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71426	The government accepts, but Mr. President at the end of the amendment, the government would add a sentence that reads: "The current regular numbers 29 to 32 become regular numbers 28 to 31.".
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71427	What does that mean?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71428	This means that when the First Municipality is deleted under regular 28, all those municipalities move forward by regular number and yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71429	Well, clearly that's it, so it doesn't have to be out to move regular numbers. Representatives, on behalf of the representatives of those who have proposed the amendment and who has been accepted? All right, consensual. An amendment accepted in this section. Amendment 12 of the same MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71430	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71431	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 13 of Representative Anthony Peru.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71432	The government doesn't accept it, because according to our information, these are not independent settlements. We have not been provided with information that they were founded in the meantime as independent settlements.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71433	Representative Antun Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71434	His goal was to just confirm what was really going on. This village Vinkuran and Vintijan are centuries old settlements, independent. There is a 153-year-old Croatian school in Vinkuran and I tried this amendment. They may not have heard from the ministry, but it was really normal to correct this obvious mistake. And the village of Pjescana cove is that of a newer date, but still about 35 years old. But I repeat, Vinkuran and Vintijan are centuries old settlements, and in Vinkuran there is a 153 year old Croatian school. And please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71435	Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? 41 for, 5 abstentions, 63 against, did not get the required majority. Gentlemen and ladies, may I have your peace, please? Amendment 14 of Dragutin Lesar's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71436	The government doesn't accept. The referendum is a form of decision. The area structure is not subject to local importance that local self-government could be decided at the level of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71437	Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71438	Thank you very much. The referendum is also a way of deciding citizens towards both the Constitution and the Law on Local Self-Government. If the citizens in the referendum deny them the right to decide which municipality they will be in, in which city they will be, whether they will move or change their borders, and you remain at the gathering of opinions with toilet bags or shrubs, then I would like the vote that the Parliament also confirms such a position, that the citizens instead of the referendum decide with carded papers.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71439	Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 38 for, 6 abstentions, 66 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 15 amendments to the representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71440	It is not accepted, given that these are very complex items where it is often necessary and to obtain opinions of different professions, therefore it should not be bound by such short deadlines...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71441	Representative Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71442	The municipalities have a short time for agreement and 30 days for appeal. If they miss the deadline, they've also missed the right to appeal. I proposed an amendment under which the Government would appeal if two municipalities or two cities failed to reach an agreement in the division of property borders in the second amendment, a solution and a decision should be made within 90 days of receipt of the appeal. The government's 90 days is not enough, and municipalities and cities have 30 days to appeal and 60 days to settle the deal. We have 10 new municipalities, there will be 10 new disputes. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71443	Please vote on Amendment 15. You're welcome to engage. To vote. The result? 37 for, 7 abstentions, 66 against. The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 16, also representing Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71444	Mr. President, this amendment was actually a representative of Lesar who explained the deadline that he would legally prescribe for the government. I'm staying with the same reasons. It is very complex cases when it is necessary to carry out and see, in particular, if they are brought up and objected and we suggest that the amendment is not accepted so as not to make decisions quickly that would not satisfy the units of local self-government that are in the dispute.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71445	Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71446	... The statement by the Government's representative reads or means that only very simple items are allowed to come before the Government for resolution and therefore I ask for a very complex vote. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71447	Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 38 votes for, nine abstentions, 64 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 17 of Dragutin Lesar's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71448	The Government does not accept the same reasoning as Amendment 14. The referendum is a form of decision. The regional structure is a state issue decided by the Croatian Parliament and cannot be called around a local referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71449	Representative Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71450	With the same explanation, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71451	To vote. Please engage. The result? 37 votes for, 7 abstentions, 66 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 18, Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71452	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71453	It becomes an integral part of the law. 19, Agent Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71454	It's unacceptable. We suggest that there remain a formulation of the law so that elections can be called and established and newly formed units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71455	Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71456	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'd like you to meet Mr. MPs. What am I proposing with this amendment? I propose that the Government of the Republic of Croatia call the elections in a regular period, meaning... In 2005, and all with the aim of avoiding doubts about the electoral... [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]] who will follow the bearers of this law. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]] No one has anything against small municipalities, no one is against the new small municipalities provided they have passed a certain procedure, provided they have conditions clear to life. But in order to just avoid doubts about election engineering, we suggest that this, this possibility be removed by the basis of this amendment. What happens, gentlemen, if there is a councilman now who will participate in the elections in that new municipality? So it is the order that such circumstances that could lead to unfair councils are avoided and I hold that a higher than one non-political than a formal opportunity, the legality of the legislative proposal itself should be supported by the amendment that I propose.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71457	Please engage. Please vote. The result? 33 for, 10 abstentions, 66 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 20, Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71458	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71459	It becomes an integral part of the law. 21, same board.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71460	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71461	It becomes an integral part of the law. And 22, same board.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71462	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71463	It becomes an integral part of the law. Thank you. I am voting on the final draft of the law... What? ... On behalf of the SDP club, respected representative Milanka Opačić. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71464	On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. President, I'd like to request a 10-minute recess, since some amendments have been accepted, due to voting consultations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71465	Thank you. Ten minutes. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, 10 minutes have elapsed. I ask the representative of SDP's Club of Representatives, representative Milanko Opačić, to present his position on behalf of the Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71467	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the SDP Club, I would like to say that we are glad that the government has accepted our argument that one part of the municipalities and cities is included in the legal procedure without respecting this same law. The SDP supports the Law on Local Self-Government and the right of citizens to establish new boundaries of municipalities and cities in legal procedure, but we also use this opportunity once again to warn that there are units of local self-government in which the procedure was implemented in accordance with the Law, but they did not find themselves in this same Law. Here's the case with the Law that was just changed and mentioned, but was rejected by the government. The SDP continues to oppose the collapse of standards for the establishment of new municipalities and cities, as only those who stand out are asked, and does not care about those who stay and thus disrupt their economic survival. This kind of work unfortunately opens the way to election engineering. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-11-0.u71468	Thank you. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on County, City and Municipal Areas. The adoption of the Law requires a majority of the votes of all MPs, at least 77 votes in favour, pursuant to Article 226. Rules of Procedure. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? Order! [[Applause.]] Order! Gentlemen, those of you who are guests of the gallery, there are no signs of approval or anyone else. Hold still. With 94 votes for, 18 abstentions, 9 against the proposed Law was adopted in the text as proposed by the government along with the amendments adopted. We're going to the next point. - Final draft law supplementing the Law on Obligations and Rights of State officials, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 527; the debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. State Secretary of the Central State Administration Antun Palaric will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
