ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72295	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In front of the government, the Ministry of Finance proposes the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Federal Republic of Germany on the avoidance of double taxation of income and property taxes. What is important, therefore, to point out in this proposal is that the delegation of the Republic of Croatia and the Federal Republic of Germany met at the first negotiations to begin in '97. three more rounds of negotiations on the alignment of this Treaty on the avoidance of double taxation of income taxes and property taxes between the Republic of Croatia and the Federal Republic of Germany were held and thereafter. In the event of the conclusion of this Treaty, the model of the arrangements applicable in the OECD Member States should be noted, so that the Member States of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and, to that end, the signing, i.e. this contract, has been made according to all international criteria. The Treaty has made it easier to tax all types of income, as well as to improve the conditions for increasing the mutual exchange of goods and services and, of course, to increase both countries' overall economic activity in the following way. Therefore, the term resident is defined to avoid double taxation of Croatian residents, but it also prevents the avoidance of double income tax. It is possible for Croatian construction and similar companies to not pay profit tax in the Federal Republic of Germany if the works last less than 12 months. It is possible for Croatian airlines and shipping companies carrying out the transport of goods between the Republic of Croatia and the Federal Republic of Germany, thus paying taxes on profits obtained exclusively in the Republic of Croatia. Taxation of dividends has established a rate of tax per deduction of 5% at a share of more than 10 and 15% and in all other cases. Interests and copyright fees paid to the resident of the Republic of Croatia will only be taxed in the Republic of Croatia if, of course, the resident is a real user of these works. The final provisions of this Treaty, which are in front of you, stipulated that Croatian societies in the Federal Republic of Germany will have the same status and convenience as those of that state. Therefore, given the nature of the procedure to confirm international contracts with which the state and formally express its willingness to be bound by an already signed international contract and the fact that amendments and additions to the text of the international contract cannot be carried out at this stage of the procedure, the Government proposes that this law be discussed and adopted by means of an urgent procedure, uniting first and second readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72296	Thank you. Committees on legislation, finance and the state budget. I'm opening a debate. For the club of the HNS, the esteemed representative of Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72297	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Perhaps, however, the exceptional reason for this confirmation of the contract to be discussed is because between the Republic of Germany and the Republic of Croatia there is a very large exchange and performance of jobs and workforce and a lot of our people are working there, making income and profit, and that would be the main reason why I am involved in this debate. Especially since such a large business is being done in the area of construction. When a natural person earns income in a country where he is not resident, then income tax in that country, but also in a country whose natural person is the recipient of income or residence. In order to avoid undue taxation of the same income or property and in the country in which it arises and in the country of residence of that income, unilateral and bilateral measures to avoid double taxation shall apply. Bilateral measures to avoid double taxation are laid down by contracts to avoid that double taxation. Therefore, in taxing the foreign income of foreign taxpayers and the domestic income of foreign taxpayers, it is necessary to determine whether the Republic of Croatia is applying the Treaty on the avoidance of double taxation and such a contract has not been concluded by the Republic of Croatia with certain countries. Bilateral agreements between individual countries on the avoidance of double taxation are mainly directed according to visual examples of contracts developed by various international organisations with the aim of bringing national law into line. In particular, in the field of inheritance and donation taxation, we have a model of the OECD contract which was and is still a contract whose model of the Contracting State is most often contracted to avoid that double taxation. The objective of the OECD Treaty is to avoid this double taxation so that legal taxation is in principle limited to two countries and to the state where the property is located, i.e. the property of a business unit or the country of residence of the leaver or donor. And this contract that is before us is made according to this model of the Double Taxation Treaty. Why are these contracts important? If a domestic taxpayer paid a tax abroad on profits obtained abroad, that tax paid to him will be paid in cases where Croatia with a country in which the profit was achieved does not have a Double Taxation avoidance Treaty to be included in the tax up to the amount of profit tax it would pay abroad. A foreign taxpayer who has gained profits by operating abroad, and with the country in which he made his profits, a contract on avoidance of double taxation is concluded, is not obliged to provide any evidence to the tax administration for accounting profits. Since Croatia has with most important states those contracts, emigrants who are owners of companies outside, who are setting up outposts in Croatia or are owners of companies in Croatia that have exposures abroad do not have to fear taxation in both countries, which significantly facilitates business planning and increases the overall profits of the company. On the other hand, Croatian companies that get jobs in the markets of countries with which our country does not have social insurance and double taxation contracts can face numerous unforeseen costs and administrative obstacles. It shows a good example of Zagreb's Dalekvoda, which received a job in Iceland in an international contest last year, and concluded an agreement on the implementation of electricity facilities. In accordance with the conditions of the Dalekovod tender, a branch was established in Iceland, but as Croatia does not have a social insurance contract with the Nordic country, the question of how to pay for the social security of power workers has been raised. In fact, workers of the company who contract work with the Dalekvoda branch in Rakekjavik also contribute to other social security contributions, are paid in Iceland, where they are not recognised in Croatia either work experience or insurance for that period. In addition to social insurance contracts, the exit of Croatian companies to foreign markets depends largely on whether we have a contract to avoid double taxation. In fact, by avoiding double taxation of the taxpayer as a legal person and as a natural person, it seeks to tax fiscally on double tax in two countries and thus to pay the tax only in one of the countries. It is also important to highlight the state's status in international frameworks, in this case Croatia, because the number of contracts concluded represents a country in the world as prosperous and economically attractive to potential investors. In addition to enabling the economic growth of double taxation contracts to provide a transparent international insight into the possible illegal business of taxpayers. The Republic of Croatia has concluded over the past 43 contracts to avoid double taxation with a number of other countries still under way to negotiate new contracts. However, specifically this contract with the Federal Republic of Germany is of exceptional importance both because of the extremely large number of Croatian citizens working in the country and because of growing trade and economic co-operation in general between the two countries. For this reason, the conclusion of such a contract should certainly be welcomed. This contract is quite favourable for the Republic of Croatia. Some would say even suspiciously favourable. It avoids double taxation of Croatian residents. Croatian construction and similar companies are allowed not to pay profit tax in the Federal Republic of Germany if these works last less than 12 months. Croatian airlines and maritime companies carrying out the transport of goods and passengers between the Republic of Croatia and the Federal Republic of Germany shall be allowed to pay taxes on profits obtained exclusively in the Republic of Croatia. The contract also prescribed that Croatian societies in the Federal Republic would have the same status and benefits as those of the state. On the one hand, this is a bilateral contract, which means that things are arranged in an identical or very similar way for both countries. However, if we take a closer look at the consequences of such arrangements, we will see that SR Germany gets more than the Republic of Croatia. Germany's construction or similar companies will most likely have much greater profits in Croatia than Croatia in Germany. So that's how most of the tax will get SR Germany again. We're talking about airlines and maritime societies not to talk. On the other hand, you can't say that it's a mistake to ratify this contract because the Republic of Croatia really gets a lot. However, I call for caution because in international relations absolutely nothing is free and the only question is how we will be forced to repay all these benefits. Of course, we at the HNS Club will support the confirmation of this contract. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72298	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Second, the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Federal Republic of Germany on the avoidance of double taxation of income and property taxes. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? unanimously with 86 votes in favour, the proposed conclusion was adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72301	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. International Convention on Civil Responsibility for Contamination of the Sea... With fuel from 2001, it is one of the international instruments that the International Maritime Organisation has developed to protect the sea against ship oil pollution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This international system of responsibility can be divided into two parts. On the one hand, the international system of responsibility relating to pollution may need oil from tankers regardless of whether it is a load or a fuel fuel. And on the other hand, this part that defines, determines, regulates this Convention that we are proposing today to adopt, which refers to, possibly sea pollution by oil used by ships as fuel, and these ships are not tankers. This first part of the international civil responsibility system for sea pollution of oil from tankers was resolved by international conventions established by the International Maritime Organisation in 1992 and which the Republic of Croatia ratified or confirmed... These international conventions have practically identified the ship's responsibility for oil pollution, whether from tankers full or empty at about $140 million to how much a single shipowner would have to pay to a country that is damaged or to a legal person in that country if such pollution occurred. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The second part of the same part of 1992 found the responsibility of shipowners who, in the event that their load of tankers had polluted the sea, should pay about 307 million dollars and in this first system of responsibility the total damage that a single country could compensate from that international system was $440, therefore, millions of dollars, total damage. As tankers today clearly carry where and where larger amounts of cargo, how these damages can be significantly greater through the 2003 protocol to this system of international responsibility has increased the total amount that a single country can compensate for to the amount of billions and 133 million dollars and this protocol has ratified in March this year. In this way, we adopted the first part adopted by the International Maritime Organisation and adopted in the Republic of Croatia, so I repeat finally with March this year when by adopting and ratifying this Protocol of the International Maritime Organisation, we have therefore complete these international instruments that define that part of international responsibility. In recent times, however, more than 50% of the sea pollution and damage claims have been found to come from tankers rather than large ships that often carry more oil in their bunkers, more fuel than some smaller tankers carry loads. And for this reason, the International Maritime Organisation in 2001 developed a convention like this which we therefore propose to adopt and which therefore obliges all members of the International Maritime Organisation when the Convention enters into force under its provisions to implement, with all national legislation, all of these provisions defined by the International Convention. The Convention itself refers, therefore, to the territorial sea and to the economic belt of a particular country and practically extends not only to shipowners and shipowners but also to the tenant and manager on a particular ship and thus significantly extends the possibility and gives greater authority to a party whose territory or aquatorium is better said to have an accident that can be better accessible to resolve the damages itself. Otherwise, a shipowner who has a ship of more than a thousand tonnes is obliged to his country, or where the ship is registered with an internationally recognised organisation, to obtain a certificate that the ship is secured at the amount that depends on the size of the ship and thus clearly provides guarantees to the State on whose territory or aquaculture such damage may occur that it is very simple to make up for the damage itself. What is certainly important to say is that the Convention has not yet entered into force even though it was adopted in 2001, I think this year it will come into force and, according to the Convention itself, it will take effect when it has signed 18 states, of which at least five have a fleet with a capacity greater than one million tonnes. This law or confirmation of this Convention can be seen as one of the EU laws because the European Commission has ordered all its members of the European Union to adopt this Convention by 30 June of this year in order to make it clear that it contributes to a better protection of the aquaculture of all Member States of the European Union. Since transport in the Adriatic Sea has been greatly increased and therefore there is an increasing possibility of pollution of the sea oil, the propulsion oil of ships sailing to the Adriatic we suggest that this convention be ratified here in the Assembly, therefore adopted by an emergency procedure uniting first and second readings. Otherwise, here is the symbolism for today is also the International Maritime Day. IMO DAY, which is precisely the message of the International Maritime Organisation, aims as much as possible to influence the Member States of the International Maritime Organisation to bring national regulations aimed at making protection of the sea as possible, so in this case clearly, by adopting this Convention, we also contribute to greater security and protection of the Adriatic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72302	Thank you. Legislative, Maritime, Transport and Connections Committee, Space and Environmental Protection? I'm opening a debate. For the HNS Club, the respected representative of Željko Kurtov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72303	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The 2001 Law on Confirmation of the International Convention on Civil Responsibility for damages caused by the 2001 plant oil pollution at the HNS Club agrees that the adoption of this Convention will fill the gap in the international liability regime for damages caused by sea pollution from ships. Unfortunately, in 2001, only nine countries have ratified this Convention and it takes at least eighteen of them probably not to come into force for a number of years. However, no matter when the Convention enters into force for Croatia, we can and must correct a number of shortcomings in the protection measures that need to be taken with a view to preventing or reducing any pollution. First of all, praise should be given to the way in which pollutions of the sea have been taken care of in the Primorje-Gorski and Istria County for 12 years. In fact, these two counties together with the Department of Environmental Protection in 94 obtained three eco-ships that in the day-to-night service and provide not only dropped oil but also the wide variety of waste in agreement with local self-government counties and coastal units. In addition to the three ships purchased abroad, the Ministry of Environmental Protection has made it possible to build five more ships in our shipyards, which is commendable for all. Unfortunately, according to our knowledge, only one of these ships is operational and the one in the records. The other ships are connected in the Queen, Zadar, Sibenik. Build a ship and then not equip it and not use it, more than sad. In Split, there were also two clean-up ships that allegedly also expired the contract with the ministry and are also on the line. It can be concluded from the above that no convention will save us from pollution and all its consequences for our tourism, cultural, historical and natural heritage that we can especially be proud of right along the Adriatic coast. Finally, I would like to remind you that all coastal counties are required under the law to provide for smaller sea pollution and the state handles greater pollution. We are wondering which ships and resources state would intervene in major pollution that we did not even at regional authorities ensure the functioning of the system. That is why the proposal of the HNS Club is to make contracts with companies that are qualified to carry out these tasks as soon as possible and to ensure timely protection of our coast from oil pollution. Furthermore, in the event of major pollution, it is necessary to sign a contract with neighbouring Adriatic countries on international emergency assistance in the event of such pollution. As soon as damages are covered by the Convention are resolved only after we prevent oil pollution from coming to our beaches and coastal cities. In addition to all these shortcomings that we consider in the HNS Club that we should meet, we support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72304	Thank you. Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72305	I thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues from the Ministry must say something other than, of course, commend and support this confirmation of the international convention. Internationally, the problem of liability for damages caused by sea pollution of oil used as marine fuel has been solved only in relation to tankers. That's what we've heard. The system of responsibility has been regulated by the International Convention on Civil Responsibility due to oil pollution since 1992, and is applied only to the damage caused by tankers, which means that only damages resulting from oil spillages that tankers carry as a burden as well as those used by tankers as fuel. There has been a steady increase in claims for damage caused by sea pollution of oil used as fuel on board. It is estimated that more than 50% of such claims for damages caused by sea pollution are due to pollution precisely by marine fuel. The average amount of fuel on board non-tankers, you won't believe about 14 million tons. Large container ships as well as ships for the transport of general cargo as well as passenger ships usually carry more fuel than smaller tankers so that these large container ships can board and carry up to 7 and a half thousand tonnes of fuel. In addition, the oils used to drive ships fall into the so-called so-called "ships". dirty oils that pose a much greater threat to the marine environment than certain types of oil transported as a burden. As a result of evaporation to the surface left behind a harmful trace, they are more difficult to clean up, which ultimately significantly collects cleaning costs. The International Convention on Civil Responsibility for the damage caused by sea pollution was adopted in March 2001. Under the auspices of the International Maritime Organisation at a diplomatic conference held in London. The purpose of the 2001 Convention is to establish a system of responsibility and compensation for damages and sea pollution by motor oil caused by maritime ships or by maritime navigation of any kind other than tankers. In the spirit of the above-mentioned Convention under fuel oil, all hydrocarbon mineral oils used or intended to be used for the operation or propulsion of the ship shall be considered in the spirit of that Convention. Just like the rest of the oil. The adoption of the Convention has filled the final gap in the international regime of responsibility and compensation for the damage caused by the pollution of the sea oil with ships. The Convention imposes a mandatory liability obligation on registered ship owners over 1000 tonnes, with the possibility of bringing a direct claim against the insurance undertaking. The ratification of this Convention has not yet met the formal conditions for its entry into force. Article 14 The Convention is prescribed that it should be adopted by 18 countries including 5 countries each of which has at least a million mixed tone units. So far, the Convention has been adopted by Cyprus, Jamaica, Grenada, Latvia, Luxembourg, St. Vincent, Greenland, Slovenia, Togo and Singapore. However, on the basis of the Council of Europe's decision of 19 September 2002, it was authorised by the Member States of the European Union to adopt the Convention and to make appropriate corrections with the International Maritime Organisation's secretaries. The provision of the Convention brings Croatia's maritime legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union and creates a basis for taking significant steps to protect and prevent pollution of the marine environment. Since no amendments and additions to the text of the proposed international treaty can be made at this stage of the procedure, I support the adoption and adoption of an emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72306	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this point. The final proposal for a law confirming the international Convention on Civil Responsibility for the damage caused by pollution to fuel oil from 2001. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 84 votes for, 1 abstention, a proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72309	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On 10 April 2006, on the sidelines of the second Stabilisation and Association Council, a contract was signed on 10 April 2006 on security procedures for the exchange of classified information between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union. On the Croatian side, the contract was signed by Foreign and European Integration Minister Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic, and before the European Union, Secretary-General for the Common Foreign and Security Policy Xavier Solana. In view of Croatia's candidate status for membership in the European Union and the start of membership negotiations as strengthening and expanding cooperation in all areas, the need for the security information issue for the exchange of classified information between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union has also emerged through the conclusion of an international contract. The candidate status of the Republic of Croatia creates an obligation to cooperate in the field of security leading to the need for the exchange of classified information. This also requires an appropriate legal framework. This Treaty is a fundamental legal framework defining the procedures and rules that the Contracting Parties should also respect in the process of the exchange of classified information. Classified information shall be all the data or materials required to protect against unauthorised communication and shall be assigned as such as a security classification. Procedures and rules for the exchange of classified information the security arrangements will be detailed in an international act which the authorities responsible for the implementation of this Treaty will conclude in accordance with its provisions. The Office of the National Security Council is responsible for drawing up security arrangements for the protection and storage of classified information supplied to the Republic of Croatia under the contract in question, and the implementation of the contract from the Croatian side will be supervised by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration. The subject-matter contract provides for issues related to the manner of communication between each other, the obligation to keep classified information which one party communicates to the other or to the other party, the obligation to protect such data and the security authorities that will be responsible for the implementation of the contract as well as the supervision of the implementation of this contract. Since the contract in question is one of the topics to be taken into account by the European Commission during the upcoming "screening" for Chapter 31. "Foreign Security and Defence Policy" which was, on 14 September, we held an expansion screening and a bilateral phase was scheduled for 2 October and that the European Union confirmed the contract in question we consider the necessary Act to confirm the security procedures for the exchange of classified information to be proposed to the Croatian Parliament for confirmation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72310	Thank you. The committees? Legislative, internal policy and national security? Committee President Ivan Jarnjak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72311	Thank you, Mr. President. At its 77th session on 26 September, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security discussed the proposal for a law on the confirmation of contracts between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on security procedures for the exchange of classified information with the Final Proposal for a Law. The members of the Committee are familiar with the reasons and interests of the Republic of Croatia for which it is proposed to adopt an emergency law proposal and the Committee supported the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and did not object to the proposal to adopt this law by an urgent procedure, assessing that it is of interest to the Republic of Croatia. We believe that this Treaty deepens the relations and cooperation of the Republic of Croatia and the European Union in strengthening all forms of its own security, provides a high level of security for its citizens. Following the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on security procedures for the exchange of classified information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72312	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. For the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Ivan Jarnjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72313	Dear Mr President, I would just like to say a few words when it comes to this Treaty or to the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on the security procedures for the exchange of classified information with the Final Proposal of the Law, that this is, in fact, the creation of a standard and level with which we are obliged to assume certain responsibilities in the treatment of such data as we will receive, be recipients of the European Union. This means that it is our obligation to use the secret information that we will receive from the European Union. The same is the obligation for the European Union, when it receives from the Republic of Croatia how it will treat these secret information and from the Republic of Croatia. So it is a mutual act, and I want to point out exactly this fact that the need for these turbulent times is fast and accurate teaching of classified information for the security of citizens throughout the globe, and the European Union is particularly treating this and that it is necessary to protect these secret information in an adequate way. In Croatia, we also have the Act on the Protection of Secret Information and this law in large, it is precisely in line with this Treaty and the provisions of this Treaty. However, the European Union wants to further protect its secret information that will be available to the Republic of Croatia, and I therefore believe that this is not only an act that Croatia takes over certain tasks, but is also an act of trust when the European Union concludes with the Croatian state contract and when it is ready to make such information available to the Croatian state. The absolute club of the Croatian Democratic Community will therefore support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72314	Thank you. Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. She's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative, Vice President of House Matro Arlovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72315	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I personally welcome that there is also a proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on security procedures for the exchange of classified information with the Final Proposal for the Law. In fact, these and such relations create a legal instrument for the establishment of not only the exchange of information but also common intelligence and security services of the future European Union or as a federal state or as an alliance of states in the defence of their own interests and interests. This is an extremely important issue for a common fight against organised crime, terrorism and, of course, trafficking in weapons and people, etc. Therefore, in this respect, I support the need to conclude such a contract, and in this segment it is extremely important to have the opportunity to share classified information in the fight against this modern monster of today's world, but it is also important to make sure that Croatia and as a member of the anti-terrorism coalition with its defence forces participate in a whole range of countries where peace is maintained or established with the support and decisions of the United Nations and of the European Union and NATO. But that's what's important here to point out. However, regardless, the Republic of Croatia must also take care of its sovereignty and part of its internal policy and not that international agreements actually significantly reverse relations within the country. I want to talk about it in particular. I have to remind you first that according to Article 140. The constitution, this international contract as well as others, if ratified, is also above the law, so above the Act on the Security Services of the Republic of Croatia. The second thing I have to remind is the fact that it can be applied directly and has the right to the direct application championship unless otherwise regulated by law. The third thing that arises from it is a very interesting solution which is present in Article 7 where it is said, the parties will ensure that all persons who are required access to or whose duties or functions may provide access to the classified information to be supplied, exchanged by contract, undergo an appropriate security check before accessing and obtaining such information. Dear colleagues, do you know that this means that any information that will be received from the intelligence and security services from the European Union before it is obtained by the President of the State, the Prime Minister, the President of the Parliament, or by the legislator requested by the Rules of Procedure, by his right, that these persons must undergo a re-check, an intelligence and security check. The question arises, does this actually make intelligence and security services from the authorities of the administration, even though sui generis, turn back into a center of security power, alienated powers, who controls who? It doesn't seem like the situation here is that when the government's intelligence and security services are controlled, that is, the president rather than vice versa, something is happening that's more serious. Of course, here is also indicated how he will carry out the verification procedures. The security clearance procedures will be designed to determine whether an individual, taking into account his and his loyalty, confidentiality and loyalty, can have access to classified information after the individual, for example, is elected to a large majority of all citizens as president of the state. So this isn't just a check, it's a direct check on a person, but it's actually a check on a voter's body. This is the first problem I want to point very seriously to, and in this respect it is certainly a very serious question. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In particular, Articles 11 and 12 of this Treaty provides that in the Office of the National Security Council as a national security of the Republic of Croatia, it will appear, and in the European Union, the Security Office of the Security Council, the Council of the European Union and, of course, the Security Board of the European Commission. Therefore, if we have some particularly sensitive information, for example, about the position of the Croatian Army in Afghanistan or our specialists who will teach members of the anti-terrorist coalition in the fight in Iraq, and it is estimated in the European Commission for Security that it is not good for someone, let's say the Prime Minister, because politically, so that being precise by law is not sufficiently loyal, confidential and reliable, then the commission will in fact prevent, independently of the will of our intelligence service, that these data be obtained and delivered. The question thus raises what about the internal constitutional security position, etc. In particular, this shall be further laid down in the light of Article 12, which states that the security agreement referred to in Article 11 of this Treaty will be established in agreement between three or so offices, setting standards for the mutual security of the protection of classified information covered by the contract. Now you say nice like this. The European Union has secured democratic control. For the European Union, these standards will be subject to the approval of the Council's Security Committee. In our case, these standards are not subject to the approval of the Council, say the Committee on National Security and Defence, but it is the autonomous authority of our intelligence services following the new law we passed in the parliamentary procedure. I simply had to discuss this bill for a reason to point to this situation which is extremely serious and should not happen that some who should be the service of the authorities of the executive, legislative, judicial and of course representative authorities in the Republic of Croatia become controllers of the same authority. In a democratic society, it must only be citizens' voters, it must not be a secret service that will check the elected representatives of the people whether they have the right, whether they are loyal enough, whether they are capable and trusted enough to be able to obtain some information that is of interest to national security and defence, for example their own country that they represent. I think that this is too dangerous and that in this respect I would personally advocate, that it is not possible unilaterally to refuse ratification and I do not plead to that, moreover, that such a contract is important to the exchange of the necessary data, but in a different context, in different relationships that are regulated in particular between the legislative and executive and representative authorities in relation to the intelligence security services. But it would be good to take off the emergency procedure, turn this into a first debate, first reading and take time to consult a little with it, because don't forget the European Commission and the European Council as representatives of the executive authorities have a slightly different position given the Ministerial Council which is a Member State in the European Union. But their position in relation to intelligence is regulated by their internal regulations and directives. Not with us. In fact, it will happen to us that their services will evaluate you on the basis of our verified data whether they will deliver or not provide some confidential information if, for example, they consider that they are not loyal, confidential or capable to some of the members, for example, of the executive authority who should receive that information for the sake of national security not only internally but also European security in Croatia. I think it is totally inadmissible and that the negotiators did not care enough when they were preparing and signing this contract, and therefore we should see what else can be done before this contract is finally ratified, that these issues are removed or otherwise we will have to come into a position, I warn that we will have to come in a position to prepare, to prepare a constitutional law on the position of secret services and in relation to the relationship between the secret services and the legitimately elected representatives of the authorities with us. So not on the work of both the organisation and the formation of the secret services, but on the relationship between the secret services and the president of the state, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or the Prime Minister, of the President of the Parliament, so if you want the representatives themselves who have the right, no matter how similar they are, to receive information and, of course, by law, they must properly refer to that information, to do their part of the job. For example, whether representatives who are members of NATO's delegation need and must receive such information about the situation of our defence forces in co-operation with NATO forces in Afghanistan. Well, of course they do. If we're gonna check them all, they're loyal enough, capable of getting it at all. I think it's quite clear that in this way, in fact, an ad verbum should not be accepted immediately without negotiation. Because this is accepted, this isn't negotiated. If anyone who knows about the legal system of the European Union and the legal system of the Republic of Croatia had been negotiated, it would have been clear to him that it is completely inadmissible for a member like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72316	Thank you. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72317	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Prime Minister. I have just come to the attention of this security clearance problem contained in this proposal for a contract between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on security procedures for the exchange of classified information. Otherwise, such provisions, Mr Arlovic, are also in Croatia's proper contract with the NATO alliance, and I think we should also benefit from the experience of NATO member states, such as. Slovakia. Mr. Cain and I were within the NATO alliance two weeks ago, we were both in Slovakia and we were just discussing these issues and other members, so the current members of the NATO alliance that was the biggest problem from this very point of view because these checks can be subjected to people like us here representatives who are directly elected. And all the countries that, meaning both Slovakia and all other countries that are now members of the NATO Alliance, which also have this signed treaty with the European Union, have been far better in the negotiations and have made this clause and have precisely named which country. Of the 300, 400 or 500 officials, given the list of their officials who are not subject to those provisions because of the fact that he is such as a representative, as Prime Minister, the President of Parliament, the President of the State cannot come into such a situation as to be subject to the lower level of verification by the referents, that is, his duty to be such as the President of the State, the President of the Parliament, the President of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, means that he must have all this information, and normally that he must protect all data. Therefore, I agree with this part of what Mr. Arlovic says. I suggest that this still goes to first reading because this will only be a problem when it begins to be implemented both for the NATO Alliance and for the European Union. Because there are if we agree to something, normally they will demand that it be respected until the end and therefore I also suggest that the first reading be carried out because this problem will only escalate at Croatia's level. You, as President of the Parliament, won't be able to do anything until it's done. Neither can Mr. Jarnjak, nor will the president of the state, nor will any of us who are members of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Croatian delegation to the NATO Alliance and everything else. Therefore, there is a need to be really careful when negotiating in certain things because we have experience in other countries that have also signed that part, but in an appropriate way they have put a clause and protection of their electoral right, their internal right, and I don't think we could go beyond that simply because we're just going to get to the big level problem. Normally, all these things are still contained in the state, but I need to draw attention to the fact that we're late with two essential laws. We are late with the Information Security Act and we are late with the Security Act, these are the two laws that are important, which have been put into the procedure and have been withdrawn, which are also referred to by this international treaty and that agreement with the NATO Alliance, because we have just been having problems with this part of the definition of degree, the kind of secrecy, because these are all these countries that have now entered the NATO alliance before us, which are within the European Union, they are now in this part of the exchange and supply of information, and these are the problems. Because they have quite different criteria and criteria for determining that part, rather than according to these standards of NATO alliances or standards of the European Union. So, I propose that the first reading be done in order not to put ourselves in a situation that we have to, then we would have to go through the constitutional law to deal with this problem legally, because we know that international contracts are above the law, and therefore we can't deal with it by law, and that's the part that needs to be looked after in all the negotiations, using the experiences of the countries that have passed this. We're sorry we're working here a little bit. And we have experience, we have our embassies, our diplomatic service has experience, I've been told that these things and the NATO alliance our delegation, that it warned, that it was distracting but clearly that in this one chain of negotiation, it comes to the wrong merger, and then it's not negotiated, it's neither objecting, but it's accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72318	Thank you. Replica, Honored Vice President Mato Arlovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72319	I am actually using the Replica Institute to support my fellow Kovacevic's proposal precisely in this direction that, in between, if we choose this to be the first reading, between the first and the second reading, we actually bring some or interlock if you want to even formal, and it doesn't have to be formal, but out of discussion, it comes out in itself, to task our representatives of diplomacy and the executive authorities to further ensure that the institutionalisation of the clause that will actually enable the application and advantage, the primate of the internal legal order in this segment, in relation to the European Union, is number one. And number two, I fully agree with the finding, if we don't, if we sign this act, the European Union and NATO will insist on its consistent application. And given these 15 years of our recent history and experience, you can know what can happen in some segments of defense-security relations. Therefore, it would be very important to accept the suggestion to go to first reading and consider the possibility of providing a special clause for the primacy of domestic law until the second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72320	Replica response, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72321	Your Honor, Mr. President. I agree with this part of being complemented by my esteemed colleague Arlović, but I say we have concrete examples of Slovakia, Slovenia, other countries that have passed this course and procedure and that have regulated it in this way that I have talked about, which we must do now in this way that I have proposed, and Mr Arlović, because then we will really have to go through with the constitutional law. Why complicate our situation when there's no need? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72322	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Walter Poirot.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72323	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, if I understand correctly, Mr. Kovacevic said we should be careful not to question security because of how I understood the security checks. And then he mentioned other members, new NATO members such as Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Poland, etc. Well, maybe I don't understand why we can question this.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72324	Replica response, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72325	Here's Mr. Cain and I have talked a lot with NATO representatives, the US mission, with representatives of Slovakia and their security services, and that's the problem that one who hasn't passed the check, so the services will be checked by the President of the Parliament and the President of the State and the Prime Minister and all MPs and presidents of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. If they don't pass that check, only then, and it gets the green light, then it can have that information. So this problem had all the states, but they solved it in this way that I was talking about, because it's obvious that some of the things that other countries, which are friendly to us, we don't use their experiences about all this. This is also the situation regarding NATO accession, all other countries have an appropriate committee that monitors and directs both from the state's point of view and from the point of view of all these issues open, we do not have, it is left to the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Let's say Damir and I found out when we were there that in the project "Map" Croatia gave in the second degree, gave an annual part of what they would do for the next year. And nobody in Croatia knows that. That's the part, and why we're weak in information and all that stuff. Therefore, we have the opportunity to use the experiences of other countries, the friendly ones they are willing to give, which they are constantly giving and applying in this process and the European Union and receiving into NATO alliances and all others, because what is done is not good and therefore there are these various situations and resistances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72326	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final draft law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on security procedures for the exchange of classified information. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 68 for, 14 abstentions, 2 against, with the majority proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72329	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Just for a little while. Croatia has so far signed agreements on such cooperation in the fight against crime with 29 countries and practice has shown that co-operation with these countries with which we have signed bilateral agreements on cooperation in the fight against crime is much better, more effective and quality. Thus, the ratification of this Treaty on Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Kingdom of Sweden, or on the cooperation of the Ministry of Interior in the fight against crime, will lead to better and more effective cooperation, and thus to more effective cooperation in the resolution of criminal offences that take place in the area of these two countries of the signatories of this Treaty. Cooperation between the Ministry of Internal Affairs or the police of the Republic of Croatia and the Kingdom of Sweden will take place through a number of forms, through exchange of information, through exchange of experience in the use of criminal techniques, then exchange of information in the field of protection of criminal law enforcement, through the provision of technical and scientific assistance, skills and transfer of specialised technical groups, exchange of experiences of experts and advice, mutual cooperation in the protection and assistance of witnesses if life, health or property of him or his close persons are at risk and through various other forms of cooperation that prove necessary in the fight, in the joint fight between these two countries against the most serious forms of crime. And as I said, the current practice of cooperation with the countries with which we have signed these contracts is extremely good, so I am sure that the entry into force of this contract will certainly contribute to a better and more effective fight against crime in cooperation between the police of the Republic of Croatia and the Kingdom of Sweden. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72330	Thank you. The committees? Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, President of the Committee, Honored Representative Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72331	Your Honor, Mr. President. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security at the 77nd session held on 22 September, 22 September made a decision after the debate, a unanimous decision to support the proposed... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72332	Thank you. I don't have any other reports. I'm closing the debate. Final draft law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on cooperation in the fight against crime. I am voting on the final draft of the law. We can vote. The result? With 83 for, 1 abstention, a proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72335	... Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In front of you is the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on Amendments and Supplements of the Framework Agreement on Credit between the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, i.e. the HBOR and the Council of Europe Development Bank for the financing of the Small and Medium Entrepreneurship Credit Programme. Therefore, the HBOR signed with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Council of Europe's Development Bank on a common credit line for financing a very important, therefore, segment of the economy of small and medium-sized enterprises. The 20m-euro SME lending programme is 12m euros, the share of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development is 12m euros, and the share of the Council of Europe's development bank is 8m euros. Co-operation with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in this business was completed in 2004 in a way that, due to certain unfavourable conditions, the HBOR cancelled the further withdrawal of EBRD funds and, of course, the return of funds with corresponding costs. In this regard, the HBOR and the Croatian Government, therefore, set out to negotiate with the Council of Europe Development Bank, and according to the existing loan agreement with the Council of Europe Development Bank, there remains for the use of 4.3m euros, of which 4m euros relate to 2 other wars that have not been withdrawn and 366 000 euros is the remaining amount of the war withdrawn to a special account before the end of the job with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. In order to continue cooperation with the Council of Europe’s Development Bank on the credit line in question, the Council of Europe’s Development Bank has requested consideration of the possibilities and changes to existing conditions. Therefore, to ensure the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, i.e. Croatian entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized enterprises more favourable conditions for withdrawal of these funds. Therefore, in June 2005, the Administrative Council of the Council of Europe's Development Bank decided to continue cooperation with the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development on the existing credit line, to accept new more favourable conditions for the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. More favourable terms mean that maturity deadlines have been extended, repayment deadlines at 8, so six years of payoffs and two years of payoffs, to 10 years. So 8 years of payout and 2 years of waiting. The increase in the percentage of funding by the Development Bank of Europe from 40% to 50% of the amount of credit, the reduction in the number of reports to be submitted to the Council of Europe Development Bank by entrepreneurs, i.e. HBOR. In this respect, this proposal is more favourable for HBOR and for small and medium-sized enterprises. In view of the above, the Government therefore decided at its meeting on 10 March 2006 to initiate the procedure for the conclusion of the Agreement on Amendments and Supplements to the Credit Treaty between the Republic of Croatia, the HBOR and the Council of Europe Development Bank, therefore, for the financing of the Small and Medium Entrepreneurship Credit Programme. Therefore, here is a proposal for an amendment to this Act, a confirmation of the amendments and additions of the Framework Agreement on Loans and, therefore, we propose to the Parliament to bring this into an emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72336	Thank you. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget? Legislative? I'm opening a debate. There's no one reported. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal for a law confirming the Treaty on Amendments and Supplements to the Framework Agreement on Credit between the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Council of Europe's Development Bank for the financing of the Small and Medium Entrepreneurship Credit Programme. I am voting on the final draft of the law. We can vote. The result? With 83 votes for, 1 abstention, passed the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72339	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Allow me to refer in the shortest lines to the differences between this amendment and the addition of the law in the first reading and the one before you as the Final Proposal. So, the first reading passed July 5th of this year. It was accompanied by a number of remarks and suggestions, some of which were respected, and the final proposal of the Law differs from the first reading in the following. Articles 1 and 2 have been deleted. Proposal to amend the law from the first reading. The removal of Article 1 of the amendment of the Law has been achieved by exempting it, as the proposal initially provided for the exemption from the obligation of medium professional provision in the interest of the driver in carrying out the transport for its own purposes and has been deleted because the analysis of the data on the total number of vehicles registered in the Republic of Croatia which carries out public road transport found that of the 157 thousand 390 cargo vehicles, licences were issued for 14 thousand 214 cargo vehicles and also of 4000 989 registered buses, that licences were issued for 2 thousand 547 buses, from which the data resulted in less than 10% of freight vehicles and buses registered in the Republic of Croatia for public transport. So, we have deleted a provision that would free 90% of drivers from the obligation to own medium-sized equipment and to recapitulate still remains the obligation for all drivers to have adequate or medium-sized professional equipment in the driver's profession, if the permitted mass of the vehicle operated exceeds 3 thousand 500 kilograms. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The draft law which also in these final amendments has been deleted. It intended that the driver of a freighter’s motor vehicle had the maximum permissible mass of between 3000 and 7000 kilograms must have completed 18, and the driver of a freight vehicle whose maximum permissible mass exceeds 7 thousand 500 kilograms must be 19 years old. Therefore, this provision is deleted and remains, so the reasons for eradicating are on the fact that the management of vehicles, both freight and buses, except for the necessary driving licences are necessarily defined both by the working and life experience of the person who manages those vehicles. The proposal is that the current provision of Article 5 of the Act restricting the life of a motor vehicle driver, whose maximum permissible mass exceeds 3 thousand 500 kilograms per 21 years, is necessary and remains necessary to prevent young, under-experienced drivers whose maximum mass exceeds 3 thousand 500 kilograms after completing schooling. In this context, it is not about the provision of a law which would limit persons with a high level of professional training in the driver’s profession from having a working relationship at 18 years of age, but rather about 3 thousand 500 kg of road transport for drivers younger than 21 years of age from the proposed provision. This Final Proposal proposes to regulate the issue of coordination and business of legal and natural persons performing a transport activity in such a way as to extend the time limit for harmonisation for legal and natural persons carrying out the transport activity until 31 December 2006 and with the provision of Article 6(1) and (2). The road transport law, therefore with a special condition for vehicles according to which the public road transport activity of passengers and freight may be carried out by vehicles under 18 or less than 10 years of age for the transport of pupils, extends until 1 January 2012. Therefore, the provision previously integrated into the law remains in the first reading, remains in the second reading, so until 1 January 2012, it should be adapted to the provisions of Articles 6(1) and 2(2) of the Law. In addition, the final draft of the law proposes to increase the minimum amount of fines from a thousand to 7 thousand kuna for infringements of the exercise of linear transport without authorisation, to carry out transport from the Republic of Croatia to third countries and vice versa, and to cabotage ensuring adequate punishment for those infringements and since it is the most serious offences for the responsible person, the legal person and the driver himself of a foreign vehicle, which is in practice one of the most frequently imposed penalties. This proposal represents a harmonisation of practices in the countries surrounding the European Union because, according to data that we have a similar level of penalties in neighbouring countries, there is, of course, the possibility of confiscation of a vehicle that has been committed. Here's what would be the brief difference and purpose of passing this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72340	Thank you. Legislative, maritime, transport and communications committees. I'm opening a debate. Club of HDZ Representatives, Honored Representative Zivko Nenadić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72341	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This legislative amendment, by the way, is a law that has been discussed and well shaken as a rare number of times. I think that this legislative change in the second reading is how far I've managed to track through the board and through the parliamentary debate actually agree, we almost have a consensus about that main point, and that's about the age of the vehicle and the major changes. Maybe around some other things and we don't have any but they're less important. I know, there have been objections that this should have been put into the bill immediately, not waiting for changes, but we also think that the provision that had previously been for harmonisation has achieved its particular effect, that it has a little incentive for carriers to think as soon as possible, in order to restore their fleet and a little bit adaptable to the liberalisation of the market that is coming next year, two, three, four, already as long as it is. Of course, and because of the intervention of the craft chamber and of the autocars themselves, we have seen that a large number of vehicles are older and that no other people carry this change without a job, the proposed change is very acceptable and therefore the HDZ club supports it. Of course, this issue is also being resolved that not only must experienced drivers be educated but also, in due course, I think that we can be calm with this change, and I believe that both the Government and others who are, will encourage our carriers to rebuild their fleet, so that they can be competitive on the market. So we support this amendment and as soon as possible to vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72342	Thank you. For PGS, SBH, MDS, the respected representative of Željko Pavlic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72343	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Here's to letting me do the same on behalf of our PGS club, SBH, MDS, refer to the adoption of this law. In short, we support this law but with certain warnings. We support this law, therefore, primarily because of the argument and support this law has from the Croatian Chamber of crafts that speak of problems or possible problems of small carriers, which would therefore be in difficulty in 2007, i.e. For all those who don't have enough resources, they wouldn't be able to rebuild their fleet. It is therefore known that such small carriers are located in the Republic of Croatia somewhere over 12 thousand, they speak 12.5 thousand of which, therefore, 7 thousand 700 are registered for freight transport. They therefore warn that one significant part of the carrier, unless an appropriate time limit for the replacement of the vehicle is allowed, would be left without the basic means of operation or the possibility of carrying out the activities for which they are registered. In view of the situation in the Republic of Croatia, therefore, we think that a large number of unemployed people would have to do what is therefore done by this law in order to adapt this deadline to these new standards. rebuilding the fleet and extend. But we also warn that this law must not affect the safety of traffic on our roads. What does that mean? Well, the data tells us that our roads are moving old and from day to day older vehicles. In Croatia, there are about 140 thousand cargo vehicles and 31 thousand trailers. Of these cargo vehicles, their average age is 12.30, just over 12 years. That's the 2004 data, but they can help us compare it. Of these 140 thousand years, only 1.67 vehicles were manufactured in 2004 and 17, almost 18% were produced in 1984, so they are 20 years old and now in 2006 they have more than twenty years. What is also even more concerned is the age of our bus park, whose average age is 14 and a half years and that out of 4 thousand and 879 buses the year of production in 2004, so those who were at that time the latest is only 1.45% and those older than twenty years are 25%. Therefore, we must be very careful that those older vehicles that are moving on our roads are quite correct and therefore should be together with the MUP, together with the ministry that has brought them, there are certain special conditions and special regulations that must be met as strictly as possible. It must not happen to us, therefore, that almost every month in the newspaper we have these titles, for example, this title since 31 March 2006 "Children executed by an invalid school bus". We don't think that's supposed to happen to us. And we don't have to go any further into the past, so we can remember this car crash in the St. Rock tunnel when the truck truck picked up several vehicles in that tunnel where it seemed to me three dead and even today it doesn't know whether that truck was right or wrong. So that's what's important, which we'd like to emphasize. Therefore, we support this law but with warnings that all those vehicles which have received this additional extension must be technically correct and that they must be more often or should be more frequently examined for their technical correctness. And in order to help these private carriers during this transport period, the Government should therefore, together with some other institutions, think that these carriers are also helped, given some subsidies, incentives or at least more favourable loans because we also know the price of such a vehicle or such a new bus. What I would still like to take this opportunity to pass on one request from the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. Last week, therefore, one session of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce of the County Chamber of Chakovec was held in Čakovec, where our carriers warned of several things. Here, since the secretary of state is also a Međimuran, so I hope that there will be a little more hearing for our carriers. So they suggested warning the problem of a cent permit i.e. The permit for unlimited number of transports to other countries to introduce more order because they express dissatisfaction here are the carriers from our Međimurje County who fail to pass these permits even though they have on average the most modern rolling stock in Croatia. They suggest introducing some new criteria, among other things, for the criteria to be achieved. So the one who has a bigger problem means that he does his job better, and normally he should be given more permits. Here, let me finish. So our club will support this law but with warnings, so those vehicles that get another bonus must be technically correct. I especially insist that it be especially careful about the bus and the school buses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72344	Thank you. The IDS Club is a respected representative of Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72345	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives! Well, in principle, as Mr Pavlic and the IDS Club spoke, they clearly support this law. I don't think the law is as controversial as it is, although I think the right vehicle is the right vehicle, so there were ten, twelve, sixteen, eighteen or twenty-eight years of age, it's simply that this means of transport be right. What exactly does this law do? The law proposes to postpone the application of this provision to Article 6. The road transport law therefore special conditions for vehicles according to which the public road transport activity of passengers and freight may be carried out by vehicles, trucks, buses under the age of 18 or by buses under the age of 10 for the transport of pupils and thus the time limit for coordination for all natural and legal persons carrying out the transport activity by 1 January 2012. If it were simply different we would ruin a whole series of carriers although it is clear that it should be imagined over the fact that our fleet is extremely old, as Mr. Pavlic said trucks are on average 12.8 years old, probably today and something more, buses somewhere 14.5 years old and vehicles that are more than 20 years old are on our roads somewhere around 25% of that category, means trucks or buses. In the meantime, a Regulation on the conditions to be met by vehicles carried by children has also been adopted. It is clear from the agreement of the Minister responsible for Education which regulates the conditions to be met by vehicles to which children are transported and the conditions of technical correctness and equipment of the vehicle are strengthened. And there are almost entirely these provisions in line with those European standards that absolutely need to be supported, because all those whose children go to school should not be afraid of what can happen to them because of the failure of the vehicle. Article 8 The laws of carriers, i.e. legal or natural persons carrying out auto-tax transport, shall not, as other carriers, fulfil those conditions referred to in points (1) and (5) of this Article 8, or shall not meet the conditions relating to the financial capacity and ownership, i.e. the lease of their own, or the contract of purchased parking lots when issuing a licence. The proposed terms and conditions for carrying out auto-tax activities are harmonised in the event where the same activity is carried out on the basis of the concession, i.e. the licence, and we believe that in such a way it is coming to the meeting of car taxi drivers and this should be clearly supported. The only real objection to this bill would be to this dramatic increase in fines with a thousand, say, seven thousand kunas, etc. And I think there should be a little more hearing for the material opportunities these people live in, or work on. So I don't want to talk about permits to work abroad, about cents, etc., I want to express to this occasion a protest which is still in effect this 0.0 bill has passed. This Law has ruined domestic wine producers, along with the uncontrollable imports of grapes and Macedonia, as well as the rudely expensive wine offered in the incinerators in our inn which is more returned which encourages the guest to buy that bottle. What I'm trying to say is that this 0.0 didn't fulfill the purpose...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72346	Leave it for another topic, this is the law, leave it for...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72347	...there we'll agree that it's a harmful law, that there are no fewer deaths...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72348	Leave this for me, Comrade Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72349	...and that it should be lifted today, not waiting for tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72350	My colleague Cain, we're not, it's not a subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72351	I know it's not a topic, but since it's a transport...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72352	Then when it's not a theme then...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72353	...in road traffic, all these penalties...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72354	...don't do it without a theme.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72355	... which are charged by our drivers and unjustly so full of the state budget offends common sense and I ask you to take...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72356	Yes, to be taken to stick to the subject. Thank you very much. Comrade Cain, please be kind and stick to the subject. Don't let yourself admit that you're stepping away from the subject for that, so don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72357	We stand down, but as you do, Mr. President, you stand down from the Rules of Procedure and will not put our proposals...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72358	I'm not giving anything away from the Rules of Procedure. You know what procedure...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72359	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72360	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72361	We will uphold this law and once again...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72362	That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72363	... we're expressing a protest against an unnatural standard that needs to be lifted as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72364	Ceterum censeo. Final review, State Secretary held by Breglec. Here you go. Wait a minute, we have a quick report. Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72365	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honored Proposers, Representatives of the Government. I would like very briefly to warn something about the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Transport Act. By the way, this law has been regulated by regulations for nearly three years. Government regulations. At the same time, the law now proposes a vague amendment and addition by my court. For example, Article 6 contains two items that amend the current article, i.e. Article 103 of the Law. And in paragraph 2, it says that on the day of entry into force of the Road Transport Act, "National Journal", 36/98, 83/98, 26/2003, people found in jobs, concepts, the legal term "found in jobs" did not define what the legislator means. Does this mean persons in a working relationship who carry out road transport operations? Does this mean people working on that day or does that mean people who met the conditions that they had until then for road traffic? It's so stretching that it leaves it at will, and that's not allowed. That's not allowed. If 3 years of regulations could extend the deadline and edit the area of road traffic then it was really necessary here to define exactly that the Law has been working pro futuro, that the legions of pherenda, from the time this Law enters into force, from the moment this Law enters into force. Why should we now edit? It's retroactive, de facto, yes, what legal certainty it is that conditions of engagement, transport operations are worth until 2003. Since then, we have a vacuum, when we're passing a new law, and now there's a new legal... I think that the proposer should take this situation seriously and give the citizens and their security priority, i.e. the meaning and establish that this Law produces effects only from the date on which it enters into force. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72366	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Drazen Breglec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72367	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I owe some of the answers that were in this debate, to which questions were asked. First of all, I would like to say that about a million and 700 thousand technical checks are carried out annually in the Republic of Croatia, so in the annual regular yearly, or we know that some vehicles do not have to pass regularly annually, but for new vehicles, a different cycle is also valid. These million 700 thousand technical inspections are carried out by 138 cells for technical examination and all technical inspection stations are monitored regularly by the Ministry of the Interior and there is a mechanism for sufficient control and quality of the examination, and the measures they foresee and only ultimately as the most difficult measure to close the station for the technical examination unless it carries out quality of its work. I am saying this because attention has been drawn to the necessary increase or attention to the technical examination system as a basic instrument of technical correctness control and technical correctness control itself, in fact, it has been warned and accepted absolutely, must be the only criterion for road traffic in the long term. About the CEM license that was mentioned here in the debate as a topic let me report to this High House that based on the increased basic CEMTA quota from Paris as an organisation for 2007 and also on the new way of dividing CEMTA for Croatia will be about 25% more CEM licenses in 2007 than it was in this year. More specifically, since 673 that number will increase to 806 CEM permits. This will make it possible to expand, of course, to a greater number for those figures, to a greater number of our transport units, to participate in the common European market, or to access that market. Let me also point out that these days, the CEM permit allocation Regulation, which will be published these days, which has been coordinated with professional associations, with chambers and which ensures participation and carriers themselves, through chambers of economic and craftsmen in the work of the commission, and that, in that case, of course, the chambers from all regions, as well as from Međimurje, can give an initiative to the central authority and their representative may also make such observations in accordance with them and act accordingly. This latest remark by the distinguished representative about the formulation of the person found in the business can only say that such formulations have been in the old law so far, that in this reading process which has passed all the necessary procedures and the committees have not been explicitly or has not been alerted to such a formulation, and we have therefore considered that the statement is clear enough and that we will be able to apply it, so the persons found in the business will either know or mean that those persons who were on the day of entry into force of the 98 law have been found on these jobs and they will not have to make new qualifications. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72368	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 78 votes for, five abstentions, one against, a proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72371	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! There are three reasons why the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to amend and supplement the Criminal Procedure Act by an urgent procedure in one reading. All three amendments relate to the simplification of the procedure, thus contributing to its acceleration and thus the ultimate objective of the effectiveness of the criminal proceedings. One of the changes relates to the introduction of modern methods of communication and to criminal proceedings. In fact, we are witnessing that modern communication technology is being penetrated into the aspect of life, business, and this cannot be defended nor needed, therefore these methods are also being introduced into judicial proceedings, therefore also in criminal proceedings. Therefore, this amendment, proposed by amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act, refers in fact to enabling the implementation of evidence through an audio video conference or telephone conference. The use of these modern technologies has already been introduced into our legal system and has been made possible by the Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters. However, in order to specify in more detail the conditions and procedures, the manner and value of evidence collected through this road, so legal aid provided through an audio video conference or telephone connection was necessary to do so by this law and therefore proposed to introduce a new Chapter XIV. Which regulates the issue of this legal aid. I must say and point out that the evidence collected, say witness testimony or party collected through this method of communication, can only be used with the consent of the hearing party and party. Otherwise, this change is in line with the European Commission's recommendations that internal law is proposed to speed up the procedure in particular for complex cases of serious crime, perpetrators and witnesses can listen through this method and that is something that has already been introduced by a number of countries into their legal systems. The second amendment relates to the extension of the catalogue of criminal offences in which it is possible to carry out special... Article 181(2) of this Act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Namely, at this point in time, under the current provision of this catalogue, there are no corruption crimes which are as such defined by international legal conventions and which the Republic of Croatia, meanwhile, has ratified. This is mainly the case at the Criminal and Legal Convention, the United Nations Convention against Corruption and the Convention on Cybercrime, so that this proposal proposes to extend this catalogue of bodies and to allow specific measures prescribed by law to be applied to the criminal offence of bribery in economic business and bribery in economic business and bribery in economic business, that is otherwise broken down as a special criminal offence by amendments to the 2004 Penal Code, completeness and availability of computer data, programme or system, and children's pornography on the computer system or network. And finally the third change proposed by this law concerns the determination of detention at the stage of the investigation. In fact, the change now refers specifically to who during the investigation phase, during the investigation may decide to extend detention. The proposal is which in practice proved to be necessary and useful that when detention is established and the deadline is proposed and is proposed, i.e. it is necessary to specify its extension to do so by an investigative judge himself, on official duty or on a proposal by a state lawyer, and not as prescribed by the Judicial Council so far. Namely, it is a judge who can assess whether there is a reason for detention, and the current solution to which it is the jurisdiction of the judicial council is not contributing to the effectiveness of the proceedings. These cases are urgent, the case is moved from the county court, if it is a complaint, to the Supreme Court itself and to the sending of that case from one instance to the other comes up, there is a waste of time and therefore the dangers are deadlines, therefore it is proposed for efficiency and efficiency to entrust it to an investigative judge in these situations. Here, ladies and gentlemen, this is in short and important what is proposed by these amendments and the additions of the Criminal Procedure Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72372	Thank you. The committees? Law, European integration, justice? Committee Chairman Emil Tomljanović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72373	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the 46th session held on 26 September 2006, the Court of Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Criminal Procedure with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 13 July 2006. The Committee discussed the law in question on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that the proposed amendments regulate three important issues, hence the length of detention in the stage of the investigation, the use of modern forms of communication in the implementation of legal aid, and complementing the catalogue of criminal offences for which special reconnaissance actions can be carried out. In the debate, most members supported the proposed measures, proposed amendments and additions as they would contribute to the effectiveness of the criminal proceedings. On the final draft of the law, the members of the Committee made the following comments, proposals and opinions. The opinion is that the proposed solution referred to in Article 1 of the final proposal, which would allow complaints to be resolved by the Council of the County Court instead of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, will not in itself contribute to an increase in the effectiveness of the proceedings as stated in the reasoning of the proposal, but must insist on respecting, naturally, the legal deadlines contained in the proposal itself. The importance and support of the introduction of legal aid through the audio-video conference and through a telephone conference and is proposed to complement the catalogue of criminal offences for which special measures can be carried out by the criminal act of computer fraud, Article 224a of the Criminal Code and the criminal offence of illegal mediation, Article 343. The Penal Code while with some other proposals for the extension of criminal catalogues, it can wait until the next announced changes to the CAP are announced. After the debate was held, with 8 votes for and 2 abstentions, the Committee of Justice decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Code on Criminal Procedure with the next amendment, with the amendment being proposed unanimously. Therefore, Article 5 of Article 171 behind the words "223a of the Penal Code" adds the words "computer fraud" and the words "338". The Penal Code is added to the words: "illegal mediation Article 343. The Penal Code." Therefore, this amendment should be adopted in order to comply with the Convention on Cybercrime adopted by the Croatian Parliament at its meeting on 3 July 2002, as well as with recommendations... , therefore special investigative measures in relation to all serious corruption and all criminal acts related to corruption. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72374	Thank you. President of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and Political System, Drazen Bosnjakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72375	Thank you very much, Mr. President. State secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament at the 64th session held on 26 September 2006 discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure with the Final Proposal of the Law. The Committee discussed the draft law on the basis of the competences set out in Article 57. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as an interested working body. In the debate, the Committee supported the proposal for a proposal to pass the law by an urgent procedure, as it harmonizes the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legal gains of the European Union and contributes to the acceleration and effectiveness of the criminal proceedings. After the debate, the committee proposed, by a majority of votes, 5 votes for and 2 abstentions, to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72376	Thank you. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities? I'm opening a debate. For the club of representatives of HNS, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72377	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club is somewhat disappointed with the fact that it is going back to fire and that there are some procedures in changing the laws that may be necessary because they are dictated by the current circumstances, however, such changes from moment to moment and from need to need, in fact stressing legal uncertainty in the state and saying that we are not quite sure, that the government is not quite sure what is ahead of it and what everything on this plan or on some other plans should actually be done. It reacts when the situation requires it, changes are made that are directly needed at the moment, but no further consideration is given to the future, and I think this proposal is a good illustration of that situation. It's three aspects of changing this, in fact, the most important law in criminal law, in addition to the fundamental law, because it's talking about how things are going, it's one regulation of investigative detention. As things are now being investigated in the beginning, the investigating judge determines the extension of the case by the Council, up to 6 months, and the appeal may be, the Supreme Court decides on the appeal. This proposal gives jurisdiction to an investigative judge that, without anyone, he himself, by his own intention, deploys detention, or determines detention under the laws of the circumstances laid down within these first 6 months, which we do not consider to be in favour of the preservation of the imminent and necessary preservation of the fundamental human rights of the people under investigation. As far as the Supreme Court's appeal is concerned, it's clear that it slows down a bit, that's a fact. It is simpler, the appeal procedure is now going towards this proposal to the county court. It is simple to address the county court which is most likely in the same building or somewhere nearby and people are familiar and will communicate more easily, from morning to afternoon agree what they will do with the appeal. However, there are two dangers. There's one manipulation of custody. No matter what we actually swear on the fact that the judiciary is completely independent and that we are distanced from the judiciary and the judiciary is doing our job, we can't get too involved here, we know from practice that it's not always the case. There is a great possibility of a deal to be made in time, to carry out the procedure as it is imagined. Agreements between the county and municipal court in a situation where that or the investigating judge in a situation where it should not be. The Supreme Court is further, by definition the Supreme Court is independent, more independent than anyone else in the judicial authority of the Republic of Croatia and we are convinced that this staircase, the appeal stairway to the Supreme Court is well placed now. Another argument why it should be one body in the whole country. Namely, it's also a alignment of practice. There are clear reasons why detention can be imposed in the investigation procedure, impact on witnesses, possible recurrence of criminal acts, and so on. However, the interpretation of this by the current judgments of the Supreme Court of Appeals shows that the interpretation of it has led to ferocity and even according to the Supreme Court to the abuse of certain provisions of this procedural law. At the time when a single body decides on this, the Supreme Court shall at the very least ensure the equality of all participants and uniformed practices in such proceedings. It seems to us at the Croatian People's Party Club that this is a step away from those principles and desires that we have talked many times about reforming the judiciary spoken, unifying the case law, that here it is deviating from that principle. The second part of the amendments to the law concerns the use of audio-video links and other types of technical assistance in the conduct of the procedure. Of course, it is dictated by the current needs and desires that Croatia fully assumes all war crimes trials, in such trials it will certainly be necessary and necessary to use and procedures to process large-scale crime where it is also, for example, impossible or difficult to reach a specific person except in this way, that part of the change is of course fully supported because it is current, it is modern and finally has it all systems in organised Europe. The third part concerns the extension of the list of parts for which specific measures are allowed to be carried out in the investigation procedure. It's about listening, watching, tracking, and these special measures, so we know what it's all about, right? Such enlargement is in principle always dangerous. Of course, we are now in action to implement the government's anti-corruption plan, and this is a hit topic that we talked about yesterday, which we are likely to discuss today, all these days, and measures like this precisely in these criminal acts, of course, that facilitates the investigation process and probably needs to be introduced. It's a list of crimes that can't actually be brought to the finalisation without that kind of procedure. But let's face it, all of us. Police and state lawyers and courts will never materially end corruption and heavy corruption from political corruption to economic corruption unless political authority is included in the process with good faith and tax authorities are involved in the process before and above all. Tax authorities who need to determine who's what he's earned and who's got what. And if someone has significantly more than what they've earned, further evidence that crime is actually not necessary, this is about some kind of crime anyway. So, okay with this. We need to track criminals, we need to record them secretly, we need to do all that. But if we're not ready to take one thorough tax reform, where the tax administration will necessarily do everything that is in the law today says it can work out of all this won't be a lot of vaj. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72378	Thank you. For the HDZ club, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72379	Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Introductoryly, I would like to point out that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community proposed a bill on amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act of course supports. The legislative proposal itself contains three major amendments, and the first amendment concerns the length of detention. It's about determining the length of detention at the stage of the investigation. It is indeed a very sensitive legal institute that should always be seen in the context of measures to ensure the presence of the defendants and the implementation of other precautionary measures in the sense of the conduct of the criminal proceedings. By virtue of the rules of law, the Court must always ensure that a more severe measure is not applied when it is decided on measures to ensure the presence of the defendants and other precautionary measures on the one hand, if the same purpose can be achieved by a milder penalty, and on the other hand, the court will, on the other hand, suspend the measures to ensure the presence of the defendants if the legal conditions for their application have ceased or the conditions for the same purpose can be achieved by a minor measure. The detention shall be determined by written decision of the competent judicial authority, and the detention determined by a decision of the investigating judge or detention first established during the investigation by a Council decision may last for a maximum period of one month from the day of his detention of liberty. In accordance with Article 106(2), paragraph 2 is now where an amendment is to be made which should indeed constitute a qualitative shift in the management of detention cases. The proposed solution offers the possibility that an investigative judge himself or at the request of a state attorney may extend the detention period for the first time for a maximum of 2 months and, of course, twice for another 3 months. The proposed solution is not only that this extension of detention will not be decided in the first degree, so in the first degree, the two hearings of the county courts will be decided but the following will certainly be achieved: First, in the course of the detention in the investigation, the time of the decision by appeal would be shortened. Secondly, the dispensation of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia would also be achieved so that these cases would no longer be dealt with. And thirdly, the investigating judge would get not only a more significant role but the investigative process should be significantly more effective. And exactly in the exposed sense, the first part of the changes should be supported. Furthermore, the second part of the amendments and additions refers to the regulation of the audio video conference as a way of providing legal assistance in our criminal proceedings. Although the Republic of Croatia has signed the second additional protocol to the European Union, the European Convention on Mutual Judicial Assistance in Criminal Matters which regulates the possibility of using audio visual conferences in criminal proceedings has not been ratified. However, regulation of legal aid is proposed precisely in internal law. Therefore, before ratification of the protocol itself, any difficulty in carrying out evidence through audio visual conferences or telephone conferences would be eliminated. The change, or addition of criminal procedural law, in doubt enables the use of modern forms of communication in the implementation of legal aid, and ultimately contributes to the acceleration and effectiveness of the criminal procedure itself. In addition, the catalogue of criminal offences which can be determined by the implementation of specific reconnaissance measures is complemented, so that certain constitutional rights of citizens can be temporarily limited. Notwithstanding the surveillance and technical recording of telephone conversations, entry into the room for the conduct of technical recording, permanent monitoring and technical recording of persons and objects, the use of undercover investigators and trustees, the simulated purchase of items or the supervision of the transport of deliveries and cases of the special investigation measure will also be possible to determine for corrupt offences in this respect changes in therefore giving and receiving bribes in economic activity, but also on the proposal of the criminal offence of computer fraud and illegal mediation where, in this sense, the basic criterion of including these criminal acts in the catalogue in question is amended. So criminal acts with a corrupt element. Accordingly, given that it is extremely these 3.3, the 3 major changes that should ultimately result in an improvement in the effectiveness of the criminal proceedings itself, the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives is of course at the point of view that this law, in terms of its amendments and addition, should absolutely be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72380	Thank you. For the club of representatives of HSS respected representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72381	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues of the MPs, so here as from previous presentations it is in fact three changes and from the aspect of the Croatian Peasant Party Club against these changes of course we have nothing but the proposed changes themselves will not achieve the goal if this Government's goal is to combat crime and fight crime effectively. We have always stated on behalf of the Club that we have never opposed the amendments and additions of the law if they represent the removal of the observed shortcomings observed during court practice and during life-to-life practice at all. However, in this case it is only evident that fire measures are involved. On fire measures that may partially speed up the process, however, we are wondering why in such cases we do not want to approach the problem systematically. And when we discussed the Penal Code and when we discussed the Anti-Corruption Strategy and when we discussed other laws and when we finally discussed the report of the Polish defender then we saw that there were a number of reasons why the Republic of Croatia, here we could see yesterday in the report a failure to fight with, against crime and fail to fight against bribes and corruption. Of course, timely detection and sanctioning are primarily needed for successful crime control. And these changes and additions are focused on it, but I'm not optimistic about it, so I'd say we just solved all the problems. Often amendments and additions to the law, such fire measures also make the work of the courts themselves more difficult. It makes it difficult to create court practice and very often we can come across complaints from judges who themselves say that they no longer know what to do and how to do from the changes and the additions? That is why, although we support these changes, we point to the need for systematic treatment of this solution. Why don't we think about the need to just take those measures pointed out by the attorney general himself? As we discussed the report by the Ombudsman, we quoted here for these speakers what the occupier said. He said that our judgmental authority, or some judges in the judicial authority, is not independent but is closely linked to interesting lobbies. And he even went so far as to say "related to a criminal mile." Therefore, for the effective fight against crime above all, it is necessary to ensure the timely and effective detection of the perpetrator of the crime. I'm not sure that's what we've done. We are aware that you and we are also aware that very often it is avoided to report a criminal offence and the perpetrator of a criminal offence from mistrust with the judicial authority, from mistrust in the functioning of the rule of law and from the fact that it is also the police who determines that the perpetrator, after two days, that perpetrator, is being threatened by the police or the citizens who have reported the crime. We didn't do anything about it. I understand that an extension of detention is necessary at this point, but only the extension of detention will not solve the fundamental problem, it will not solve the issue of keeping the case long in drawers and thus waiting and waiting for the limitation deadlines. What we did to strengthen the responsibility of those who, I don't know, I won't say from which initiative, but just as I said, deep down in the drawer put the object and that object will hardly see the light of day. Without strict responsibility, it is not possible to expect effective judicial authority as a prerequisite for a successful fight against corruption. To us, it's an obligation to contain crime. We were glad to hear yesterday when the prime minister told us that we had improved 13 places on that scale, that our status had improved. However, last night, watching Croatian TV's "Dnevnik" we were very disappointed. Because what is the fundamental problem of functioning in the economy in the Republic of Croatia and every other form of life, we actually fell on a scale between 16 and 20 places. A particular problem of corruption and the failure of the rule of law. Therefore, the Croatian Peasants' Club will support this Amendment and Supplement proposal, with this indication that these are fire-fighting measures and that these fire-fighting measures will not achieve the goal if the truly sincere objective is to effectively combat crime. Without getting involved in solving the problem, just if you want to appoint judges and verify their expertise, so if you want to determine the criminal offences of the judges who commit those crimes during the case, it is illusory to expect that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will gain confidence in the functioning of the rule of law. That they too will feel obliged to reveal the perpetrators of criminal acts and perpetrators of criminal acts, and as long as they are not engaged in the repression of this evil everyone in one country. From ordinary citizens to all state bodies and institutions, as regulated by law. We will until then bring these fire measures and these kind of fire measures, and after a certain time we will have to admit the fact despite all this we have failed. And we failed because we didn't have the strength and courage to get into that measure, into that core, that basic reason why that is. And why I'm stressing it so much again, I'm not going to quote it again, but I'm stressing, well, let's read one more report from the public defender, because the attorney general was very precise, he made it very clear to us about the underlying problems and the reasons. And contrary to this precision and specificity of the public defender, unfortunately, the parliamentary majority did not have the strength to draw such conclusions as would be binding, asked the Government of the Republic of Croatia to systematically engage in the fight against it, and in that case we would not have only such fire-fighting measures, which unfortunately will not lead to the necessary goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72382	Thank you. For the SDP Club, a respected representative, vice president of the House, Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72383	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Let us, in the name of our club, make one remark that actually expresses a little bit of our dissatisfaction. We believe that it is not good for purely pragmatic reasons to amend and supplement basic laws of the Republic of Croatia such as criminal proceedings, such as the Criminal Procedure Act or any other law which thoroughly regulates a particular area of social life. Secondly, we also believe that under the suggestions we should not bring amendments and additions to the law but rather that this must be on the one hand and the need for legislative regulation and regulation of social relations and procedures such as in them by the interests of the Republic of Croatia and on the other hand for the efficiency of the rule of law and the rule of law in the Republic of Croatia. Third thing we have to say. If the amendment and addition of the law is already being made, then the European Union is also invited to comply with the European Union, then at least the text of the law which is in line with the European Union document should be assumed that the European Union document to which the Law is aligned has entered into force in the European Union. There can be no discussion that, for example, this Law is aligned with, among other things, the second Additional Protocol to the European Convention on mutual judicial assistance, while at the same time written in the very explanation that this document was adopted only by Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Switzerland and Slovakia. Therefore, it has not yet entered into force in the European Union. Therefore, it is obvious that this reason and for this formal reason, in fact, in harmonising this document with the European Union, does not stand and that the emergency procedure is not acceptable on this basis. Thirdly, you know, these issues are very serious regardless of what it seems to be about only 3 issues relating to the amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act and they, on the one hand, can contribute to the efficiency of the judiciary, but on the other hand, they may question the protection of the rights of, for example, the defendant. In this respect, too, account should be taken. Fourth. At the same time, the task force at the resolution ministry is working to amend and supplement the Penal Code comprehensively. Which should completely settle this issue. And even very serious conversations are being held that a whole new Code of Criminal Procedure may appear. It doesn't make any sense, somewhere 3 to 5% of these, to bring these substances now by emergency procedure and at the same time expect a whole new law. Now, what's the threshold? The pragma is actually to try to show, show, prove that Croatia has provided additional instruments in this respect to combating bribery and corruption on the one hand and on the other, in order to ensure that there is a real quality of treatment in criminal acts in cooperation with countries in the region, as it is ultimately written in this document, and is actually working on the one hand for crimes of war crimes and crimes against humanitarian law on the one hand and on the other hand for the trial of possible criminal acts against organised crime, then terrorism and possible trafficking in arms, drugs, etc. in the region. Now allow a few individual remarks. First, it is quite true that by amending and supplementing Article 106, which would practically ensure that the length of detention is decided by the investigating judge, that it is one standard that shortens the procedure, that in such a situation it is absolutely certain that the time needed to walk the file from the county court to the Supreme Court ceases to be relevant, etc., but allow if it is known in advance by the competent attorney, or the investigating judge initiating the proceedings, then it is not such a big problem, relating to the savings of that time. However, there is a serious problem, given that the investigating judge himself or on a proposal by the state's attorney will extend custody during the investigation, for the first time in two months at the most and then another three months. Therefore, if you have 30 days first, then 2 months, then 3 months, a total of 6 months, and in such a situation a very serious question arises whether it can come to an apparent, I will not talk about content, but the apparent streaks and interests of, for example, the prosecution of the court of inquiry contrary to the defendant. How and the defendant to protect his Constitution guaranteed the rights to act in dignity and in accordance with the Constitution and the law both against the defendant or any person in any proceedings with us. In such a situation, it should actually be quite serious, of course, there is a possibility and probably, and to such a solution, the investigating judge will be able to object or appeal. But then what we got if it was going to be on each of those complaints situations, so actually that procedure we wanted to shorten wasn't shortened. The costs we wanted to reduce, they weren't reduced, but they were increased. And in addition, it is open to further actually impose additional procedural actions and lawyers, defenders and, of course, the State's Attorney's Office. In such a situation, we should consider, in particular, and open another matter. It is necessary to consider which criminal acts which are particularly difficult and dangerous for the community of society should be given the right to an investigative judge that he can decide, of course, because of preventing the defendants from potentially affecting witnesses, to conceal documents, etc., not to speak now about all these reasons, that he may actually decide, of course, to leave his own appeal, the possibility of appeal to a prisoner. But, you know, for all the works, I'm afraid there's going to be a whole series of actions that are actually going to happen in our practice, knowing our practice actually leads to a little bit, if not sometimes comedian stuff. Of course, it's worth taking care of legal aid here as well. We fully support that part. We also support these audio-video conferences and technical aids that should be classified. After all, we see for ourselves that our court in Zagreb is already prepared for this part to do so, that the Osijek and Vukovar courts are ready, etc. It's a shame the others didn't, but there's one thing that's very important here. It is not enough to open the space for such funds to be used in the court proceedings and at the same time not to prescribe a minimum. I remind you that there is also a rule in Europe in most countries that they have detailed how such resources can be used in the process of proof at the time, and we prescribe that they can be used but we do not prescribe and how they can be used and how they are used in carrying out the evidence. I'm afraid that we're going to open up a big problem and we're actually going to need not only judicial practice but also the same as in detention issues, the already achieved and uniform court practice, we're actually going to put aside to get some efficiency that doesn't always have to be for the benefit of the protection of rights and legal actions. And another remark as very specific, for crimes for which special reconnaissances could be carried out. It is very interesting that, for example, it is provided for the bribery provided for in Article 348, it is also possible to perform a punitive criminal activity. But there isn't a possible special reconnaissance shop to receive such a bribe. Therefore, there is for economic myth, there is for both economic and income but here it writes the same for bribery Article 348, and in Article 348 there is also responsibility for receiving such bribes. Therefore, why no special reconnaissance is provided for that part, etc. I think it's probably a mistake. I think you should also give here for giving and receiving the bribes referred to in Article 349. KZ, etc. It is therefore quite interesting that the same abuses in the exercise of the government's duties are also made possible in special reconnaissance actions involving abuse in the exercise of the capacity of local and regional authorities. That's very important. What about public institutions? What about companies and other organisations that exercise public authority? In fact, it opens the entire fine not only from the aspect of the amendment and addition of the Penal Code, but also from the amendments to the Penal Code itself, but also from the amendment and the addition of the Penal Code itself, and in this respect we believe in the SDP's Club that it is a real shame that these three important amendments were not conducted in the first reading, not by an urgent procedure, on the one hand, and on the other hand that this same debate actually serves the working group to hear the Parliament's opinion if we do not make specific conclusions and decisions regarding such a debate that should be taken into account in the making of this whole reform. Why is this important? Because, among other things, if you look at the indication of the competent ministry, relating to the alignment with the European Union's gains, then you will see at the end under point 7, the participation of consultants in the draft draft regulation and their opinion... Nothing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Logically, there's nothing because it's actually too insignificant... for them, the change in relation to the total change on the one hand and on the other, very, very rapid, in fact, for pragmatic reasons does not work to bring the European Union in line. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Secondly, we have a proposal to make a consolidated text, so we have this, but there is no such thing as it is not actually written anywhere that this text is in conformity with and with what act. In addition to being mentioned as a special act, the supplementary protocol of the European Convention on mutual judicial assistance in criminal matters which has not entered into force in the European Union. Therefore, there remains actually something far more important, and what we do not have in the debate, in addition to this document, and these are international bilateral agreements of the Republic of Croatia in the region that we have actually relating to this international aid, among other things, in the resolution of conflicts, criminal offences in criminal proceedings that are important for resolving relations in the region, such as the international treaty that we have now signed with Serbia on providing legal assistance, on mutual legal assistance which should actually be important and as a basis for such solutions. Why? Because, among other things, what this protocol requires is that we have settled interstate contracts, and why should we be in this segment of the test rabbits if we can't work it out to the end? The issue should therefore be fully worked out. Once it has been worked out, then accept that regardless of whether the protocol has entered into or has not entered into force, we have practically solved it, but let us not appeal to a protocol that has not entered into force, and practically only globally, and not in detail to solve a particular issue, and for criminal proceedings, however, we must address in detail the issues of how to ensure full procedures and full possibility on the one hand of the defence, on the other hand, the prosecution and, of course, to protect the interests of the state authorities but also the rights and interests of the defendants involved in the proceedings. For this reason, we from the Club of Representatives of the SDP will support the need to adopt this amendment and supplement the Law, but we also draw attention to all these remarks with the hope that further amendments and additions of the law will probably come soon, which should be comprehensive. In fact, all these remarks will be taken into account and try to install them so that we definitely get one criminal law, a criminal procedure which, on the one hand, will be in line with the European Union documents which are in force with the ideas of future changes in the final line, regulatory in, the European Union in this segment, but above all, with the interests and needs of the Republic of Croatia in this area to be an effective rule of law, and on the other hand, to enable all participants to protect their rights and interests in accordance with the Constitution and the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72384	Thank you. The word has a respected representative of Rade Ivas.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72385	Honorable Vice President, respected secretary of state, colleagues and fellow MPs. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Criminal Procedure with the Final Proposal for the Law, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia referred to in this parliamentary procedure. These amendments and additions to the criminal proceedings are in fact in line with the provisions of the second, second, additional Protocol to the European Convention, on mutual judicial assistance in criminal proceedings, signed by the Republic of Croatia in 2004, thus harmonising the same law with the legal gains of the European Union and the legal acts of the Council of Europe. In fact, the proposed amendments regulate three important issues. First, custody in the investigation. Second, the introduction of a legal aid institute via audio, video conferences and telephone conferences. And third, the extension of catalogues of criminal acts for which investigations, special reconnaissances can be carried out. This Regulation shall enter The law on criminal proceedings regulates the length of detention at the stage of the investigation. Since this legal solution does not allow the proceedings in detention cases to be effective because in the detention phase in the investigation... A large part of the time spent actually on the road from the County Court to the Supreme Court and is doing much, a decision on many complaints on the decision to extend the detention of these proposed amendments would no longer be resolved by the Supreme Court on complaints of resolution of detention in the course of the investigation but would already have been taken by the investigating judge for the first 6 months, and the appeals against those solutions would be decided by the competent Council of the County Court as prescribed in Article 2(2). The law on criminal proceedings. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These amendments increase the efficiency of operations on detention cases, and I believe that this proposal is good and that it should be accepted and accepted with all the observations we have heard from individual representatives here. Keep going. The bill also introduces a new legal aid institute, which introduces the use of modern forms of legal assistance communication such as the audio-videon conference and telephone conference, which will also speed up the effectiveness of the criminal proceedings. Thus, Articles 162a to 162.c prescribes who is authorised to seek or provide legal assistance for the purpose of conducting criminal proceedings and who is authorised under which conditions to refuse legal aid, which actions may be carried out by means of an audio-video conference or telephone conference and the manner in which it is carried out. ... Contemporary forms of legal assistance communication have already been introduced by many European countries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But so far in our legal system, it has been possible, but indirectly, to conduct an audio visual conference as a means of providing legal assistance, based on Article 10. The Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters and, as I mentioned, the second additional protocol of the European Convention on Mutual Judicial Assistance in Criminal Matters, signed by Croatia in 2004, regulates the possibility of using an audio-videone conference in criminal proceedings. However, as evidence cannot be conducted directly in our criminal proceedings by means of these modern methods or audio video conferences, these are the very changes that are made possible. And thirdly, what is important is that these amendments, amendments and additions to the Law are proposed, is the amendment to Article 181(2). The law on criminal proceedings supplementing the catalogue of criminal offences for which special measures may be carried out, in accordance with the amendments and additions of the Criminal Code and the Convention on Cybercrime and the United Nations Convention against Corruption. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area. Penalty of bribery in economic business. I think it is also a good amendment proposed by the Committee on Justice to extend the catalogue of criminal offences and the criminal offence referred to in Article 224a. Criminal acts of computer fraud and Article 344. Penalty law criminal acts of illegal business. By supplementing the catalogue of criminal offences with all these corrupt acts, it is quite justified because it is generally known that corruption acts are generally done in four eyes without witnesses, without material thresholds and the only and more effective way to prove them is to conduct these specific investigative actions. Finally, I can conclude that these amendments and additions proposed by these laws, that the criminal procedure will increase its effectiveness and efficiency and that for these reasons these amendments should be accepted and complemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72386	Thank you. Does the Proposer want a representative? Here you go. State Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72387	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! Let me in the final review just thank you for supporting this relatively short but I hope for the substantial amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act, but also a somewhat broader context that has been discussed on the proposal for this law. Namely, it is an opportunity to say that when it comes to reforming criminal proceedings this is not the end. Namely, it is ongoing and is proposed and one systematic reform of the criminal proceedings will be prepared. However, systematic reform of criminal proceedings requires time and requires some analysis just to avoid frequent repetitions and then to come often with amendments and additions of laws, for example, even like this one that has already changed for the fourth time. However, if we are doing the change system, I say it takes time, it takes time to assess what the needs of Croatia really are. In that direction it's under way... a working group, a small project is under way, involving foreign consultants who need to help us in this or give us a comparative representation of where it is going and what a regulated criminal procedure is in other countries so that Croatia can identify itself on that path for the best possible solutions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, in this direction first, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will, because of the importance of the scope of the change, because it will require a completely new role for the police, the State's Attorney's Office and ultimately the court will require this additionally possible employment, quite certain education, equipment and financial resources. For this reason, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will firstly propose a platform of principles that can be presented and in this House before the text of the law is passed, just to assess and assess in advance whether the path to such a systematic big procedure is good and it will take some time. And in that direction it is a warning to be systematic and clear they are always welcome. However, we live in a dynamic time and the right and at all the change in the legal frameworks is extremely dynamic, and this is not only the case in Croatia where this could possibly be understood because we are still a country in transition that has changed the system deeply and where certain phenomena in practice should then be quickly reacted rather than happening in the countries of the European Union simply because the dynamic time requires a rapid reaction of the system especially to various forms of criminal behaviour, and there is the International Community, I will not say that there is a problem but is a systematic and effective solution for these behaviours, which are otherwise sophisticated by their performance, the hidden stand effectively in the way. In this direction, a number of international acts and documents to which we should then react and to which our legislation should be harmonised. Therefore, the catalogue of criminal acts relating to special exceptional measures... The criminal measure in this direction also extends to these corrupt offences. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, I must say about these exposures that, in the reference to legal sources, the Government of the Republic of Croatia cited as a legal source and another additional protocol on the European Convention on mutual judicial assistance in criminal matters. It is true and therefore also in citing legal sources it is not listed as something that the Republic of Croatia is harmonized with at this time because it is not in force because it has not been ratified by a sufficient number of states. However, the explanation of this text of the law as a proposer has stated that it has indeed not been ratified, in... The number of states is not in force, that the Republic of Croatia has signed it but has not ratified it, but this protocol regulates the issue of international legal aid with the second additional protocol. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is stated and what I think seems clear to me is the fact that precisely for these reasons, because it has not been ratified by a sufficient number of countries, and including our neighbouring countries, the use of modern methods of audio video conferences could not be applied even if the Republic of Croatia ratified it. However, precisely because of the fact that the modern forms of crime, particularly regional co-operation in this case, require and require, in fact, the need to make use of these methods available, is proposed with the existing Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters, and I am glad that this legal solution is supported. In a broader context, the aim of this law is not directly simply this change that needs to contribute to an effective fight against crime. That's why the aim of this law is not only with these three amendments. But I am pleased, and I agree with this part that the Croatian state cannot only exercise repressive measures to show its readiness and determination in the fight against crime. At the end of the line, the repressive apparatus stands at the end and shows its effectiveness to be successful... And punishment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the criminal system and criminal law are those which, by means of repression or conduct of criminal proceedings, punish and then combat in particular, at least in my court, need other parts of the system which, hopefully, would make the judicial system at least less employed in that segment. But effective tools should be given to the judicial system, so these methods are also, so that they can react successfully and be effective in the processing of criminal offences, of course not only corrupt or criminal acts of organised crime but also all other criminal forms of conduct. As far as criminal catalogues are concerned, it is true that we can always talk about whether we have everything covered. Crimes and penalties essentially change, they expand, I said, it happens on an international stage because crime knows no borders, it increasingly connects, and the task of the international community is interrelated to this successful response. As regards this catalogue of criminal offences, the Committee on Justice has given an amendment that will be accepted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and proposed two more works to be covered by this catalogue. These are crimes of computer fraud and illegal mediation. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I really thank you for the debate and support of this law and I say in a broader context which gave me the opportunity to announce, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, a truly rooted reform of the Criminal Procedure Act during 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72388	Thank you. This concludes the debate on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72389	We're going to the vote. First is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure. What? Dear Representative Zeljko Pecek on behalf of the HSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72390	Thank you very much, Mr. President. According to everything, we are expected to vote on a proposal for a decision on the election of presidents and members of the National Monitoring Council...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72391	When it's a colleague's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72392	If I were to beg, I'd only started to say one more sentence. Please, please, please, please, please, [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72393	When the motion comes to vote, before then you'll get the word and then you'll get... What?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72394	What's the difference, now or what?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72395	The difference is that we're going in a row now, you're not proposing a delay in voting on the Penal Procedure Act. So we are going to vote on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure. The debate is closed. The amendment proposed by the Committee on Justice has been accepted by the applicant. It takes 77 votes to pass this law. 77 votes in favour. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Gentlemen, there was a voice missing. Which you can't hear, a little harder. We repeat the vote once again, please vote those who have declared that you will vote. The result? 77 votes for, 4 abstentions and one against, the proposed Law amending and supplementing the Criminal Procedure Act was adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72396	Moving to the next 14. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Waste Act, with the Final Proposal for the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 535. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection, the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction and the Committee on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning, Mr. Ruzhinski, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72397	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. This Law amending and supplementing the Waste Act has resulted from several events that have occurred in recent months, lately. One of these is primarily screening in the area of environmental protection where it is indicated that a certain change and addition of certain laws in the area of environmental protection is needed. It is also one of the other things that has happened is the adoption of a waste management strategy adopted by this House in the 8th month of the past year, and this has led to us having to adopt certain amendments and amendments to the law in terms of compliance with the European Directive. An example of this harmonisation is the requirement to introduce, for example, rules for those parts of waste that we did not have in the present law, such as the need to adopt a Regulation on titanium dioxide, so on a single filling used in the production of ceramic tiles. This production does not exist in Croatia. However, everything covered by the European directives and regulations must also be introduced into our legislation. In addition, an extremely significant element in waste management is the basis that the polluter pays, so that whoever is responsible for the creation of waste is as much as the one who puts this product on the market, so traders and ultimately the users themselves must assume their responsibility, so that we also had to align that part more closely with European legislation. Reporting, a continuous reporting to the European Commission which will be needed in the future and which is today, is also covered by the amendments and additions to this law. The special part is dedicated to these new rules that we have to make in the future, which we will bring after the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the laws, just as we have brought the Regulation on packaging and packaging waste which has shown extremely good results and has shown that the path which we have set out is justified and that we have succeeded in a very short period of time only in this year to achieve exceptional results in not only the environment but also that such one approach is based on this provision that the pollutant pays with relatively small fees paid by those who are related to the production of what is produced, puts into packaging, we have managed to launch new production, we have managed to launch the use of waste raw materials as valuable raw materials. The import stopped, the need to import waste glass, waste paper, is that everything that can be used is used as useful waste and that drives both the economy and employment. Just for one example, looking at the total over the past eight months if we look at the packaging and packaging and the waste tire regulation is an estimate according to our data that it's open somewhere around a thousand 300 new jobs without telling us what jobs it's about. So these are all the things that led to it being in other rules, so in other areas we have to apply the same system. We apply it through the fund, the Fund is that Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund which manages this system with, say, financial parties and is also able to take care of these changes and additions of laws and certain legal entities that are outside the fund, so that producers and users and traders in the system can join in taking care of this waste through the payment system. Here it is, with certain details of the interpretation of certain provisions and the introduction of certain concepts related to the waste directive, this is the content of this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Waste Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72398	Thank you. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, distinguished representative Marko Širac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72399	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The area of waste management is governed by the Waste Act, the Environmental Fund Act, energy efficiency and waste management strategy. A number of good measures and activities to manage waste have been taken since the date of the adoption of the Waste Law in 2004, according to the Croatian Democratic Community's Club. The Ministry of Environmental Protection has adopted three important sub-legislative acts: the Regulation on packaging and packaging waste, the Regulation on the management of waste tyres, the Regulation on standards, the procedure and the method of determining compensation to property owners and units of local self-government. all this has created a prerequisite for the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund to provide funding for waste management activities. Of the measures taken, he would only point out the most significant. All wild waste dumps and other waste dumps have been identified. There have been identified dumps of hazardous waste and measures taken to resuscitate them. The 176 municipal waste dumps in our country are under way. Space plans shall determine locations for waste dumps. The organisation of the collection and use of packaging waste works very well and here the Secretary of State pointed out several significant activities carried out in the disposal of this packaging waste until its recycling and its use, the reduction of imports and, of course, because this waste is now used as raw materials in another industry. And of course, it's open, here, as is said, about a thousand 300 jobs where our activities work. Waste tyres are also collected and processed. The ministry gave 15 concessions for waste recovery, gave 10 concessions for waste collection, 4 concessions for tire recovery. Our counties gave 15 concessions for packaging waste while 6 counties, among which the City of Zagreb and Zagreb County unfortunately did not initiate the procedure to resolve the issue of concessions for packaging waste. Amendments and additions to this Act shall primarily aim to comply with this Act with the legislation of the European Union and, above all, to express certain procedures in the field of waste management, as well as the adoption and content of sublaws in accordance with European Directives with the time limits of adoption. I would stress that the amendments to the Law provide for the adoption of implementing rules that will regulate waste management from the titanium dioxide industry that the secretary of state has already mentioned here, that we do not have such production. But since we are harmonising legislation and, of course, tomorrow, if we enter the European Union, that doesn't mean we won't have that kind of production. Then, for the production of polychlorinated biphenyls and polychlorinated terphenyls and the way and process of waste management containing asbestos, and as you know with asbestos, we have some serious problems in Castles and of course, the only question is when this production of asbestos products and containing asbestos will be resolved in the Republic of Croatia properly. Another important issue to be addressed by the amendments to this Act is the payment procedure for the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund to be used for the preparation, implementation and development of the system of collection and disposal of specific categories of waste. Public powers shall be conferred on the Fund to carry out its activities prescribed by this and the existing law. Edit option... Special types of waste through a company to be established by payment bonds in such a way that the Fund concludes an appropriate contract with such a company. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this is one of the important newspapers that we are harmonising with the provisions of European legislation and where, in fact, those who have an obligation to pay compensation, but also to take care of, or ensure, the costs of taking care of their waste, have the right to set up a company that will regulate relations with our Fund in the right way. That taking care of this waste in every way can work properly. As regards the content of certain provisions of this Act, we of the HDZ Club have no objections to the content. Although the Waste Act will once again need to be amended in order to comply with the new Law on concessions, the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives considers that this Law should be adopted and will therefore support the adoption of this Act. Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72400	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative of Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72401	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Since the implementation of the Waste Act and its implementing rules, and in particular during the screening for Chapter 27 of the Environment, it has been observed that certain failures and inaccuracies of certain legal solutions that have indicated the need to amend the structure of existing laws have been made, of course, and the IDS Club will support this. The strategy for the protection of the environment of the Republic of Croatia and the National Environment Action Plan found that inadequate waste management is the biggest problem of environmental protection in the Republic of Croatia. It is for the institutions of the Republic of Croatia to leave this problem as one of the priorities in finding a solution with the provision of funds, knowledge and new technologies. The unregulated waste management system is negatively maintained on the environment, on water, on air, on air, on climate, on human health, on the plant and animal world, and in particular the emphasis of drinking water as one of the fundamental national resources. The adoption of the Waste Law has taken a significant step towards the start of a real solution to this problem, but also the start of alignment with the legal acquis of the European Union in the field of waste management and I hope that the process will continue with the adoption of implementing rules and documents. I also consider the vision and priorities of waste management as national. The idea of waste management in the Republic of Croatia as so-called a non-depositary concept that seeks as an ideal should certainly be welcomed and its achievement would require the closure of the circle from the avoidance of waste, reduction of quantity and harmfulness, recycling and recovery, whether mechanical, biological, energy or other until the exploitation of the internal residue. Of course, the same would have been the prerequisite for permanent education, education and education of all and participation of citizens from the initial phase to the realization of the project itself and the management itself. So by education and education, we influence our awareness of the need to avoid waste generation as a priority in the modern waste management hierarchy and no less important separate waste collection. It is very important that public attitude towards waste is realistically reflected and changed because it is mostly negative and results in a reluctance or even hostile attitude towards the location of buildings and waste management facilities, which is not new at this time and in this state. Namely, there is no systematic education of the public, of the administration and of the political structures and of the workers in the waste management business. We're dealing with a situation where waste and waste management are factored as a problem, but not by themselves, but by someone else's needs to be solved, and it's said that we need to solve the waste, but we're not going to do it in our own backyard. This is why conflicts, politics, bickering and not listing are almost regular in addressing the problem of waste and achieving sustainable development because there are different interests often conflicted by even state bodies, local self-government units, economic operators, professions, politics, other public votes, etc. The activities of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund under the disposal programme and the Environment Protection Agency itself, which sets up a waste and waste database, respectively, are to be supported. It is also important that the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, together with the Environmental Protection Fund, has in many cases been able to assess decisions made on the ground, spatial and technical documents, from environmental impact studies to local and building permits, and that funds from the fund are directed to those who have recognised the problem of waste and set out in its resolution. I cite here the example of Labin and labinity as a positive example and thank the ministry in this case. Taking into account the regulatory and waste management strategy, I would like to believe that the process of education, education and technology and waste management will be accelerated to the overall benefit. We at the IDS Club will support this proposal to amend and supplement the Waste Act and I believe that this will achieve another objective towards the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72402	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, distinguished representative Jaksa Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72403	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! I must say that we will also support this proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Waste Act. Obviously, we need to talk to the European Union because then we become smarter. Well, that's how they come up with the laws. I wouldn't speak of any particular remarks. However, I would talk about something that seems problematic. For example, Article 33 of this Amendment and Supplement Law states in nine points what all the Minister or Minister responsible for Environmental Protection must bring, therefore, which regulations must be adopted even when you see those nine points, when it would be regulated with what should be regulated on the ground, then I would likely have this problem solved. This problem is certainly if not the biggest and certainly one of the biggest problems facing this country. Unfortunately, I have to say that my opinion is that small shifts have been made in recent years except for this commendable action of this packaging waste that has produced some results. There is no movement, but the affairs are created day by day. Here, just look at the Macarska solution that the fund has invested money in the recovery or will invest money in the recovery of the former dump and today you have waste balming in Makarska in the city, in the street of residential buildings and transportation you don't know where. They have an agreement with Sinja, but then you have every day complaints about it, strikes or demonstrations. You have a problem, it's one of the problems, Makarska is just one picture. Practically, the whole of Dalmatia is like that. The truth is, we have adopted the strategy and the Waste Act and we have established in the strategy that we will have county waste disposal sites, regional waste disposal sites, and it is all very well imagined and it is a bit of a realisation or almost nothing, and that is the problem. It's a big problem and every day it's going to get bigger. As I was already telling this speaker that until we realize that this is a state problem, and as harsh as this sounds, we don't centralize this problem and we don't solve it in a way that could possibly and coerce it won't be solved. Because you've got what Poirot used to talk about. People are uninformed, I won't say uneducated, but they have an aversion to being around them as logical as it is. On the other hand, you know how to do it? In Europe, they have long come up with and solved this through various subsidies, through various contributions to these local units, and even to privates, things are resolved. You have in Split, in Split-Dalmatin County a huge problem with location, that county center for waste management and the best location no one even mentions it? Nobody's even mentioning it. These are the Tupinoloms above Kaštel, the waterproof, with the transport closest, but because of the psychological charge of the surrounding population, there's no way to mention it. And there's no way he's gonna take care of any city, any municipality, any county. It's something that seems to be a big problem to me, and it's causing a lot of wandering, so according to my information, I don't think there are any system solutions, but it's thinking of partial solutions, and that's not good. That's not good. Here, I wanted to warn you about it. I've talked about it a lot before. So we have nothing against this amendment to the law and we will vote for it, but I warn that this problem will not be solved with this law and the addition of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72404	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative of Jure Bitunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72405	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I would correct my colleague, Jakša Marasovic, in the section when he said the following, quote: "Apart from five packagings, the government or the Ministry has done almost nothing about waste management over the past few years." It is simply not true. We are all witnessing that, with the adoption of a certain regulatory and legal framework, particularly when it comes to this law that we are supplementing, the Waste Act, and before that, I would like to mention the waste management strategy and the basic things that the Croatian Government and the competent ministry that they have set up in the long run, I believe that we and the Parliament have made quality decisions here. On the other hand, when it comes to county centres, I agree that some things should be speeded up and the ministry is working on it, pressure means the county to bring final solutions. And on the issue of Makarska and other problems that have arisen in Croatia over the past few years, the fact is that the Ministry has made the right moves to seek adequate solutions, solutions given the current situation and to protect It's a wider area and thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72406	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Bekavac Marijan.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72407	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Marasovic found nothing to be done at waste management. That's incorrect. This government has just done a lot in waste management, and nearly 176 wild waste dumps have been recovered, which only speaks for itself. I don't think for the last 50 years this problem has worked as much as this government has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72408	Thank you. The word on behalf of the HSS Club has a distinguished representative, Željko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72409	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to say that we at the HSS Club will support this bill that we adopt in an emergency procedure, even if we are not all thrilled by the way we adopt these laws. We are not until the end satisfied with the quality that lies between these 40 articles that we define. First of all, we, as usual, use the phenomenal reason why we adopt amendments to the law under the same procedure, which is to ensure the conditions for compliance with the European Union. Well, probably a few times an emergency procedure in this area could be explained by the state of waste where we are quite here compared to Europe and also by the wishes of Croatian citizens far away. What bothers us most most is that we in the Assembly must adopt amendments to the law by an urgent procedure, and the Ministry will adopt sub-region acts at a snail's pace. Such an emergency procedure in the Assembly, and in the Ministry a slow procedure because sublegal acts or regulations will be able to be adopted within a year or within two years of the adoption of these amendments. It's a completely unknown reason for me, and I'm surprised that the Ministry can't handle an area this important that doesn't work without the regulations within a few months. My opinion is, in fact, that the deadline for the adoption of the Regulation is six months. However, this is within the power of the minister and it is likely that these amendments should make sure that the sublaws without which the law does not work are passed within the expected time limit. What we're not satisfied with at the HSS Club is one still motherhood relationship to local self-government units. It's common for us to give them responsibility. We normally hire them to remove waste, for example, if it was dumped by an unknown person in their area, and for that we don't give them money. What will happen if someone in a small municipality throws out dangerous wastes that would cost several million kunas. Of course, this municipality will not be able to resuscitate it, and the Ministry did not predict that it was involved in the removal of such waste, but was responsible for it by the local self-government unit or city and municipality. I suppose this overrich Environmental Protection Fund could single out some money for these activities directly, and given the problem that is current and acute, something might also be done to support, under quotes, the establishment of municipal redistribution, so I will also call it under quotes by the waste police in local self-government units. This could in any case be co-financed and helped. What we are also not satisfied with is the definition of packaging or products in a law where manufacturers are obliged in a regulated manner to inform consumers of the essential properties of products and packaging. Well, we buy too often in chains, we have a lot of import products, and there's no translation on that product, there's no even instructions for using this product, let alone to write about packaging. The penalties there are symbolic and I have not noticed that anyone has been reported by the trade chains or by a manufacturer who does not respect that law, so I advise and ask the Ministry to take care of the place where this waste occurs or to try to change the situation as much as possible. But what's completely unknown to me here, which is why we were lurking in front of asbestos? The asbestos has unfortunately been present in Croatia for decades. We all know the consequences of the people in Dalmatia, and especially the workers who worked in its production. We haven't done anything yet, and we're just now doing the procedures by which we're going to rule with this waste called asbestos. For me it's at least questionable and I think that through these changes to the laws that are three times in two years, that at least someone should have remembered asbestos. Or maybe he didn't want to remember. We are particularly unhappy that the construction waste management procedure will be regulated within the next two years because the regulation will be adopted within two years. So is it just so complex that it should wait two years? Or maybe this is how a construction lobby is protected that will have two more years of mastering in the wrong way by this waste. We would like this area to be carefully regulated, we would like to have no emergency procedure for a law that is significant, which allows the ministry a different procedure than the Parliament. And what is even worse, we change that law three times in two years and say that we are partially in line with the regulation of the European Union. I think the third reading here in Parliament deserves at least a more precise explanation. Why we are only partially harmonised, when we are fully harmonised and what priorities for this ministry, or for the overrich fund available, can be said with billions of kunas to get rid of this waste as soon as possible. Finally, we will support this bill. We expect the ministry not to change it too much, that is, to come up with a complete proposal and expect it to decentralise that money that cities, municipalities, the county would not only have obligations, and what is called support in a financial sense is constantly missing and what I say again is not foreseen here. I advise and ask the Ministry to shorten the deadlines for the adoption of the rules from two years to six months because if we adopt amendments to this law in Parliament, it will not be possible to apply for two years until the rules have been passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72410	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72411	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I am sorry that my colleague, Pacek, did not read this law, because on the other hand, it reads in the last paragraph: "and the way and procedures of waste management that contains asbestos for EU directives in the field of waste management in the European Union", etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72412	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Vladimir Stengl.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72413	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The waste management strategy of the Republic of Croatia adopted in 2005 envisioned guidelines and objectives of the waste management system in line with European Union regulations. Disposal of waste, or self-deposit of waste. Disposal of waste – yes. Exploitation of valuable waste properties – yes. The polluter pays – yes. Disposal of specific categories of waste – yes. In all this, the role of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. As explained by the proposed amendments and additions, the proposed amendments and additions are necessary in order to fully comply with EU rules on waste management and the implementation of the polluter pays principle by introducing compensations to cover the costs of the waste management system of specific categories. All of this in order to build a complete waste management system in the Republic of Croatia is defined in the waste management strategy of the Republic of Croatia. So to this end, the concepts of a recycling yard, a loading station, a waste disposal facility are introduced. The deadline for the adoption of the waste management plan is amended from four to eight years, but with the annual enforcement check, which should certainly be highlighted. The term postponement is replaced by some concepts of rejection or by Article 2 of the concept of care, which also indicates more specifically what procedure is involved. It is certainly necessary to highlight Article 15 of the amendment, which states in Article 29: The Fund may carry out operations, prepare the collection and disposal of specific categories of waste by means of a contract to entrust the legal person referred to in Article 29(1) of this Act with the payment of compensation. The obligation of the producer and the importer to introduce as much as possible of the product in return packaging is multiplely significant. It reduces the amount of non-usable waste, reduces or rationalises energy consumption. In particular, Article 33 of the proposed Law amending and supplementing the Waste Act should be highlighted, with the final proposal for a law which lists and determines the powers of the Minister responsible for environmental protection in the adoption of the regulations to be governed, it was in the preceding and now only supplementing it. Waste management, standards, procedure and method of determining the amount of compensation, type and amounts to the specific category of waste, waste management containing asbestos, with the consent of the Minister of Health, storage conditions, treatment methods and conditions, again with the agreement of the other ministry, the management of mud from wastewater treatment devices if used for agricultural purposes. Procedures with medical waste, complemented by the basic Law on the adoption of implementing rules for the management of waste from the ethanol dioxide industry, polycorded biphenyls and polychlorinated... This amended and supplemented the Waste Act is in line with the Eu regulations and I support it unreservedly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72414	Thank you. The next one has a distinguished representative, Marijan Bekavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72415	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Today, we are on the agenda of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Waste Act. The implementation of the Waste Act and its implementing rules, and in particular during the screening for the chapter on environmental protection, have seen certain shortcomings which will be addressed by these amendments and amendments to the Law. The second half of 2005 established waste management strategies for the Republic of Croatia, which was presented during the screening and which was found to have provided for basic guidelines and objectives in the development and achievement of the entire waste management system in the coming period, all in accordance with the European Union rules. The waste management strategy deals primarily with removing the policy and practice of waste management so far. One of the fundamental fundamentals of the establishment of an efficient and complete waste management system is that the manufacturer must assume responsibility for waste disposal according to the wage pollutant principle. In the application of the Law, it has been observed that not all economic instruments and their incentive are precisely arranged for the implementation of this Act. The waste producer and environmental polluters undertake to settle the full cost of waste disposal and to take preventive measures and to remove damage caused by their action. The role of the Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund, which is based on the law, should certainly be highlighted here, which has public authority to carry out the tasks of its law- prescribed activity. The Fund provides funding for environmental protection against fees prescribed by law as well as from other sources in accordance with specific laws. The Fund’s resources in addition to other purposes are also used to encourage avoidance and reduction, waste generation and processing and exploitation... ingredients of waste. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This government, the Resort Ministry and the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund have already done very much in the field of waste management and collection that it is indeed for every praise. 430 million pieces of plastic and PET packaging are truly impressive data. It soon moves towards the disposal of packaging waste, waste tyres, electrical and electronic devices, vehicles that have run out of life, waste batteries, batteries, waste oils and so on. If the result is like plastic and PET packaging, then we'll really be able to tell how we did the big job. There will be no wild dumps in our forests, fields and waterways that created an ugly picture in the front row about ourselves and our relationship to the environment. I am really pleased that by adopting the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Waste Act with the Final Proposal for a Law in line with European legislation, we will have a clean and orderly Croatia. We need this in the front row because of ourselves and our children, but also because of the large number of guests visiting our beautiful country. We should certainly take care of the education of the youngest in environmental protection and waste management because it is the best guarantee that we will have a clean environment in the future. And finally, my full support for this law and commendation to the rest of the ministry for the great work they're doing on the environmental protection plan and waste management plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72416	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72417	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. Here's another amendment to the Waste Act. I think that it will fully agree with the European Union's views and that this problem, at least administratively, will be resolved. In fact, if we're talking about waste, we need to talk a little bit about what it was like, but also about what it's like today. In fact, there's been a lot of work done in the junkyard. That's what anyone who walks around can say. If nothing else has more plastic packaging around, but unfortunately the mountains of garbage are still in the woods. So it's not the ministry, it's our education and our waste management. The waste management strategy has also defined waste collection and I think it is finally some businessmen, and even those who have been dealing with it have figured out what is the benefit, or which business can do with waste. At least I notice that there's this Brkovic who's been processing the packaging waste that he's built two more big halls, so I guess he realized that both the future of him and his family is in that. What happened with the collection of PET packaging and plastic packaging, I think it's invisible to us. And today you can see the tails, here, at these big stores, the Konzum, they all bring bottles. Those bottles were still standing all around the other day, and I think it's great. And now let's imagine 56 thousand tons to re-dispose of those bottles, how much that is. Unfortunately, everything doesn't come together with us. One part I think is still being exported to China, so I guess the Chinese understand what that value is. As far as paying for the pollutants, that's very good. Finally, all those producing waste should and pay for the disposal of that waste and this is well defined. In the future, it moves with the collection of car tyres already announced by the announcement of collection is far less. You can see less and less of a tire in nature. It's been everywhere and everywhere. The problem still, here's what needs to be solved, the problem of electronic waste. The batteries have been collected in the courtyards for a long time, but they're still everywhere, but I think waste oils are still spilling everywhere in nature. Who gets where? It is vital to continue to work on the educational work in kindergartens and schools. The occasional actions are very good, but it should be constantly emphasized in good, good cooperation with all those who can help. As far as it looks, here's the tourist resorts I think we've achieved safe Europe because if we look at Europe a little bit, we'll see that their streets are much dirtier than ours. Here's all the praise not only for us but for the tourists who come here. Unfortunately, here's what's going on, here, I have to say, on Sunday I saw behind the loud grain there's a little forester full of junk. So owners who use fat all summer and make good money are not able to organize foresters who exactly rely on these... Well, according to that, it takes also more inspection, even punishment anyway. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The quality of waste disposal must be increasing. Instead of garbage here, we'll get dumps, I guess. It is a great action, but big money will also be invested in the construction of real and quality dumps because unfortunately so far there has been garbage everywhere, dumps or dumps along the entire Sava River along the Drava, so wherever the gravel was taken out were dumps. This law also gives us full compliance with European regulations, so for the future, we all mention that titanium dioxide that is not produced in us, I guess because of the state of production, but one day and when it comes, we solved it by at least a regulation, and here, not to mention again, is asbestos. With asbestos, we still have a lot of problems, whether production or not, I hope that this production will stop and that this problem will be resolved very quickly. Finally, we should commend a very professional approach to waste management but also a great determination to address the problem in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72418	Thank you. I assume you were at Zrća, in my county when you know what's around Zrća. Correction of an incorrect quote, distinguished representative Lalic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72419	Well, thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Markovanovic has been repeating this for days, most colleagues point out that it is very important and very good that we comply with the laws of the European Union. Oh, my fellow Markovanovic. We do not comply with our regulations with the laws of the European Union. Just look at that list of synchronizations, and you'll see that we...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72420	But what are you correcting, his?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72421	Inaccuracy because it says we're coordinating. We do not fully coordinate and we citizens of the Republic of Croatia would be much happier if we were to comply with standards rather than regulations. But if in the law we leave a deadline for implementation, not to adopt implementing acts that are 2 years old, then we can say that this law actually means nothing for the next 2 years and does not mean that it will not be implemented, rather than implement the law, it does mean that it does not follow those standards that are necessarily necessary. As long as we walk our way...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72422	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Pacek.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72423	Thank you very much. So I am correcting the incorrect quote of my colleague Markovanovic, who said we are getting full compliance with European regulations with these. That's incorrect. It is incorrect because here and only the ministry writes that we will partially comply with this law as regards the European Union and here we are changing the law three times, we will remain partially harmonised and we will not apply it for a year to two, until the rules are passed. Therefore, for the next two years, we will not be in line with the European Union, and I suppose longer.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72424	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72425	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Otherwise, I did not intend to report on this subject for many years, although I worked in the municipal economy for a number of years, and I was the manager or director of a company dealing with waste management, a municipal society, but I was initiated by my colleague Marasovic, otherwise my friend with certain remarks he made regarding what the government, or the competent ministry, has done over the past year and a few days. So let me do this one. I believe that Croatia is, and we all know that Croatia is part of the global market and in such a global market there is also global environmental pollution and everything else. Since we are also large, unfortunately, still large importers, if we look, compare import-export goods in Croatia, although trends and economic indicators are going to better benefit Croatia, means that we are somehow condemned to take care of both foreign waste and to solve this issue. Thank God it's at the price of every product and Coca-Cola, I don't even know any other world brand when it comes to these drinks or anything else, that the price of that product includes taking care of them. Generally, a response to global pollution can only be solved through laws compatible with European and global legislation at all. In that direction, I believe that when the current law is passed, the still applicable law that the ministry is de facto, I'll say according to a sonic guess in the srid. What's this about? Let's see that these interventions that are now under the law in question are not as material as formal in nature. I would say that those laws make something more precise, not something, but more precise, and that the European Commission's comments on chapter 27, when it comes to the environment, are well-accepted in these amendments and additions to this existing law. However, given what has already been said by some colleagues, I believe that there are some remarks, I believe that the minister, the competent ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, have done great things in this matter over the past three years and that the only healthy environment and environmental protection, when it comes to Croatia as a tourist destination, is one of the preconditions and economic care. What certainly concerns local self-government units is the price of this care, especially when it comes to households. However, we must be aware that by regulating the dump and accepting the concept that the polluter pays that both households and all others who are obliged to take care of their waste will have to submit the price of that cost. In this direction, I believe that good regulation and good control should also be given one pressure, one pressing on trade chains, which are also large importers, so that all together, the price for the Croatian man, for the Croatian household, is a real price rather than that, possibly because of some failures or when it comes to the law, rules or any other formal or any other nature to put on the end consumer. I don't think the ministry will allow such a failure. Another thing he would mention is the issue of competent inspection services that must do their job, in terms of global environmental protection in Croatia. Certainly, and education here plays, and I believe that the ministry has already made certain shifts in this direction. And as for even the wild dumps that were still in Croatia, my opinion is that the arrangements of the ministry, the units of local self-government, as well as in Makarska, which has been mentioned, are going towards one goal for pollution to be controlled and to avoid pollution and in a way that we should jointly strive to address certain problems that arise in the area of a particular county, in the area of several local self-government units in order to deal in an agreed and quality manner. I believe that the decisions and arrangements signed by the ministry also with Split, Sinja, Imotski etc. that no harm has been done to those units of local self-government and that it is only a hand to help the environments that need to be helped. In that direction, I welcome all those who have signed such contracts and I don't think there should be any reservations. This would be my small contribution to this debate, but first of all I can thank my report to my colleague, Marasovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72426	Thank you. On behalf of the club, please. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72427	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. Based on this debate that is being held today in this House, I found it appropriate to point out on behalf of our club that in the past two years visible shifts have been made in the management of all kinds of waste in the Republic of Croatia. Our ministry, the Environmental Protection Fund, from the day of law-making to today, we can only congratulate them on the activities you have done. You must and we must all know the Croatian public, that for 60 years in the Republic of Croatia we have passed beautiful laws in the then state that was. I've been working in practice and I've had the opportunity to work under these many laws, but it couldn't be realized because no sources of funding were provided, there was no political will to realize the environmental protection program in our country. If you look at just what's been done since the moment the funds started pouring into our Environmental Protection Fund, how many programs he's been running, the resolutions of municipal delays prompted, so there's no objection being made here that the funds are accumulated in one place. These funds, except for some two or three million labour costs of those employed in the fund, are returning to our local self-government units. I've had experience in contacting people from Europe. Many congratulate us on this. Because look, we can, we could set up a system in the Republic of Croatia to do all this on a voluntary basis. Well, we did it for 60, 70 years, nobody did anything. Well, in Zagreb, it was delayed, in the largest city of the Republic of Croatia. Millions of cubes of garbage were stuffed in holes, dumped in the water stream, etc. In order for Zagreb to come, however, he started a little earlier during the time when the mayor was Minister Dropulić, but today we have one arranged municipal dump that solved the problem of delaying the city of Zagreb, but, of course, there will be other measures to be taken. Therefore, we at the HDZ Club, the Croatian Democratic Community's Representatives Club, are in the view that this law should be passed, that we should not push for sublegal acts to be formally adopted in three or four months, and then they cannot be applied in practice because unreal solutions are installed. The Ministry must be given the opportunity to make every implementing act a solid study, to bring it into practice. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72428	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda item. We're moving on to the next 15. Proposal for a law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 542 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and when establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure for the adoption of this law. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? ... Come on, I'm sorry. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here, I apologize, I've moved on to the next item of the agenda, but I've forgotten the final representative of the proposer. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72429	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I won't be long, but I think I have some things to answer. First of all, I thank all those who spoke, and all those who spoke said they would support these amendments and supplement laws that are extremely important. There are a few things I think you need to say here. So Mr. Honorable Representative Jaksa Marasovic said that every time after the meeting in Europe, we become smarter, so we change the laws. I must tell you that we are in line with the laws of the European Union and the directives that change in themselves. During the screening, we spoke for example. I'll say only two examples, on the directive... which you know clearly what it means, so wastewater city and waste water according to the old directive, which has already been adopted, which has not yet entered into force. So we had to talk about harmonising our legislation with the old directive, looking at the new directive, which is not that simple. As soon as the new one comes into force, we will have to comply with the new one, and we will again contact not with this law, but with someone else. We've just received notice that the Directive on the transport of waste, so... that it has been changed and that we must comply with it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it is the dynamics of one alignment with Europe and we will do so so that it is not our fault, everything we have not fully complied with so far with the provisions of Europe. The other thing is what we are trying to bring together not only legislation but the real application of all that, that's what Europe is asking of us, that's what we are trying and doing through this law and what we will continue to do. Both the honourable representative Marasovic and the esteemed representative, Pecek, also mentioned the long deadlines for the adoption of the rules laid down in Article 33. We've set deadlines that are the longest possible, but we won't stick to them, we won't accept them. Thank you very much for that six-month proposal. We are already, I will now tell you directly the packaging and the packaging waste is finished, the waste electrical, the electronic device will be made by the end of the year, the waste vehicles Regulation made, the waste batteries Regulation almost, still harmonizes with the interested parties. Waste tires are already in use. The waste from mining is something that will go next year, the waste oils are finished. The titanium dioxide industry also next year, PSB PST is finished, so construction waste has already been proposed, will go from next year. If within six months, if we stick to your six-month deadline, it'll all be over. However, we are taught by short-term experience in laws, note bene, this is not a third time but a second time. So the law is passed, this is the first change. So that's the second time in front of this Parliament. We have been taught by this experience to decide on these certain deadlines that surely guarantee and are in line with what we have taken over as a promise as the basis of the screening. As for small shifts in the last few years other than packaging, packaging is indeed one visible big shift, everyone is convinced, everyone sees, everyone can see that nothing sees more than packaging waste in the environment. Therefore, 472 million bottles of glass, fifth and so far have been collected. Compared to several thousand of the previous 56 thousand tonnes from 16 and 2005 respectively. 14 in glass, the glass was something more because the glass was well organized, somewhat better and harder. In five packagings, we've collected over 12,000 tons so far. It was assumed that in Croatia, eight months, 14 thousand tonnes were placed on the market in Croatia annually. So we're extremely successful. Well, you've all praised that and I agree. But what I'd like to say is that's what you might not see. They're waste dumps. Waste dumps are currently in the recovery, said a respected representative, 176 official unarranged dumps. That's what we've spent 188 million kuna on so far. Rehabilitation when we talk about wild dumps 327 wild dumps throughout Croatia, so the unofficial ones are arranged, 14 million kunas have been spent. More than 5 million kunas have already been invested in new waste management centres. When we talk about waste management centers, we can't say that nothing has been done in Dalmatia. This proposal regarding a dump for Split-Dalmatia above Kaštel is indeed one of the places we have been watching. However, neither is it considered, there are already a number of settlements around built, property issue etc., so it is working on that location that was previously determined. But that's why one such shift was made, in that sense, a shift was made in Zadar County in Benkovac where as a dump of the central future dump is envisaged, now in the procedure, we'll see what will happen, a quarry that is also unforgiving, which is one devastated part of the land that we're actually going to resuscitate and is extremely good at in this case. Makarska is a special example. Makarska is a special example of how it should not work, how local self-government does not care about what it is responsible for. Two years ago, the fund invested in a ballirque as a fire escape in the middle of the season when they blocked the road, when it smelled like all of Makarska, two years ago this Makarska was working, working with four, five interventions a year on our side, especially from the fund, because local self-government won't choose a new location, so it won't give a new location that we suggest move, we suggested certain protection measures not to feel the unpleasant smell that feels in the first, second house next to it, suggested a new location, the location wasn't approved, local self-government again does what it does every time, every time it sends us a message, gentlemen will get us people out on the road to do something. Then our fund and ministry must negotiate with the rest of the dumps, negotiate and negotiate with them to take over. So it's an ecluent example of how local self-government doesn't care and the state cares about this, so as far as the system solutions are concerned, and this law doesn't define a systematic solution, it's a law that gives a foundation. We have a strategy that suggests, we're working on a waste management plan. The county plans are already proposed in the good part, we coordinate, we determine all those locations that are possible and envisaged throughout the system, so that the distinguished representative Pacek our maternal relationship to the units of local self-government is in our plan weighing 2 billion kuna over the next five years. So I really can't accept that the Ministry of Environmental Protection, the Environmental Protection Fund, is not taking care of local self-government units. It's really the first time in a long history in these parts that someone from the central system has invested that much money in local self-government and everything that's been done. Asbesto here, this law speaks of asbestos waste. So, the very use and the very system of binding asbestos production is part of other laws, it couldn't be solved here. But I can tell you for your information something you probably don't know, that the Ministry of Environmental Protection has opened a tender, a two-stage tender, and there's just been a contract signed for rehabilitation programs, so recovery projects... It's a dump where asbestos and salons were put away. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How we're going to do that is the problem because you know the known problem in the production of asbestos tubes in conflicts of interest between manufacturers and themselves, so their demands and extensions in what we'd like to do there. We believe that there will be a certain solution and that we will be able to solve it in a way that people's health will stop being threatened. We've had a few meetings, we're working together with the other ministries, and we believe we'll do something. And maybe one short answer to your price question. What is foreseen is that everyone who is in the system, and that is the complete communal system, so all people, in a given area, in a given, no matter where they are, are paid the same price, so that the islands will not be threatened and that they will no matter what the more expensive part is to do and pay the same as they have so far. And otherwise, what has been done for the time being, is especially the esteemed representative of Marasović, which was made in Dalmatia, we can look at what is done at the Diklo dump site, Karepovac is in the system of recovery Diklo, Bikarac enters into financing through European funds, Olib, Silba, Molat all this has been cleaned up. No more junk. So it may be our fault that we're not giving you enough information, but we're also trying within the possibilities that we've made, and one piece right through the packaging waste is even visible. These other things are less visible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72430	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72431	Says Mr. Ruzynski that Makarska is an example of how we shouldn't work. Here... She took an example of how the state shouldn't work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We lack one particle to unite a simple plot, to form it and reach ownership...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72432	Correction of an incorrect allegation. You can't argue with the esteemed representative Cain under the correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72433	The problem is local self-government, but sometimes the problem is Mr. Ruzynski and the state. It's just that bureaucratism, that administration cost and nerve...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72434	You again. I give you a warning, please sit down. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Pacek.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72435	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, it is incorrect that you invest more than before for a local self-government unit. A good example is the town of Virovitica, where you have made the rehabilitation of the dump for the next three years despite the signed agreement. The second quote regarding the rulebook. It is incorrect to take spare time variations to make the rule before. It doesn't take you two years to bring something in six months or a year to bring something in within a few months or days. That's why it would be good if you said instead of two years we'd bring the regulations in within a year, instead of a year in six months. In any case, this is required by the Regulation on asbestos and the Regulation on construction waste, because these are the acute and current problems of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72436	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72437	I wanted to correct what Mr. Ruzicky didn't mention, but how can I not, then...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72438	How are you gonna fix something he didn't mention?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72439	I wanted to supplement the gentleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72440	You can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72441	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Waste Act. The amendments were submitted by MP Zvonimir Mršić and the Committee for Economy, Development and Reconstruction. State Secretary of the Ministry, Mr. Snotty. The amendment of the representative of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72442	The amendment is partly accepted in a way that the word "waste type" puts the point behind it, and the rest is deleted, and the provision would read as a whole: "The recycling yard is a building intended for the classification and temporary storage of specific types of waste."
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72443	Thank you. There's no representative. So in the part where the amendment is not accepted, we should vote. Please, let's get on with it. The result? 27 for, 3 abstentions, 56 against. In that part of the amendment is therefore not accepted. The Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction. Amendment 1?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72444	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72445	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 2?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72446	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72447	It becomes an integral part of the law. And Amendment 3?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72448	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72449	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? Unanimity with 85 votes for the proposed Final Bill. In accordance with the proposal of the Legislative Committee, I am voting on the following conclusion: The professional service of the Croatian Parliament is authorised to carry out the revision of the text of this law before its publication in the "National Journal". Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. ... About what? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The result? Unanimity with 84 for the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72450	Moving to the next item of the agenda 15. Proposal for a law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 542. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and when establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this law. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Here you go. Deputy Secretary of State of the Central State Administration, Mr. Maticic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72451	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. The Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia's powers to regulate certain issues in the Croatian Parliament's section of regulations has given power to the Government to regulate individual questions in its legislative delegation from the part of the Croatian Parliament for a period of one year from when that consent was given to the Government. The government assesses the necessary and proposes to the Croatian Parliament to continue to give it the legal power to adopt regulations on the basis of legal powers limited as before in the period when the Croatian Parliament is not sitting, and for the period when the Croatian Parliament is disbanded or its term of office has expired. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72452	Thank you. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system? Mr. Bosnjakovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72453	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament at the 64th session held on 26 September 2006 discussed the proposal for a law on the authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section, with the final proposal for a law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 25 August 2006. The Committee discussed the draft law on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 57. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In the debate, the Committee voted in favour of the motion to pass the law by an urgent procedure. After the debate, the committee proposed, by a majority of votes, 5 votes for and 2 abstentions, to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72454	Thank you. I'm interrupting the morning session. Continuation is at 15.00 hours. The PGS, SBHS, MDS, the distinguished representative, Željko Pavlic, will speak. It's 1:00 P.M. We're going to the afternoon session. Dear Representative Željko Pavlic, on behalf of the club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72456	... So here's what's important. [[Specially enabled.]] The PGS Club, the SBH, the IMF will not support.../The speaker has been excluded./... the law although as I said we were witnesses that such laws were automatically extended from year to year. We have no objection to the adoption of such a law, a law that would open up the possibility for the Government to intervene with its regulations but we are in favour of this law and these laws being strictly implemented. And precisely because, for example, the existing law has not been strictly implemented, that is because, in our opinion, the government has violated this very law, we, out of warning, will not support this law this time. So this law, like all existing laws, is also based on the Constitution, tells us that the Government can only adopt regulations in cases, i.e. at a time when the Croatian Parliament does not meet, this is nice and in the current law indicated, so that the Government has the right to adopt regulations from 15 December 2005 to 15 January 2006 and from 15 July 2006 to 15 September 2006. In addition, the government may also adopt some and regulations if the Parliament is disbanded and until the formation of a new government. We are witnessing that there has been a violation of this part of the law in this year. The promoter is in his materials lists the regulations that have been passed during the current law. This is about the 7th Regulation. This is one regulation, which is a Regulation supplementing the Law on the Payments of Judges and Other Judicial Officers adopted on 18 January 2006. So, there is a broken law, but what we would particularly like to warn is that it is a regulation that has not been mentioned here at all, and was adopted on 2 February 2006, and it is a well-known regulation on the level of water contribution, which was adopted at the government's meeting of 2 February 2006, while at the same time held at the 17th session of the Parliament. The 17th session of the Parliament was held both on 1st and 2rd and 3rd, etc. In February 2006, it started on January 25th. We think it's a big, visible, eclatant violation of the law that is currently in force. So that's one reason why we can't support this law, because we're afraid, that based on this experience, the government will also work in the following year. The second reason why we cannot support this law is also related to this Water Contribution Regulation, and the law says that the Government can regulate issues of the current, economic, politics in the part of the Croatian Parliament, except for changes in the state budget and regulation of taxes, therefore imposing certain imposes on the population. And this Regulation on the level of water contribution is exactly that. It's not a tax in a narrow sense, but it's also a major imposition that instead of acting positively on the economy, they acted exactly the opposite. As soon as the law was passed, there was paralysis of economic activity, especially in terms of construction because people were simply not willing to pay such a large amount of water contribution that was imposed on them and not by law. Our view was that it could only be done by law, as was the Croatian Peasant Party's proposal, but unfortunately it was made by a regulation. Then we mentioned that, for example. Next to that regulation in Zone A for a water contribution to the construction of an average residential house of about 100 metres of cubic size, that 60 thousand kunas of water contribution should be allocated. That was the price of bricks or carpentry. For a production plant of an average size of 5 thousand meters cubic, 125 thousand kuna and for a business space of 5 thousand cubic meters, as much as 500 thousand kuna. We think that the government has actually played the Parliament's trust and we don't intend to give it any support or support. We're not going to give her another chance, because I don't think she deserved it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72457	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, distinguished representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72458	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Not to repeat what my colleague said before. The Croatian People's Party Club will not support this bill for these same reasons, i.e. Because the government broke it alone during the law, so if it's not worth it to the government, it's not worth renewing. But I'd like to draw your attention to some of the figures that I've come to try to figure out how our legislative system works and what laws we're making. And about what a conto of these laws does to the government. From 1.1 this year to 6.9 this year in "The People's News" has been published, this House passed 38 laws. In these 38 laws, there is a letter and a number of 404 government obligations, which the government should do for the implementation of the law, so sublegal regulations practically with the power to modify and supplement the law. Of these 404, 155 of these sublegislative regulations concern those strategies we discussed, the government has made certain commitments to do something in the course of the implementation of the strategies, but there is still about two hundred and something in nine months, two hundred and some of the acts that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has modified what we have brought in this Parliament. We have rebelled against such practices many times in the adoption of concrete legislation where everything that is important and what directly really affects those to whom it applies, primarily taxpayers, the law defines roundly and on corners, and the right definition will be given by the Government by a regulation, regulation, order, indication and by which act it is necessary. During this year, I have here a list of these, and it has also been brought into the "National Journal" of 240 regulations that come from certain laws, 64 regulations that come from the same place and 42 other acts, orders, apparitions, appointments, etc. what comes from the laws that we have passed during the year, so a total of 346 regulations that amend the laws that we have adopted in this Parliament. What does that mean? It is primarily in these laws and in their practical conduct that rarely anyone can manage. Laik in no way. Secondly, this means that our laws are unarranged, indicative, declarative, those which are actually managed by the state cannot and are not managed by the state. The State shall be governed by government regulations, rules, orders and similar regulations. Now, that could all be an accident. It may be the result of ignorance, cripplingness, the unpreparedness of the promoter, which is likely, which is possible but not likely. My personal opinion and opinion of the Croatian People's Party Club is that this is intentional, that this is a system which, one more step further pushes into the background and function and the importance of Parliament and promotes the office system, the system in which the Government is ruling, and the other only listens to the hands and executes what the Government has said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72459	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Time now.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72460	Honorable Vice President, esteemed Secretary of State, esteemed Mr. Representatives. This is how, as provided for in Article 87(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (‘the EEA Agreement’). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, adopted on the basis of legal authority, ceases to apply within a period of one year from the date of the power granted, unless the Croatian Parliament clearly decides otherwise. That's the wording from the Constitution. As some issues are now regulated by regulations, the Government is actually recommending that they have a period of time, that I use that term by 31 December 2006. We simply don't need gentlemen. Finally, by 31.12., we have about three months left, and I hold that all these questions that the Government intends to regulate or that has regulated regulations so far are also being debated in this House. With today's dynamic discussion of the proposed agenda points, this is certainly possible. On the basis of the applicable Law on the Power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate the issues of certain parts of the Croatian Parliament, the Government adopted several regulations: the Regulation supplementing the Law on Obligations and Rights of State Officials on 23 December 2005 is in force; the Law amending the Law on Transport in Road Transport, also on 23 December 2005, there is a Regulation on the donation of dwellings and houses owned by the Republic of Croatia in the field of special state care for Croatian defenders and members of the family of the deceased, imprisoned or missing Croatian defenders from the Homeland War on 28 December 2005, then there is a Regulation amending and supplementing the Law on Waste, the Law amending the Law on State Measurement and the Cataster of Real Estate, then the Regulation amending and supplementing the Food Act, and this Regulation has been famous since 18 January 2006. The regulation is unconstitutional, clearly no one has questioned the constitutionality because it is the salaries of judges and other judicial officials before the Constitutional Court, but if it were the case, it would surely have been abolished. As she's leaving us, I'm afraid the next day the government will pass some regulation that Parliament doesn't need her either. Mr Pavlic also mentioned this second regulation, which was adopted on 2 February 2006, also beyond the legal deadline, which concerns the level of water contribution. This regulation was simply ridiculous, it was terrible, economically devastating and it is fortunate that under the pressure of the Croatian public it was withdrawn actually changed those heights by about 50%. So I calculated what that would mean specifically if she was in effect in Buzet and what it would cost us to get a building permit for 100 square meters of living space. Now, if we look at the location permit with an idea project of 2 thousand kuna, project documentation means 15 euros per square metre of 11,000 kuna, administrative fees of 100 kuna, then the municipal contribution in Buzet, which is absolutely the smallest in Istria, 11 thousand and 200, and then re-routed the 5% traffic value of 20 euros in Buzet for a garden of 500 squares 3 thousand and 675 kuna, the connection to the sewerage of the pausal of 6 thousand kuna, the water connection of 7 thousand 800, electricity per kilowatt 9 thousand 625 kuna, and then imagine a water contribution in that other zone of 12 thousand kuna and that to get a construction, location permit in one Buzet for a 100 square house means only for the paper of 64 thousand 425 kuna. Since everyone who builds a house of, say, 200 squares 130 thousand kuna in Buzet, where prices are certainly the lowest in Istria, and then we gentlemen wonder why the people in this country are building without a building permit. You know what this regulation was, that the water fee in the first zone, that is the sea plus the city of Zagreb was supposed to be 18 thousand kuna, in the second zone in the interior, let's say by the sea 12 thousand kuna, in the third zone 4 thousand 500 kuna. I really can't be surprised at that one I don't know about impertinence, I won't say political primitiveism or better said underestimating the common sense of the Croatian Parliament so let's say that the Croatian government, beyond the constitutional deadline, brings a regulation with such consequences. Not to adopt regulations with such consequences but to at all engage in the regulation of something that has been made clear to all that could cause the non-constitutional nature of the same. Someone on the other hand can say so we got only seven regulations during that period, actually eight of which were unconstitutional. Now someone is going to say if it's a lot, whether it's small, whether it's possible for the Parliament to do it in that period, whether these issues need to be determined or done in government at all, maybe that's hard to say now. The fact is, without regulations, we can't, that they're constitutional categories. But let's be serious. As it is not necessary to kick it out of the constitution and block the functioning of the country at those times when parliament is also meeting the government "needs to discipline" to at least stick to the Constitution and the law. So, what is a key regulation in this number of regulations, however, is this Regulation on the donation of apartments and houses owned by the Republic of Croatia in areas of special state care to Croatian defenders and family members of the dead, imprisoned or missing Croatian defenders. It's a couple of excellent political issues. Why was the government supposed to bypass the Parliament? Why did she avoid the debate? Why did she turn off the public when, in some ways, it was based on, say, the matter she regulated and was able to profit. For example, I do, I took out this regulation. It is about apartments and houses owned by the Republic of Croatia that are located in the area of special state care that are donated to Croatian defenders and members of the families of the dead, prisoners or missing Croatian defenders from the Homeland War who used and resided in those apartments and houses on 1 August 2005. What is actually trying to achieve these regulations, so that we do not now enter "some measure" each of them because there is no need to do so, but I want to say the regulations should certainly be left behind, they should be an exception. It must not happen that the Parliament is knowingly avoided. It is not necessary to take the rules of obligation in millions of kunas as mentioned. One word should not be guided by politics beyond the Parliament. If the deadlines are strictly fixed, it means, like in this case, a year since the adoption of these regulations, then it does not need to be extended to some new laws and deadlines, and it has been done within three months, because after that, the parliamentary majority will again adopt a regulation that will extend some relations by six months, a year, and eventually the Government can really propose a regulation that more to this country, to be so cynical, and neither the Parliament is necessary. I think so much that we cannot stand behind this proposal for a law on the powers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72461	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72462	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Cain incorrectly stated that this government does neither according to the Constitution nor by law. That's not what my colleague Cain is for, and you haven't offered any argument for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72463	Thank you. On behalf of the HSP Club, the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72464	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Deputy Secretary of State! The Croatian party club will not support the adoption of this law to give power to the government to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section. The Croatian Party’s right club considers that the manipulation of the provision of Article 87 is a right. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is about exceptions and not the rule, and we have turned this exception into a rule because it was also the case during the former government, it is also about these governments that we adopt the same law every year where we empower the Government as the Croatian Parliament that in our name we can adopt regulations with legal force and regulate issues that are within the jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, read Article 87. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Agreement and shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Agreement and from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. He says, "Stip is an exception." And when we turn the exception into a rule, we're already in trouble. So we keep having this same situation all the time. And we have to say that in this way we and this institute, the legal institute regulations with the legal force, are at stake. The regulations with the legal force primarily have seats in two cases, that is, the case of war, the direct threat of independence and unity of the state when normal Parliament cannot meet, that is one part. This part has all modern countries, EU member states and all democratic countries of the world. Another case that exists in all of these countries I have been talking about is the case when parliamentary elections occur, so before one parliament is dissolved, in this case our Croatian Parliament. Normally, in order for life to run normally, this parliament that will be disbanded must take place, so-called Parliament. the technical government that at this time may regulate certain matters which, in Parliament's jurisdiction, regulation with legal power. So let's finally make a deal. It also means our article 87, and we already have objections from the European Union because there are few countries within the European Union that have such a provision that the Government is given during the time of Parliament, meaning the Croatian Parliament in the meeting, to settle these issues. And we're coming up with that situation that your colleagues were talking about, which you wouldn't want to talk about, where cases happened, it's not the violation of the Constitution, it's the law. Because the law was, as counterpart Cain said, not against the constitution but against the law when the government on two occasions meant when it was not a regular break from the Croatian Parliament to adopt these regulations. So, because it's not said in the Constitution, it was contained in this law. That was against the law of the adoption of those two regulations. But unfortunately, we know how and how this Law and this authority set out in Article 87 has been applied so far. That means either there were these situations that Cain and his colleague Pavlic were talking about. The second situation that the Government has always tried to regulate all the unpleasant things that it has to regulate and that it has assessed that and will not have any public support and that it will be very difficult for the Parliament to adopt such a legal text. Then she thoughtfully and systematically waited for it to reach the regular break of the Croatian Parliament, whether it was winter or summer. And immediately thereafter, these issues, i.e. those laws, have been passed in the form of a regulation with legal force. And it is precisely in all of this and this part that exists within both legal circles and everything else, that we are essentially given the authority of the Government to regulate those issues, which are primarily in the part of the Croatian Parliament, by regulation with the legal power, slowly moving towards so-called. the office system, which is normal and against constitutional because it is known to be a parliamentary arrangement. Therefore, I think it would be wise for the government to withdraw this proposal. And also, if we speak legally and from the point of view of urgency you have a proposal, in this part of the proposal to pass the law by emergency procedure. It is said to be referred to in Article 159. The Rules of Procedure and says, "this law should be adopted by an urgent procedure to prevent the creation of a legal void." What legal void? What legal gaps when we're in session? There's no legal void. So it's an emergency procedure. There's no legal void. It is normal until 15 December in the meeting, and each Government should make sure that all that is to be brought and whether it is, according to that plan of harmonising our legislation with the acquis of the European Union, prepare and put it in the process of adoption. Not wait till it's 15 and then regulate some things. Therefore, let us be aware and responsible. Only if the elections are scheduled early, then I can, say it openly, so I'll say I support it, right? Otherwise, it's a normal thing if it's exactly what the Prime Minister said, and I have no doubt that the elections will be held within the regular period. So we're supposed to bring this in 2007 at this time. But only during that part of the break. Therefore, this will also be our obligation to be imposed on us by this part of harmonising legal gains and objections from the European Union's point of view. And therefore, there are no constitutional elements, nor any business elements, that we pass this law. So I suggest the government pulls it back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72465	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, distinguished representative Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72466	Mr. Vice President, Deputy Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Unlike colleagues from clubs that have been exposed so far, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the adoption of this law. It is quite true what Kovačević said that this power of law that we, through this institute, pass regulations with the legal force on to the government, is absolutely correct, should be used exclusively as an exception. And I think that when we look at these regulations that our government was making, we think that the government didn't use this institute too often, but in our view of things, it used it just when it was necessary. In view of the fact that the Parliament does not meet between 15 July and 15 September, since it does not meet from 15 December and until 15 January, this Law is the assumption and the basis that during that period the Government can adopt those regulations with legal force. Thus, such a law was passed every year and it is assumed that such regulations are being adopted in that single airspace. Now, are those regulations affected, are they unnecessary, there we have the other institute, and that is, we always get reports on the regulations that the government has adopted and then we can discuss them. So when we have a report, I really think we can discuss all these regulations that the government has made, which are here and numbered. We need to know that there are those other ones, those are regulations that have no legal power, but those are regulations that are sublegal acts which elaborate certain legal provisions that are not designed by law itself. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the adoption of this Law as a premise that the Government is given authority at certain times when the Parliament is not sitting, that it can adopt regulations. But of course we too stand for the view that it is used as an exception, as indeed one tool that the government uses only in exceptional situations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72467	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Honorable Representative Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72468	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. As the majority said today, and we in the HSS said there was a possibility that the legislative power of the Parliament could be transferred to the government for a certain period of time when the Parliament was sitting. However, there is always one particular fear that the government is given something that is nevertheless an exception and a blow from the principle of our formation of power. Because the Constitution is used in the dictation of "can," and in this way it should not or should not be manipulated, and in particular, it is the worst thing that is always the case that the Government has passed regulations by using the law authority a few days after the regular session of the Parliament, and we wonder if that is an accident. This is exactly what's happening these days with the amendments to the Food Act. The report on this Regulation is at this session and the question is whether the prolonging of the application of one article of the law due to the unpreparedness and non-preparation of implementing rules or unscheduled monitoring of the law by the restoring ministry can be brought into question by the current economic policy. Such a provision is fine, that there should be no legal gaps, but the issue of the executive authority should be asked, why it is not possible in time to prepare appropriate amendments and amendments to the law, so that these things are still regulated by the regulations on which the Croatian Parliament only receives reports, and I think we can all conclude together that the public is almost completely uninformed about it. We are entering the pre-election year, and right in that year the HSS Club requires one different government behaviour, to use this power only when the Constitution allows it, means when the Parliament does not sit. We would not approve but would like to sanction the unhappiness and those who, in time, do not instruct the bill or amend the law. That is why the HSS Club is proposing that we commit the Government to different behaviours in the regulations and propose that the regulation with the legal force that the Government adopts can only apply until the first session of the Parliament after that regulation is passed. And in the meantime, until the first session of the Parliament, the government must propose legislation or amendments to the laws that have been resolved by this regulation and, of course, allow this Parliament to discuss such an important activity where the Government is trying to act as a Parliament. They wouldn't want to be used restrictively, they wouldn't want the rules here that were stronger than the law. We tried to open this topic in the HSS here, too, in Parliament, but we failed until the end. We are opposed to the executive power taking over the silent role of the legislator. I point out once again, and I stress it is particularly dangerous for a pre-election year. The Water Contribution Regulation has already been mentioned here. How it has affected citizens and entrepreneurs is best told by the fact that this bad regulation has been in effect for several months. A lot of investors didn't want and couldn't wait to start an investment, but to get a building permit, in order to start the construction process, we had to pay a water contribution. There were individuals who paid more than 100,000 kuna. When the regulation changed and halved them the payment of the water contribution, they couldn't ask the government to return, of course, because they paid at a time when the regulation had a different legal weight. Here, you see what a legal vacuum means, which means an experiment by the government, which says we've passed the regulation and we'll test it for a few months. If we find that it burdens the citizens too much, it burdens the entrepreneurs too much, we will change it. So the government changed it, citizens and entrepreneurs were damaged. However, here in Parliament we have not been able to discuss this regulation because it is absolutely certain that such a regulation that actually prevents investment, which costs too much for those who build housing houses, which build production plants, would not accept it. The HSS Club does not want to accept this way of giving the government the opportunity to set specific questions by regulations for another reason that may not be random. In fact, we, which is very interesting, have proposed three amendments to the law here in Parliament. All these three amendments, i.e. the new laws, were responded by the government by a regulation. I'll remind you, we've proposed a law on the sale of business space to craftsmen and small businesses, the government has not accepted the debate, it's been negatively obvious about the law. The law did not experience another reading. The government has also proposed one representative to amend that law, which also resulted in an article within which the government is said to allow the sale of business space to craftsmen under the regulation. That was over two years ago. The regulation is still not public today, i.e. the Government has not published it and, of course, entrepreneurs cannot consume those benefits under the law. We also proposed here in the Assembly and the amendments to the Water Contribution Regulation where we wanted to lower those excessive payments for construction of residential buildings and plants immediately within a few days. The government did not accept that we were dealing with it by law, but adopted it as had already been said to the regulation several months after that. Now we have witnessed within this agenda precisely, today we have discussed road transport. A few months ago, the HSS Club proposed that a restrictive legal provision be taken off the road that we would like to remove from our old, unfortunately, rolling stock means trucks and buses, to turn it into a law and not commit them to the deadline, but to make the criteria of the law the technical correctness of the vehicle. The government has adopted a regulation on this. Now, we already have a second reading in Parliament, and after more than half a year we haven't solved it. Because of all of this, where we in the HSS assess that the Government is overusing its legal powers we will be against this proposal and I stress that in the pre-election year we are looking for different government behaviour and we are asking that the regulations that the Government adopts with the legal force can only be valid until the first session of the Parliament and then the Government would have an obligation to regulate this law by means of a regulation in the Parliament so that we can discuss it here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72469	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, a respected representative, Vice-President of Dom Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72470	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. This time, the SDP representative club will not be able to support the proposal for a law on the authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section. There are several important reasons for this for us to enter into the constitutional and legal sphere first of all, then the political sphere and, of course, to question the end and relations between the legislative and executive authorities. First, it could be said that everyone understands us not fair is either by the motionor or more precisely by the Government to state these reasons for the urgent procedure that is set out for the adoption of this law. Among other things, it is said that it would prevent the formation of a legal void and enable the Government of the Republic of Croatia to adopt provisions on the basis of legal authority in the future. None of the arguments stand. First, there is no legal void or constitutional obligation for the Croatian Parliament to exercise a delegation of legislative authority with itself to the government. According to the Constitution, the Croatian Parliament may, but does not have to transfer its powers to the Croatian government to the delegation, I repeat it can but does not have to. And if the Parliament decides not to pass a law transposing powers to the government, there is no legal void but only the legislator used his constitutional law. And that's why you can't talk about this reason at all as an emergency procedure. Secondly, if it is said, it is said that it would be possible in the future when it is necessary to bring it, if you see it cannot, under this applicable law or according to this which is even proposed, it could not be possible when it is necessary for the government to adopt regulations with legal force. She could only do so when they acquired the Constitution and legally prescribed conditions. And the legal condition is that the regulations can only be adopted in two cases, in the case of a period covered by the disbanding of the Parliament until the new elections, i.e. the constitution of the new Parliament, and that is the case when constitutional and legal deadlines for the session of the Parliament have taken place. Beyond that, the Government cannot or must not, or, under the legislative delegation, be empowered to adopt regulations with legal force. And what happened? The government of the Republic of Croatia unfortunately broke the law, broke the Constitution and passed regulations with legal force beyond these prescribed conditions. Among other things, as you know, counterpart Pecek, Kovačević has already mentioned the regulations relating to the water contribution, but they are also written even in the quote, because this water contribution was deliberately omitted, only not written, which was adopted by the Government, and among other things, the Regulation amending and supplementing the Law on Food, which was adopted, is a pardoned regulation supplementing the Law on the salaries of judges and other judicial officials, which was adopted on 18 January, it is known that each of them is a break from the session of the Assembly until 15 January. Therefore, we also have a confession that the law and regularity itself have been violated. And that's why these reasons for an emergency procedure don't stand at all, nor are they relevant. The second thing we need to pay particular attention to. It is unacceptable to implement the legislative delegation in an unconstitutional manner, and even less is allowed for the proposing representative to write it in the draft law and ignore even the Constitution itself. In the light of this provision of the law, it is as you know about the provision of Article 6 itself and calls for Article 83. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Article 89(3) The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. First, it should be said that if it is already referred to in Article 89(3), then it must be respected, and it states, I quote that paragraph 3: "The law shall enter into force at the earliest of the 8th day of its publication, unless, for particularly justified reasons, the law has been laid down differently." The law lays down that the law should enter into force on the day of its publication, and has not set out at all the reasons for the fact that it must enter into force on the day of its publication, not eight days from the date of its publication. Thus, in an unconstitutional way, we are proposed to pass the law itself. It doesn't make sense. And I present this debate on behalf of our club for the protection of Parliament's integrity, regardless of who is in power, we must respect Parliament's dignity and relations between parliamentary and executive authorities. Fifth or fourthly, the proposer himself states in his explanation, quotes: "The power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate in its legislative delegation certain questions from the part of the Croatian Parliament will cease under the said law on 30 September 2006, because that day expires when the Government of the Republic of Croatia is given the authority." True, but this does not mean that the Parliament does not ambush from 30 September 2006 until 15.12., but that, at any time, it can pass legislation with legislative authority and there is no reason for anything to come because the Parliament is sitting, and whether or not the law is in force, the government will not be able to use the legislative delegation because they have not met the requirements of the law. Unless, in advance, it implies that it will knowingly violate the law and violate what is prescribed for any government, because it is not competent under the Constitution for such matters, nor has it or anyone in the country that can knowingly violate the law. Furthermore, you see the legislative delegation is not only a possibility, but in the extreme line and exception. And among other things, to the Legislative Delegation, the Assembly should not only transfer its legislative powers to the executive power but at the same time by law and prescribe that the Executive Authority deliver that regulation to the first subsequent session, which will be passed by the legislative force at the approval of the Assembly. Why? It is precisely because it would actually return its legislative delegation, on the one hand, and on the other hand, to check whether the one to whom it has delegated the legislative delegation is carrying out the same in accordance with the Constitution and the law and the interests of the people. Because executive power enforces laws, but Parliament represents citizens of the Republic of Croatia and is the most legislative body. And that is why it cannot happen, as it happens here in Article 4 proposes to the general clause to extend the validity of all provisions by the end of the year, although the Constitution clearly states that these regulations with legal force last for a year. They can be extended because the Constitution also says if the Parliament decides otherwise, but does it make any sense to extend the deadline regulation with the legal force that has been illegally passed? And here I mentioned about water contributions and about the salaries of judges etc. I'm an under-soldier. So, what's this about? I am of the opinion that even a little bit should be modified even by the proposal mentioned by counterpart Pecek, who proposes that regulations with legal force should not only be subject to the first session of the Parliament but rather set a deadline for them. I think the law should make it very clear that the regulation ceases to apply unless the government submits it to the first session of the Parliament for confirmation. That should be prescribed. It is also necessary to install a special provision in the law that the regulations which have been passed contrary to this law are void and have produced zero effects since the beginning. If that were the case, then our citizens who paid huge money on the basis of a water contribution at a time when that regulation that was unlawfully passed would have the basis for justice to return to them what the state was actually taking away from them. Not like this. Because, as it were, so on and so forth. I would like to reiterate another important issue on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. These are not regulations that the Government makes to ensure the implementation of the laws adopted by the Parliament. These are regulations with a legal force where the Government can, apart from the law and the Constitution of excluded areas, regulate certain areas of social relations instead of Parliament. And it should not then happen to enter those areas that are directly or indirectly affected by human rights and freedoms such as the issue of wages, such as taxes, fees, etc. whether we wanted it or not, when the government went to try to solve it among other things and improve the position of judges by supplementing the Law on the salaries of judges and other judicial officials, do you know why the Parliament had no opportunity to do so? Why, at the same time, the Law on Budget Implementation a few months before that, in fact, under the pressure of the executive authority, for example, abolished that addition to the years of internships, etc. which is returned by regulation, it doesn't make sense. It doesn't make sense that we turn out to be the bad guys because we're not. But within the scope of this people, the citizens of this country and this country are trying to regulate social relations by law to be legal so that they can be properly regulated. Therefore, when a request with these requirements arises now, it is not possible to support this law without practically supplementing itself with several additional instruments, legal instruments of insurance to protect the integrity and authenticity of the Croatian Parliament's legislative authority because the government has shown and proved that it has violated the law, that it has not been accidentally and on several occasions and that it has not been necessary as it tries to justify it. Moreover, the amendments to that same regulation through amendments and amendments to the law have actually improved the need to return to the benefit of our citizens when it comes to, for example, a water contribution and there are additional political reasons in such a situation. Next year's election year. In the election year, give these powers to the Government and be aware that the Government, based on the ruling practice of that same Government in the application of the Law on the Powers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is regulating certain issues in breach of that law and that it has passed regulations when it was not allowed, at a time when it was not allowed, when the Assembly was sitting, it is actually a very problematic issue not only for the opposition but also for the position, because after the election, it is not really known who will be the position and opposition, especially in terms of how these regulations can assume material rights and obligations, but not direct because it is the opposite of the Constitution but indirect nature which can burden the state and the social community. For all these reasons, we from the SDP Club of Representatives about this Law on Regulations on the Powers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the part of the Croatian Parliament we will be abstentions. Otherwise, we have no objection to such a law, but provided this is the first reading, that these additional legal instruments of possible insurance and protection of the integrity and authenticity of the legislative authority are discussed. If this were to happen then we can discuss it differently, but as proposed by the urgent procedure and how all the reasons mentioned for the emergency procedure actually do not stand, that I do not repeat it then there is no point in trying to vote it and that we give our vote for it if some who must pass their conscience respect for the party's discipline have to vote for it to do so without us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72471	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72472	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! There is no need to repeat all of what almost all colleagues, apart from the representatives of the HDZ Club, have now said about this draft law on the powers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which has shown that it does not care about the Constitution or the law, and without any complex, it is clear, before such a proposal, that it has violated the law, that it has violated the Constitution and that it intends to continue, and that I do not see anything in this respect in such one behaviour. We here in the Parliament say what counterpart Arlovic said, saying on behalf of the SDP Club, indeed, regardless of the party's track, there can be no party discipline when it comes to the constitution or the law. If that's the case, and if that's an argument, then please and every citizen might say, and I belong to, say, HDZ, my club is so, to me, the Constitution or the law is not worth it, or this other option that votes something like that. Well, that's insanely one behavior in the Croatian Parliament. And this is such an unprecedented behavior. It seems to me this way with such a bill and with such examples never and no government has performed in the Croatian Parliament. And there were a lot of words about the way it was brought, so wrongly and wrongly, falsely invited the Government to the Law on Government of the Republic of Croatia's powers to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section because it was given a precise period of time when it can do so and it is not disputed that it has needs and that it should do so, it is a constitutional category, but according to this law that the Government and calls on it to do so during that time period, because it is perfectly clear from the list of regulations that the Government has provided, which it has adopted by explaining this legislative proposal at the time when they were adopted. And more importantly, there was nothing more important here than when colleagues spoke on behalf of the club. And the content of those regulations is even more controversial than the way it is. I'll just show you what this is about. Here you can see, with the Regulation amending and supplementing the Food Act. So it's not about any supplement, it's about what? And with up to one regulation and on its own, it is a sensitive issue for citizens in the Food Act to change the law. To that end, and so arrogantly and without taking into account those formal deadlines when this could possibly change and extend the deadline, the provision of Article 29, which was then amended by the Government in July this year by the Food Act and by that provision of Article 29 which speaks about food business control, starting with the level of primary production, and beyond. It's a big article that has a lot of items and which details food control and consumer protection, something that is a basic prerequisite and a prerequisite for this was remembered when we passed the law in 2003 P.Z.E. You're changing the European standard. So, it's a step Croatia's forward. So we're going backwards. Where are we going? In the past millennium, we'll be back in 1999. The deadline was set here when individual ministries, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture must adopt specific regulations and when these producers must adapt in this way, the hygienic way of dealing with food to protect consumers. The deadline was pretty big. Three years. And now the government is proposing to extend the deadline for the next 3 years to 2009. So how do you enter Europe with such a provision and with such actions? And something else, and worse. The deadline expired on 1.1.2006. You now have a legal void, this has automatically entered into force. How can you extend the deadline when the deadline expires on 1.1.2006. In all this absurdity there was some logic to do so before 1.1.2006. How can you extend the deadline since 2006 when it is now the 9th month of this year? So, not that there's no constitution, there's no law, there's no elemental logic, and that's, it always happens when you don't respect the Constitution and the law. So this is one serious thing and one of these dangerous regulations needs to be abolished. First of all, I say, you've broken several norms. But what's he saying? It says that our government is doing little and no work. Here, they should have made an effort to bring these provisions of the law back to life from 2003. The deadline was three years, nothing was done. Similarly, we have a code, a milder situation, indeed, in the case of the Law on Amendments to the Law on State Measurement of Catastrophe and Real Estates. This Law allowed precisely because of its adjustment a year for people who worked on the land measurement, so in geodesy, who were not graduate geodesy engineers, or geodesy engineers to have had a deadline, this transitional period in a year to pass the exams. And now the government suddenly extends that deadline to them out of the blue. I guess it's just so she can do a good job on this cataster and land books reform with that kind of frame. It's, I mean, inadmissible. And that's why it happens to us, you know what happens to us and where we spend money? Well, people, that's our common money, that's taxpayers' money where the huge loan we've raised at the World Bank for the Editing of Catastrophes and Landers is now spent on copying old and incorrect data. And then we brag about how we can get that information online right now. So why do we need information that's old and inadequate, where the last entry was made 50, 60, we have 100 years ago in Dalmatia. This information shall not be copied in electronic form as funds are spent. First, we need to adapt the real situation of the landowner and the catastra and then rewrite it in electronic form. It was a vision and it was the direction in which the reform went. What do you do now? The last two years, they've been copying old books. It's a waste of money and effort unnecessary. And you're extending the deadline here, these people who can't and can't do these things anymore. And further, this is a serious situation, this has never happened even though we had laws which, therefore, delayed the application, or the possibility of paying off 0.5% each year of the internship. It's something common knowledge. Judges have always been disputable and you've made it possible for them. And every honor, that was one big step, yet step forward, at the beginning of the term of office, in 2004. And now, all the bells have been praised, and we've welcomed that. We've been upping some wages you've given them that 0.5. And now, covertly, by regulation, you take it down for them. But the danger is only that, not before everything that is not correct, and secondly, that can only be done by law. Because as far as judges and judicial incomes are concerned, we and the Montreal Convention on their rights, where, eventually, only by law, can reduce the salaries of judges and their supplements on their salary, but then we are in a situation if the country's situation is so alarmingly difficult to see, and they have to contribute to the situation. It's probably your move to testify to that, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72473	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72474	Although it is difficult to correct my colleague, Anticevic, I must say the incorrect assumption is that the government is in violation of the constitutional law. It's not true, my colleague. If you really think this is happening, you have all the mechanisms to fix this situation. But this isn't about breaking the Constitution or breaking the law. So here it is called to the Constitution and to the law and that's what this is about. As for the incorrect assumption that this government is doing little and little, you can probably say that in the election campaign you started, but that's also not true and it's not a fact. This government is very well working and very much working, which is seen daily from rapid convergence and from concrete indicators, you want statistics, you want to increase competitiveness. If you want a better standard, if you want economic growth and everything else. So these are all the results of this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72475	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72476	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Well, here's a chance for me, now that my colleague Anticevic has mentioned one regulation that would not apply for the next three years, she has openly objected to what's happening. We are participants in the agricultural situation, all of us together, and our imports are booming. By applying the law, consistent with the application of the Food Law, the Food Quality Regulations and the preparation of all our institutions, our country would finally cease to come... However, since it sprays the current authorities or those involved in this, with the commercial lobby literally tailors agricultural policy, it is possible to continue under Bofla's cloak to control food regularity, health regularity and everything expensive, importing everything and anything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, it is a total destruction of Croatian agriculture and agony that should have been put to an end, unfortunately it would have extended consistently. This is a serious warning to the government and the way it works because it's under the cover of an extension, just spraying to keep the thief going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72477	Thank you. Would the proposaler's representative like to take the final word? Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72478	The final proposal of the Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the part-line of the Croatian Parliament. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 65 votes for, 3 abstentions and 13 against the final proposal of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72479	We move to the next item of the agenda, - Proposal for a Law on Leasing, with the Final Bill, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 539. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply, Article 164. Rules of Procedure, 144 to 150. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? State Secretary, Mr. Zigman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72480	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, here is the Ministry of Finance, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, has referred to the parliamentary procedure of the proposal for a Law on Leasing. I would like to start by actually giving some information about the activities of Leasing in Croatia. It is important to say that in Croatia, there are currently about 50 companies operating in the Leasing business of which only 20 of them bear in the name of leasing. So leasing as such regardless of the figure is not so large, but their share in the financial system of the Republic of Croatia is currently about 24 billion kuna. Currently, with investment funds and other non-bank financial institutions, it is one of the most pro-pulsory and fastest growing parts of the financial market. What should be pointed out is that leases in a company are mainly owned and controlled by foreign banking groups and since leased companies exist in accordance with the regulations on commercial societies, so they are subject to the Commercial Companies Act and, of course, tax regulations, they are actually contracted under the Mandatory Relations Act in the part which determines the lease contract and the lease contract and are not obliged to provide any specific financial statements other than those of the statistical norms they give to the financial agency. What I said was currently active at the end of last year was 20 billion kuna, currently it's probably already around 24. Namely, their growth is more than 15% a year, so it's one of the branches that has extremely rapid growth. What is also important to point out, therefore, that about 30% of this portfolio, which is about 5 billion kuna, is loans and loans that are not in the area of leasing business, and since there is no special law that regulates them, here the Government has now proposed to the distinguished House of Law, and it is only business in the domain of business banks, or the Law on Banks, and thus, of course, tries to avoid all the expensive that the independent monetary authority, so the Croatian National Bank is trying to implement in terms of slowing down the growth of external debt, slowing down therefore, and reducing the possibility of financial instability, of course, is using this instrument. What also exists is that most of these loans from these Leasing companies are located in only one Leasing company. With the draft Law on Leasing, we therefore propose to regulate the activity of Leasing in such a way as to establish the conditions for establishment, so that minimum capital adequacy is prescribed which is necessary to establish Leasing, Leasing operations during its work and working life and, of course, to cease the work of Leasing society. The content and provisions of the Leasing Agreement, therefore, that any contract that is concluded for Leasing has its own legally prescribed content, rights and obligations of the parties to the Leasing business, the financial aspect of the Leasing Society, risk management, therefore risk management, which is very important, because when it comes to the financial sector which makes up 6% of the financial market of the Republic of Croatia, therefore, it is very important to manage the risks that are necessary in the end to avoid any financial earthquake, financial reporting and, of course, nothing less important, and in the end and most important, supervision of the operation of the Leasing Society. The provisions of the draft Law on Leasing enable the supervisory authority, I would like to remind you that since 1.1 this year, the Croatian Financial Institutions Supervisory Agency has been working on the work of the Croatian Financial Institution, so not banking financial institutions, which includes Leasing, which, of course, has, in its work round, in its description of the business and in the law governing its work, therefore, the supervision of Leasing. Therefore, the draft of this bill allows the HANFI supervisory body to take the measures necessary to limit the growth of Leasing activities and, of course, in that part of foreign borrowing, as well as the natural model for linear consolidation at bank level within the same banking group. Because we must not forget, therefore, that the Croatian National Bank has been trying to slow down the growth of external debt by a number of measures, but of course the banks have always found the channels in a certain way, and one of the channels was also leasing operations especially during 2002 and 2003. Leasing business is a legal business based on the basic idea of use, not owned by a specific facility, or material goods, and, of course, according to this and through this proposal, the Leasing Act prohibits companies from granting loans and loans. In the light of the financial relationship and the accounting aspect and the possibilities and acquisition of the ownership of the recipient of the Leasing, the execution of the Leasing Treaty itself is naturally shared in financial and operational Leasing activities. According to this draft bill of law, Leasing operations in the Republic of Croatia can be carried out by Leasing companies based in the Republic of Croatia that have received from the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, namely HANFI as a supervisory body for the pursuit of Leasing activities, approval for the conduct of Leasing operations. So similar to that thing that happens with banks, so for the establishment of a bank, let's say roof financial institutions and the most widespread financial institutions in Croatia, so work permit. The Leasing Society branch of a foreign company, therefore the Leasing Services provider based outside the Republic of Croatia should also receive prior consent from the HANFI as is the case with banks at the Croatian National Bank. Extraordinary tasks of financial leasing could also be carried out by banks themselves as they can today and so on, but, of course, according to this draft Law on Leasing and, of course, the Law on Banks. Leasing companies under this law will be specialised companies for the conduct of exclusively Leasing operations and transactions that are directly or indirectly related to Leasing transactions such as lease, sales intervention, i.e. the sale of items belonging to a Leasing company based on the conduct of Leasing operations, and what is very important in this law, therefore, it is forbidden to give them loans and loans because only banks can do so under the Law on Banks. Supervisory of the operation of leasing companies and branches of foreign Leasing companies... on the basis of what I have already said to the Law on the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, the Croatian agency HANFA, and the supervision of Leasing operations that would be carried out in business banks would therefore continue to be carried out by the Croatian National Bank. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The draft law laying down rules for mutual cooperation, exchange of information and notification of supervisory authorities. So what is very important, therefore, is that the supervisory authority in this case HANFA has the opportunity to request reports and to have control over the work of leasing companies. The activities of Leasing in a Leasing Society shall be conducted and carried out by the management of a company consisting of at least two members who, following certain academic and professional qualifications which have not been arranged so far, must have prior approval of HANFA as a member of the Management Board. So this Law will make it impossible for someone who does not have adequate education to manage billions of kuna assets that can, of course, bring and create risks in the financial system of the Republic of Croatia. According to the proposed text of the Leasing Society Act, however, it is not allowed to approve the laws or grant loans to Leasing recipients today. This Law also establishes the obligation to keep registers of Leasing facilities with the Croatian Financial Institutions Supervisory Agency. The register of Leasing facilities will be the first public register to contain the data determined by the Leasing facility and the time and duration of the Leasing Contract. For the purpose of consumer protection, the Law states that the provider is obliged to establish a procedure outside the judicial settlement of disputes between the lender and the recipient of the lease in order to allow for faster resolution of potential disputes between the parties in the Leasing operations. The legal persons who do so on the date of entry into force of this Act are therefore currently around 50 according to the data available from the register and are, of course, entered into the register of court, established a period of 6 months from the date of entry into force of this Act in which they are obliged to comply their business with the provisions of this Act. Finally, I would point out that while there are laws or laws on banks, while there is an Insurance Act, the Law on Investment Funds for Leasing despite the fact that after banks it represents the first largest segment of the financial market. So 6% of the financial market, 24 billion kunas of property, so far there was no such thing as this proposal, or until this respected House passed a special law that would regulate that activity. Therefore, given the market size mentioned in advance, there was a need for a special law to be drawn up to regulate the rules of business on the financial market and, therefore, the Government sent a proposal for this Act to the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72481	Thank you. Committees, financial budgets, legislation? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. SDP MP club, Vice-President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72482	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, it is good that an emergency procedure has been removed from this bill. And it's good that he goes in two readings for a simple reason because it's a fairly large matter and a specific matter that needs to be regulated by legislation. We agree that it should be regulated because simply the Law on Mandatory Relations is not regulated, but it should be recalled that when the Law on Mandatory Relations was adopted, the opposition proposed that this issue should also be settled. However, allow a few immediate comments. First, it seems to us that the Leasing Law should take care of whether this Law should bear the title of the Leasing Act or should bear the name of the Leasing Society and Leasing Act. The majority of the matter refers to leasing societies from their establishment, way of doing business to issues of mutual relations between them and the agencies and so on. It is only in parallel that the question of leasing itself as a legal work to be carried out between 3 companies or recipients of services is actually regulated. Another thing we would like to note is that it seems to us compared to Article 49. The Constitution which speaks of market freedom and entrepreneurial freedom not only as a basis for economic action but also full equality that some of the solutions offered in the Law should nevertheless be reconsidered. What exactly is this about? The point is that when it comes to Member States, which is referred to as a member of the European Union and a foreign country, then it seems to us that the branches of companies that will deal with leasing are not equal. It seems that at least that's how it says in Article 33 of the Foreign Leasing Society. A Member State which is not a member of the European Union when establishing a branch must also seek the consent of the Agency, but nothing is said about the Member State. This would actually be constitutional inequality and legal inequality and in this respect not only would it be illegal from this aspect but also from the aspect of establishing... opening up the possibility of a monopoly position. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we want to draw attention to that question, to draw attention to this question that by the second reading, perhaps once again, this issue is debated. Secondly, the third thing we would like to draw attention to is what is the case with companies registered in Member States or foreign Member States, foreign countries that do not have a branch, which operate directly. They don't seem to have to get our agency's consent, but they have to get it, they have to file a report. We should also see this issue settled because we must ensure that our companies registered with us must have an equal position on that side of society. Now that we've mentioned these societies, then we need to open up a very interesting question. The Leasing Society says Article 3 is a legal person based in the Republic of Croatia who received from the Agency a business authorisation. When does leasing society become a legal person? It comes from a legal person when registered in a commercial court. Whether registration in a commercial court is subject to this consent or may only require it as a legal person when it is registered. But if it is registered in a Commercial Court, then the court has checked that it fulfils the conditions for the law of a prescribed activity called leasing. In this respect, this question should be enlightened. I think that there should be some previous agreement between the Agency on the founding act which is, and the Statute which is a prerequisite or which are necessary acts for the establishment and registration of a company before a commercial court. Of course, here it is said that the company can also be established as a limited liability company... the amount of the underlying capital is also prescribed to be at least 1 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But there is one more thing to say in this work. The parties to the Leasing business are the recipients of leasing, supplier and object Leasing. The question arises how can the object of leasing be a subject and a party to this relationship? You know. Obviously, there's something wrong, so that part will need to be reconsidered. These parties, however, are the ones who deliver, the one who receives into the Leasing, but the very thing is not foreign, but the object of the Leasing as it is written in the law, but then it is necessary to resolve in fact what are obligations and responsibilities, of course rights and duties, if you want me to say otherwise, the giver or recipient of the Leasing in relation to the Leasing object. Of course, this is usually where ownership rights are acquired on the object or object. The question arises whether, in exceptional cases, and in specific cases, some other real legal authority can be obtained and not just the right to ownership? So, without the right of ownership, as the right to use or the right to dispose. The more the team says in Article 5, the more it speaks of obtaining the right to use that object, and the obligation is to pay the use of compensation. So he hasn't acquired property yet. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. Of course, it says here that in Article 6 Leasing operations can be carried out by the Leasing Society referred to in Article 3 of this Act, for... the company referred to in Article 31 and the branches of a foreign lease company referred to in Article 32; [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's that inequality. So, our company if it's registered has been granted approval. A company from a Member State of the European Union may, directly or without the establishment of a branch, if it so wishes, establish a branch but shall not be required to obtain authorisation under Article 32 of the foreign company, so outside of the Member States of the European Union, if it has received prior authorisation and is established with us. It's a legal inequality. I know that the promoter has had problems in view of the negotiations with the European Union, which is required to have equal status of their companies with ours. It's all right, but then there's got to be that stranger with us only then has to ask the question of the legal part. Furthermore, Article 7 states that the law applies to these companies, or to those companies, to the provisions of the Company Act, unless otherwise specified by this law. First, this is a transitional and final provision should be rather than in general provisions, and the second should be the other. This Leasing Society Act is subject to this law and, exceptionally, if this law does not regulate a particular question, the Company Act applies, as most things are settled by this law. Therefore, that part should be talked about, should have a general clause on lex specialis rather than vice versa. It is, of course, said among other things that the Leasing Society in Article 8 may only be engaged in the activities of the Leasing Society referred to in Article 5 and, in exceptional terms, in paragraphs 2 and 3 shall be placed exceptionally, and even this prohibition in paragraph 4 shall not be subject to the credit or to the granting of loans. In fact, the third form of leasing that has come to us wants to do so and leave, and that is exclusively the business of banks and financial organisations. We have nothing against this issue but then it is not true to speak only but, as a rule, he deals with the processing of the transactions referred to in Article 5 and, exceptionally, in accordance with paragraph 2 of this same Article 8 he can deal with these issues which are related directly or indirectly to the business of leasing these transactions, these transactions have a lot to do. Now attention should be paid, in particular, to Article 9. The law on Leasing societies where it is said that the underlying capital must be fully paid in cash when entering the establishment or enrollment of an increased core capital of a leasing company in a court register. However, in the event of the division of the leasing society, a whole new situation is now emerging. The provision of paragraph 2 of this Article does not apply, so it is possible to divide practically one limited liability company or another Leasing company with unlimited liability from 7 million kuna into four, five persons and, in practice, to significantly reduce that underlying capital or not to fulfil that fundamental function and the intention of the legislator and the applicant... I draw your attention to this issue and in this segment should probably point out, however, that this division could not reduce the underlying capital necessary for the establishment of a company. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why? To protect the interests of the recipient of leasing. Of course, it is quite interesting that the shares of the company must only read on behalf and may be in relation to the privileged shares and at the same time can only be up to a maximum of 25% of the total shares. However, here should put that famous 25 % plus 1 supplement in order to ensure that it actually participates in changing core and increasing and reducing core capital. Now you see. In Article 11 for the acquisition of a business share or a share of a Leasing company on the basis of which a person acquires a qualifying share directly or indirectly, approval for the acquisition of a qualifying share shall be previously required by the Agency. Now it's very interesting that we have a different solution. Therefore, registration or authorisation for work is required immediately, and here is the need for prior authorisation. Why not even it up, and also before the registration of a company, it is necessary to obtain prior authorisation for the activity in accordance with this law. Therefore, the solution exists in the law itself only needs to be solved. This voice question, about voting rights, etc. This could still be further elaborated. Now, permission to do the work of leasing. Look, the authorisation to carry out the Agency’s tasks and the request to issue now says a number of, founding act, business plan, list of founders of the Leasing Society which are listed or... the total nominal amount of shares for founders, etc., and what about the statute of society? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What about the statutes of society, which actually regulates certain relations with votes and all other calls of decision-making bodies, manage etc. Therefore, that act should also ensure that there are certain solutions. Of course, here the doing of teaching in a Member State is quite interesting. For example, it is necessary to inform the Agency and to indicate to the Member State in which it intends to start carrying out the leasing operations in the Member State. And, of course, after that, we should seek agreement, etc. Now, the question is, and what if that same society is starting another society in a Member State, is it also necessary to inform? He doesn't have to. Is that okay? You got it. So, actually, why administration where there's no need for administration. Here we need to open up a debate on something else, whether the Leasing Society established by another Leasing Society can pour the mother's capital into that society and to prevent in fact the manipulation and indignity of or the act of the believers in such a part. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It's not true at all. It will do so on the basis of the rules of the Member State, not the decisions of our agency. The countries of Germany, that's where they establish it. If he got all the approvals there, he'll start working and there's nothing we can do to stop it. So we have to have some previous opinions and controls if it's working, now it's actually a question of whether there are related societies. They did. That's what needs to be solved. Of course, there is a rather interesting question of Article 31, and Article 33 relating to the fact that the parties to the Leasing company established by the branch must have consent, and that, in fact, the Member States of the State do not have to, agencies, etc., it is clear that such issues must be resolved in particular, is similar to Article 34, and then Article 35 related to paragraph 2 where the contract can also contain other provisions governing the risks of which the Leasing facility must provide a way of insurance, time, place and method of taking possession of the facilities, etc. The only thing that should be added is the part that is related to banking and financial operations, the instrument for ensuring the payment of the facility that has been taken over and that part can, if we are already talking about what it can contain, even though I am for the contract to prescribe what in force of the law, must contain, and what we can leave at will to the parties let these issues be settled. And now that the weather is leaky, allow just one more nomotechnical remark before I conclude on behalf of our club. It is therefore entirely inappropriate for certain articles to be written to cover more than one material page. Simply those who will have to apply, and believe me, it will not always be lawyers, but financials, etc. They will find it very difficult to cope, and they will find it difficult in that part to do so properly. That is why it would be good for some of these provisions to actually be reviewed, nomotechnically additional offices and set up in a way that is more acceptable and understandable. Likewise, when it comes to these transitional provisions, including these 6 months, which the proposing representatives of these 50 companies say should be able to comply with this law and comply with this law, and 20 companies write in the explanation, the question can be asked why not for a year. Why shouldn't it be a year, because it's not really a matter of lying, they have to coordinate their entire internal structure and internal legal order with this law and it's not a small deal and it's going to take a lot of work to get that part of the purchase, and in addition, some of the jobs with regard to the timeline will not only depend on them, but also on the consent they will have to obtain among other things from the agency. Thank you very much. We will support this law in our first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72483	Thank you. The HDZ Representatives' Club, Honorable Representative Vlado Jelkovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72484	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club will also support the Leasing Law proposal. The HDZ representative club also proposed and supports the fact that this law goes into two readings. It is an area that really needs nomotechnical regulation because for now we have a situation that we do not feel well. The total assets of the Croatian financial sector reached 320 billion kuna in late 2005. The property of the so-called so-called property. the banking sector, including housing savings and savings cooperatives, amounts to around 260 billion kuna, while the assets of the non-banking sector, including Leasing societies, are about 60 billion kuna. In the structure of the assets of the non-bank sector, leasing companies with assets of more than 20 billion kunas dominate. With this kind of property, leasing's activity became second-largest right behind the banks. Leasing is traditionally divided into operational and financial leasing, and the essence of one and other species is the fact that the user of the object or object is not at the same time its owner. In Croatia, however, Croatia has developed a third type of leasing, i.e. pure lending of users of the object Leasing which makes it the owner of the case. Such a type of leasing has developed after the Croatian National Bank imposed various monetary instruments and, in particular, imposed different restrictions on foreign sources of funds on reserve. In the inability to further expand business and increase employment in Croatia through banks, foreign owners began to place funds as loans through leasing companies. Thus, the total assets in 2005 increased by around 3.4 billion kuna or around 460 million euros. Around 20 active Leasing companies portfolios, i.e. the unpaid value of the principal placement is about EUR 2.2 billion, with almost equal representation of operational and financial lying with 35 % in the portfolio structure, while so-called credit balances represented by 30 % or about 650 million euro. This fact about the share of credit in the total assets makes this activity parabankable. In view of the above, since it is really necessary to regulate this area as soon as possible, taking into account the size of the leasing market, the need for a specific law to regulate the rules of business on this market has emerged. As a result, the Croatian Democratic Community's Club will also support the proposal for a law on lying with the fact that we are really proposing that the second reading of this law come as soon as possible so that we have the final law on the table.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72485	Thank you. HSS's club, Honorable Representative Zeljko Pecek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72486	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. I will say a slightly unusual attitude of the HSS Club in this bill, because we are not happy at all that an emergency procedure has been removed from this bill even though we are aware that it is an imperfect proposal that would even be difficult to fix the amendments, but it is absolutely certain that we could in this way change it in quality and bring it in a short time. Even more so, compared to the previous point when we discussed the government's ability to pass regulations with legal force, what happened in Croatia was the reason that the government reacts precisely in this way to adopt a regulation to prevent the generation of one bad growth in the sector. Obviously, there is a problem here that a government official admitted that some lying houses or rather one house uses legal tricks to place a loan under the form of leasing. The credit rating has scary amounts, it is somewhere in the amount of 650m euros. The problem is that we all know about it, what we've seen, but no one has responded. We are asking that the Croatian National Bank is only dealing with the growing problem of external debt growth and lately and internally, and we are not giving it a tool to prevent this task. We know that the external debt at the end of June was 27.3 billion euros, I will not talk about domestic debt or debt. That's enough warning so we can think about Argentine syndrome. However, this problem is generated by leasing houses and the state is slow to react to this problem even if it has long been seen, whether because the activities of the Leasing House are well-charged by the state register because it is mainly about selling cars through loans, so we have high customs duties and VAT and 11% more tax revenues in this year, and we have equally sold cars more than in the last year and I am absolutely sure that we have sold much more through leasing. The complexion where we say the growth of external debt continues but it is slowed could be precisely this way and change to respond in time to those who generate it and use legal tricks. It is particularly worrying that in this way the debt of citizens is also growing, so we all know that they are largely consummating this loan under the form of lying in the purchase of cars, small entrepreneurs in the purchase of equipment, and we must not even think about what would happen to this group of citizens who generally have modest incomes, who agree to the easing conditions in the form of loans because no other credit can and cannot be obtained. So it could be and it is, it's already quite a bankruptcy of the home budget because we pretend not to see what's going on. Obviously, we also see from the report that these Leasing houses have an extremely large asset growth, they also generate high profits or profits because of course they have good interest and at the same time they charge fees and they have made sure that this Leasing loan can be returned three times. That is why we regret that we have not seen the regulation between the two sessions of the Parliament. We regret that an emergency procedure has been removed from this process, but we also suggest that the second reading be already in the first session of the Parliament behind this today because I will remind you that the Croatian National Bank has long demanded that all economic policy holders act in harmony. The government's obligation is that, just as one of the major economic policy holders reacts in time and timely response would be to address this problem called a Leasing loan. For this reason, I would like to ask the Proposer to propose the Leasing Act at the first next session of the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72487	Thank you. Dear representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72488	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs! In order to understand the importance of the adoption of this law, it is necessary to start financial data from the activities of the Leasing in Croatia, and according to the latest known data, the total assets of the Croatian financial sector are more than 50% higher than gross domestic product. Within that sector, the non-banking sector, which also includes leasing companies with assets of nearly 24 billion kuna, is the second largest industry behind banks and we know that banks have assets of nearly 300 billion kuna. The assets of insurance companies are about 17.9 billion, pension funds of 15 billion, investment funds close to 15 billion kuna. It is also necessary to say that since 2002, the gross domestic product has been greater than the total financial sector, which means that this financial sector is developing very quickly and that this industry has grown at an annual rate greater than 10% and the contribution of the industry to the owners has grown at a rate of 15 to 20% and that is why it is important to regulate this activity through a serious and well-established legislative regulation. This is also necessary because there are laws that regulate the activities of banks, insurance companies and investment funds and there is no specific law for the activity of leasing. Leasing is, as we have heard, divided into operational and financial leasing and the essence of one and other types of leasing is in the fact that the user of objects or objects is not its owner. However, in Croatia, the so-called the third type of leasing, i.e. the clean lending of the users of the object leasing, making it the owner of the object which makes this activity a parabanking activity. In the portfolio structure, leasing companies are represented with almost 30%. I note, by the way, that the Croatian National Bank Supervisory Financial Institution has already brought several times in order to reduce the foreign borrowing of measures for banks, which are precisely due to the behaviour of leasing industry and the lack of supervision. It is precisely because this significant financial sector would be put under control and legally regulated by the frameworks and operating conditions of Leasing society that need to be adopted as urgently as possible by the Leasing Act. The proposal for a Leasing Act that we are discussing today is primarily aimed at regulating legally the terms and conditions of business, supervision and control of business, measures to prevent and eliminate illegality and irregularities in business, and very strict sanctions for non-compliance and non-compliance with the prescribed legal provisions. Normally, in this presentation, I will not explain all 110 articles of the proposed law, but I will point out only a few which, in my opinion, should be underlined and repeated. As I already mentioned, in the last year, as many as 30% of their activities were used for lending, thus avoiding monetary policy measures or avoiding restrictions on foreign sources of funds prescribed by the Croatian National Bank. The new law explicitly prohibits the approval of loans and loans. The law also provides for a minimum capital amount of 1 million kuna, a certain possibility of identifying the owner of a stock company or shares must read on behalf and be fully paid in cash. The Croatian Financial Investment Supervisory Agency has been given the power to exercise supervision over the business of leasing companies. The Agency's powers range from granting work approval, appointing members of the administration, conducting audits, ways, calculating real interest and fees, to withdrawing work, opening up bankruptcy and liquidation. The law provides for the form, content and specificity of the contract, Articles 35 to 37, depending on whether the contract is financial or operational, as well as the terms and conditions for the termination of the contract. It is also prescribed to keep regular accounts, respect for accounting financial standards and principles and the application of the Accounting Act. The Agency was empowered to prescribe a continuum plan, content, manner and time limits of financial reporting in order to compare data on the business of leasing companies. In order to ensure the effectiveness of surveillance and to increase transparency, the measures available to the Agency, the deadlines for implementing the measures and the evidence that the measures have been implemented are laid down. Finally, as well as any good law, penalties are prescribed for those who comply with the law or who do not fully or at the time of the prescribed provisions. As the penalties are rigorous and high, I believe the law will give the expected effect. At the end of all of this, I believe that the second reading and adoption of the law should be done as soon as possible because our goal is to make a sound balance payment. If we adopt this Act, we will have a way to control economic growth and supervision of the overall financial industry, and the economy will not be the hostage of that financial industry. By the way, I note that this leasing industry shows signs of instability because, according to my knowledge of the foreign supervisory service, they are seeking our cooperation, and there is no basic tool, or regulatory control that stems from this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72489	Thank you. Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72490	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the honourable representatives of the government, the promoter. So I was asked one basic question. How is it that after 15 years of its independence and after such great results of the financial sector 15 years after all, Croatia brings the Law on Leasing? And now the government is reading us information that in the banking sector there are 3 hundreds and 20 billion kunas. And in the financial sector, 260 billion kuna. Where did these kunas come from? And why the Leasing Act now? My colleagues and colleagues, a Croatian citizen is drained and overindebted. And it's hard to get more credit in banks. No matter what we say because you're looking for loan insurance in 10 ways. To whom is it used, and who will benefit from the editing that should naturally be done by the Leasing Law? Those who are powerful and who already have products that will spread through leasing. Will the Croatian industry place cars on Leasing? Cars. Will the combination, will the contractors, will the construction machines? He won't, he won't. So, of course, this law needs to be passed, but the question is, why is it waiting so long and who does it answer to being so liberal? Whose hands are the bank in Croatia? Who owns the banks? And besides, the foreign bank, or its representation, has an automatic, almost automatic right to engage in leasing. Welcome to Croatia, enjoy, you will have a secure business, and the citizens will take because they must, because they are forced. You will have insurance in the case of leasing, not in the object, but in the case of leasing and some other facilities that will give you as insurance. And the most significant is the provision of an article 8 that promotes and is undetected. Article 3 "except so-called. or a truly operational and financial lease, exclusively from these transactions, may also be engaged in the sale of goods belonging to a leasing company on the basis of the giving of transactions on a lease." So let's close it up like a folk peach, but then let's open it up for an article. That's the meaning of this law. Secondly, who can control such a complex law? Hanfa? Okay, if he can, but that means we got out of the bank responsibility for 200 or as much as you said in your explanation, 260 billion kuna. From the Croatian People's Bank of Transport through Leasing we pulled out. Then what is the responsibility of the Croatian National Bank? If there is no compliance yet, the fiscal, or financial sector, HANFA and the Croatian National Bank, please, you can put even stronger in charge of Croatian citizens, squeeze them out and eventually buy them, either their property in various ways or theirs, so to speak, dependence on the items that you will introduce, gentlemen who are engaged in leasing. What do you do now? Of course, the law needs to be passed, but it should be controlled or at least allowed to be done by some business which or the placement of goods that will be achieved through this way binds the production to be in Croatia or some part of the production. I thought at first to discuss it, since it is about first reading, and about certain provisions of certain articles, which, for example, my colleague Arlovic already mentioned in the performance on behalf of the SDP Club. For example, the contradiction of the provision of Article 3 which states that in the first paragraph, the teaching society is a legal person established in the Republic of Croatia who received the approval of the Agency to carry out the operations. And to become a legal person, of course, it has to be registered, it has to acquire that legal personality. And you can't sign it unless you get that consent. So we made a tie round, who's the authority here to give, that he's a legal person or that he's not a legal person. Is the condition that the Agency, before the company fulfils, or the founding society in the establishment, that it fulfils the conditions in order to be able to submit to the Register Court the documents that are necessary or will do so first, and then there is no need for the Court to be given, it is neither relevant nor relevant. However, it is said in Article 8 that there are two types of leasing and in paragraph 3 or no matter which, it is said that according to one Leasing job, the recipient of Leasing becomes the owner after completing the legal work. In the second paragraph, in the second paragraph, I think item 4, it's just that the recipient of the leasing cannot become the owner of the object of leasing. There's no telling what he gets when he gets into the legal work of leasing. What's he getting? He gets the right to use with some kind of compensation or insurance right, etc. and unfortunately, this is being discussed in the articles on rights and responsibilities, I mean Article 35, if I am stating it right now. The Leasing Giver only in the delay of two wars, so to speak, has the right to collect damages from failed work, return the object of leasing, so he secured himself maximum. What's the recipient's insurance? Nothing. Even here, it's said that the object bearer is not responsible for the case. He says he's not responsible for the case. At least call on the Consumer Protection Act, which really speaks in a certain way about consumer protection because it will ultimately be a consumer of the object of leasing, will buy it. Here I have tried in a way that has caused me to propose a law on leasing which is really necessary, but it is too liberal, it is the protection of the already powerful financial industry in the Republic of Croatia and not of the Croatian economy and of the Croatian... If that's what we wanted, then this country is in the role of protecting large capital, not its citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72491	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72492	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. There is no doubt that this matter should have been resolved long ago, that we expected it to happen in the amendments and additions to the Law on Mandatory Relations that has long been prepared, but here is the intentional separation of this matter about leasing, I guess with the intention that the Government is here now and has shown that it wants a special law to solve this problem. There is no doubt that the jobs that are being concluded in Croatia are numerous, that there are 25,000 lease agreements in value, an enormous value of approximately 700m euros, which is over 60% of last year's total work. So the number of these lease contracts concluded during the first six months increased by as much as 40% compared to last year. It also speaks of one deception and personal responsibility. More than 20 practically today are working to leasing companies or 50 other companies that are dealing with precisely leasing or classic asset rentals and operational and financial affairs so that it can be said that in Croatia as statisticalists have calculated it, every fifth kuna in Croatia comes from leasing. Every year, a billion euros is paid through leasing, and most of all, the largest amount goes right to the purchase of personal cars, 36% for private vehicles, just one quarter for real estate. And in all over the world, in one Europe, in America young families are exactly everything, are their property, property, house, furniture inside all buying with leasing. We don't seem to have any problems here, it's primarily an offer from these companies, and now from the agencies, so where they're most likely to sell a private vehicle either on loan or here we are now discussing Leasing. The very tempting conditions so that, even then those ads, and we as a nation are psychological in this regard, are not resistant to these challenges, and so these ads affecting man to be recalculated and many are precisely because they have been recalculated, because they have been lured that almost led to destruction or are left without the funds invested. Of course, those cases where they are, exactly by region, by area, because there's been some kind of major economic breakdown, meaning the number of bankruptcys, the collapse of businesses. It is seen exactly how much the applicants had to do, as well as the banks to collect, that is, to come into the possession of the vehicle, and there was a lot of crime, because these banks or these companies that deal with leasing wanted to immediately enter the property, that is to say, to come into the possession of that vehicle, because the owners were reselling them. So there was everything and everything. And just so this doesn't happen what fellow Leko is talking about, because no one in the Republic of Croatia can come as easily to their claims as can financial monetary institutions, banks, and now certainly this, and companies, companies, companies, whether a shareholder or one with limited responsibility, but through leasing. And for that to be the case, some additional effort should be made to make the final proposal, regardless of the fact that the right must be respected and respected, of course, and that none of these obligations can be esculpated, but that same citizen when he has claims against that same bank or society, then I must use this term by means of courts and executive proceedings. But the state is always benevolent to financial powers, institutions that specifically required their rights and in order through fiduciaries. That's inadmissible. For God's sake, here's the fiduciary permission for everyone, but who in practice can be used for what rather than the banks? So they don't even have to go to the executive procedure? They don't even care how the executive procedure works? Is it fast, is it slow? Is it a lawsuit? Because they're maximum-security. And so, they have practically become masters of economic progress and also of the management of our lives. This is a serious and mature state that must primarily take care of a citizen, cannot and must not allow its citizen. I say, regardless, and no one advocates or advocates that they are not fulfilled by law, but as this Law sets the stage for these societies to come to a far more favourable position as believers as it was given to an ordinary average man. And there are also some situations that, since we have experience in leasing because we are leasing, so we have an unusual situation that this is something that lives in society, and here it is now that it gets its somehow rounded legal norm and legal regulation. We have a situation that shouldn't happen. I'm warning you of a case where a disabled person bought a car on a Leasing. He put his disability sticker on, however, at the time of the collection, Croatian highways did not recognise by looking at the book, given who was in the transport book as the owner of a particular company registered, they did not recognise his disability. They said, "This is the first reading for us, however, and so on as it was called, it's not disabled, and we don't recognise your disability." Maybe it's just now, this is just the first reading, but this is just the one that I'm mentioning to the final proposal just because it's powerful institutions, those that will be even more powerful and simply as it is everywhere in the world, and those who are ruthless capitalist commitment, so in which simply the state has left it, so that they are aware of such corporations as these corporations are asked to take over then the role of both society and the state itself. To show themselves a social note when the state won't. So, given that you are not only ahead of them but also incentivizing them, I expect that in the second reading, the second reading will take place, and that moment about the moment that is very sensitive to our citizens will still take a little account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72493	Thank you. State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ante Zigman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72494	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Well, I'd like to thank everyone for a constructive discussion. The government will, of course, consider all the proposals. I would say immediately at first, therefore, about the importance of law-making yes, and I am glad that all MPs have almost agreed that it is important to pass a law that regulates this area and the government will, in a very short period of time, actually, on the basis of all these proposals and remarks therefore propose and refer to another reading of the new law because it is indeed in the interest of both the government and Croatian citizens that as soon as possible they have a quality law that will regulate this very important financial area. Why, I'll just maybe look back at the part that spoke to the distinguished representative Leco about why it wasn't before? So it's that this area actually started to blow up in 2002, 2003 when more restrictive measures of monetary government were started, so the Croatian National Bank, and in that sense, leasing was getting more and more focused. Also last year, when additional tightened measures went further into focus and, of course, making quality law is not possible in a very short time overnight. We are all aware of that and the government, and here, with all our efforts, we have created this law and proposed it to the Honorable Parliament. So in that sense the government will take into account all your proposals and in the next reading come out hopefully with everyone, with a law that will be fully acceptable to all MPs and I believe you will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72495	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a law on leasing. I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a Law on Leasing is adopted. All objections, proposals, opinions will be sent to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Is there a Croatian word for leasing? The result? With 83 votes for, one abstention... You're abstention compared to leasing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72498	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable parliamentary representatives, the declaration of another nature park is a very important fact actually for the system of protection of natural heritage because it is one way, so we will leave to the next generations in reality what we inherited from our ancestors, and that is the most beautiful thing we have, of course, these are the natural beauty of our homeland. I would also like to say at the very beginning that this is the first example of respecting the overall procedure of declaring one area protected by European standards. Namely, the public was involved in the declaration. Local communities, environmental associations, nature conservation associations and of course professions were involved. A few words about the island's own island group, which is located south of the island of Korčula. It is made up of the largest island of Lastovo and a group of islands Lastovnjaki and Vrhovnjaki in the east and island of Sušac in the west. This group, consisting of 44 islands and islands and cliffs, is the most remote island group of the Croatian Adriatic coast. The basic value of the characteristic of this space is the divorce of the island group itself, the floral and fanatical features of the interior of the island, the richness and diversity of the underwater living world and the picturesqueness of the entire area. The island of Lastovo is covered with partly high vegetation, forest and aleppo pine, thermophilic communities of oak, honey and black jasen and the forest of oak blacks in different degradation stages. The parts of the interior are also used as working ground, and the whole area is florally diverse. The island of Lastovo has 703 properties of which 15 endemics are recorded. Since the area of the Lastovo island group was not covered by the regulation at the time when the other islands were naturally frozen, a greater number of properties was generally recorded here than in the surrounding islands. Many species of both plants and animals have been included in a red list of endangered plant and animal species, which according to the criteria of international protection practices for our area have been drawn up by the Protection Service of the Nature of the Republic of Croatia. This island group is also important for bird migration. It is important to mention that this space is also the authentic habitat of a sea bear one of the world's most endangered mammals. This animal is sometimes seen in Adriatic waters. The special value of this space certainly gives the sea and the sea and its very rich living world. This applies to both bottom species, seating but also to those living at the bottom, especially fish and crabs, but also to the coastal species. The area of this island is also valuable from a cultural historical point of view. With valuable traditional architecture, archaeological findings on land are important and in its submarine where many important archaeological sites have been found that everyone needs to keep from being devastated. Because of its exceptional natural characteristics, especially because it represents a vast, natural, slightly altered area, especially its underwater, the Lastovo island group should be particularly protected because of the marked ecological, educational, cultural and historical and recreational values. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Nature Protection Act is proposed to apply nature park as an appropriate category of protection in that area. We represent ourselves at the Ministry of Culture, precisely this category of protection of nature parks because they are allowed in such a case, this level of protection and economic activity, although there is one restriction but these restrictions are not a burden for the population, but rather a profit. The protection regime, which I quote from the law and prescribed for nature parks, will preserve the exceptional and significant values of the ownership area with the permission of those economic and other activities and actions, which will not compromise the essential nature of this area for which protection and declaration is made. The island of Lastovo has long been recognised as a particularly valuable space, the declaration of this island by nature park is also foreseen by the strategy of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia, which the Croatian Parliament has brought back in '99. the year in which the special place has the protection of particularly valuable spaces and environments. In the document of the strategy is also an action plan to protect the biodiversity of the Republic of Croatia which also adopted the Croatian Parliament in '99. the year is scheduled to declare this area a park of nature. For all of these reasons, the Ministry of Culture shall be based on Articles 13 and 96. The Act on the Protection of Nature and, with the expert explanation of the Office of Nature Protection, reached a solution on the preventive protection of the island of Lastova in the category of nature park, so that all the protection measures can be applied to it before the law is passed here. In accordance with the provisions of Article 22. The Act on the Protection of Nature from 17 November and 16 December was implemented on Lastovo’s public insight, that on 10 December a public presentation was held from a study to declare protection in the category of nature park and a draft of the Law on the Announcing of Nature Park for the property area. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Lastovo will also be the first nature park at the entrance to Croatia's aquarium, and thus in fact, in some way an example of Croatia taking care of its natural goods, because this is one of the richest submarines on the entire Adriatic. So I ask this High House to pass this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72499	Thank you. Reporters? Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, distinguished representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72500	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the final proposal of the Nature Park Act "Lastovo Otok" and I want to point out at first that the Croatian Democratic Community will, of course, strongly support the adoption of such a law that will really bring the paper into the lives of all residents of Lastovo but will primarily protect what needs to be protected for many reasons. Minister of Culture Mr. Bozo Biskupić, has already pointed out these reasons here but I will add some more reasons on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club, which also seems important to us. First of all, it is the protection of flora and fauna that is extremely rich on Lastovo. In the future, the natural beauty of Lastova will certainly attract a large number of people of Croatia who will want to visit it both tourists and boaters and all those who really consider this island extremely attractive, extremely beautiful but, as already said for the future generation, it is of paramount importance to protect flora and fauna that is truly special. The very fact that there are 15 endemic species speaks for itself enough, speaks for itself enough about the specificity of this island, which, fortunately or unfortunately, is taken either in isolation for years, was not allowed to visit all of this island for known reasons that I would not now return to, but in some ways the destruction of the island was prevented. Fortunately, the procedure that was carried out in the event of the declaration of nature park in the Lastovo Islands is of exceptional importance because it included all those who should have been included above all those who live, who are most interested in their island, are those who live on Lastovo, residents of Dubrovnik-Neretva County but also all those associations that follow problems in nature protection, in the protection of flora and fauna on the Adriatic and certainly that this procedure was extremely important in the awareness of all those whose heart is Lastovo. The very fact that one of the most endangered species, has its authentic habitat on Lastovo, is the Mediterranean bear enough to talk about the attractiveness of this area, speaks enough of the different geological history of this island. Let me look back at something that was prevented by this law. What happened unfortunately during the past period on the island of Mljet has been prevented from happening. It has been prevented from selling or trying to make illegal sales, and in this sense this law will make its contribution, but on the other hand it is ensured that residents of Lastovo are developing economically, to place their island, their island, in the function of their development in one quality way, so it is a sustainable development and it is indeed a particularly protected area that will certainly contribute to the development of the Republic of Croatia because believe what is on Lastovo, for those who were not, indeed, worth seeing, it is beauty at least equal to the beauty of the Plitvice Lakes or other protected parts of the Republic of Croatia, and can therefore be measured with the beauty of the world's natural heritage. In that sense, I do not think there should be too much debt because I believe that there will be a high agreement in this House on the protection of the islands of Lastovski and on the adoption of this final proposal of the Nature Park Act. I believe that will be done by consensus, but if not, certainly most of the votes of all MPs. Here, once again in the end we strongly support the adoption of this law because it will mean a lot to the islanders, it will mean a lot to the island itself, but I also want to highlight the need to make sure that as soon as possible a public institution that will really take care of the implementation of this law, which will in the right way ensure that Lastovo is really in all areas of nature park and that he is really proud of all of us in Croatia, and I am sure that this institution will be of great importance to Lastovo himself and I must say that the municipality of Lastovo, that its leader, the municipal head of the municipality, has actually supported this bill and that he really has very few opponents or I do not know that he has real opponents and in this sense I am saying we will bring one new quality of life to this southern and isolated island, which, and in this way, will come quite close to all of Croatia. This would be on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, so we strongly support this Final Proposal for a Law on the Declaration of Nature Park "Lastovo Otok".
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72501	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Luka Roic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72502	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, on behalf of the HSS Club, I would also like to say a few words about this bill, about a bill declaring the Park of Nature "Lastovo Otok". We've heard it's a relatively small area, only 195 kilometers square, but it's a very interesting and very biological and certainly diverse area. Lastovo is indeed the pearl of our island, one of the most remote islands, whose area affects the eastern Lastovnjaki, the Vrhovnjaki, from the west of the island of Sušac and everyone who was there once, I think he wants to return again. Unfortunately, like all islands, and especially these farthest ones, the problem is demographically present and few inhabitants can actually enjoy the benefits of the natural riches that God himself has given. There, and in this way it is good to protect and to protect at least what is left, and there is much left, although each species is almost endangered in such areas because all those irresponsible individuals who unrequitedly devastate such spaces are also able to destroy such treasures and such beauty in fact completely or partially. It is therefore to welcome the decision of the Croatian Government to pass a law declaring the Nature Park "Lastovo Otok" and thus make it impossible for all those who, possibly in a spatial arrangement, thought to devastate this area, but also that all those treasures from the sub-sea, flora and fauna rich, which is very important for habitats and migrations of various birds to authentic, we have heard, the area of the sea bear that is still seen in that area, and it is one of the most endangered species of sea mammals. Therefore, all the protections in this direction are certainly to be welcomed and it is to expect that such a decision and to encourage some to want to live on Lastovo, that perhaps their working life and their working ability involve themselves in such a species because the activities are, indeed, the biggest problem of our islands is the old population, the weak demographic image, the low growth, we all know that on such islands are much more dying than giving birth and it takes great, great care for all of us to remain partially or completely intact, and certainly very much interested in the lives of people and also all of these plants, animals and submarines and marine organisms that are actually an integral part of that area and without which this area would not be as interesting and rich as it is. That's why we at the HSS support the bill, and we will, of course, raise our hand to pass this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72503	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed representative, Željko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72504	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished members of the ministry. I would also like to say in front of the HNS club that we support and that this is a commendable proposal, but I would like to warn you of some of the things that have been happening in the Park of Nature "Vran Lake", "Kornati", etc. I'm afraid even this few inhabitants who own this property by declaring nature park do not endanger their lives and lives. So I'd like to say that the people who live there to allow them to throw the net, throw it away, because you know that by declaring nature park, that kind of fishing is forbidden. If it is not in certain parts such as Kornati, it is allowed for Murter, Murterine, it will be prohibited by European standards, and now it is allowed. Therefore, I fear that protecting the plant and animal world on Lastovo does not endanger the human life that is thus in decline. So my club and the HNS would go to try. that the ministry tries to meet these people there, and so every year less and less to provide them with a way, a habit and a life as they have so far spent it so that there is no conflict between nature parks, i.e. The management of the nature park and the local population as it happened on the Vranj Lake, so there was arson, deliberate devastation, destruction and if anyone is responsible for Vranj Lake and Kornati and so on and for Lastovo, then it is the people who live there who deserve it. If they hadn't kept their end, if they hadn't preserved it, it wouldn't have been possible today to declare nature park. Therefore, as for the declaration and the Croatian People's Party Club, we accept this with enthusiasm especially because of the bear that is here, I don't know if any of you had the chance, I did it last time in '93. years saw during the Homeland War and I don't know if I'll ever see her again for my life. It's a miracle of nature that we still have on the Adriatic, and I think we should do everything to protect it. Furthermore, I'm afraid that this million and 200 thousand kuna from the budget will be enough to set up especially now at the beginning when it will be necessary to take care of the rooms and introduce, I mean that I'm afraid. Therefore, the ministry should be prepared to jump in with some additional funds if necessary. All these remarks I make in my best faith, and I think that the ministry and the new management of nature park make sure that these people who are there, who live there, don't feel threatened. Whether we can do it in the future, I believe that not because what we have for the customers who have the right to do their old way of fishing now in the Kornati will have to be banned. That's what we're told on the Committee on Agriculture when we asked these questions. So, I don't know how it's legally going to be built in advance, but here I am asking the Ministry to take care of it because it's a beautiful nature in Croatia, it's wonderful everything, if we don't have there and we can throw it all in the water. In addition to these small remarks and the desire to make sure that the Croatian People's Party supports this and thanks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72505	Thank you. We're done discussing clubs. The word has a distinguished representative, Vladimir Stengl.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72506	Thank you. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Representative of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! The proposed text of the Nature Park Act "Lastovo Islands" or more precisely, the final proposal of the Nature Park Act "Lastovo is an island" is short, it has only four articles but its meaning is vice-proportional, let's just say that quality. It is about the most remote island group of our Adriatic coast, it is about 44 islands, islands and cliffs that may best depict only two words "richness of diversity" or one not a small part of the jewel of the Croatian Adriatic coast. All but all flora, fauna, under the sea, above the sea, arable areas in the interior of the island, a significant number of endemic properties, all of this deserves and requires protection, to be declared a park of nature. Let us hope that the Mediterranean bear has not forgotten to come to these areas or to dwell there, that the birds of the village that may be here may be moving from these parts, so from the dwellings in the northern parts of our country will be able to rest in the areas of the nature park and on their way to some who know how far away the ends are. They'll be safe from possible unconscious hunters, phenomena from which we have to admit we're not exactly immune. The sea and the sea, its wealth and diversity is a special story. And finally, and people are there, evidence that they've been living since ancient times in that space has a lot and all but all in a certain way and to some extent needs to be properly solved by nature park status. Nature park status is obtained by this law and becomes an integral part of the Nature Park "Lastovo islet" and the island of Sušac with a sea belt of 500 meters from the island. The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to adopt a regulation establishing a public institution for the management of the Park of Nature "Lastovo Otok". The state budget has provided the initial funds of one million and two hundred thousand kuna for the start of work of the institution. Everything is arranged for this law to be passed and started to apply, so I certainly support its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72507	Thank you. Honored representative of Jagoda Maja-Martinčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72508	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I guess, like many colleagues, when I asked them if they were going to discuss this, so they said there was nothing to argue about because we would certainly be all for this law because we all know the values and beauty of our islands, but I think there are some things to be pointed out, perhaps to underline what counterpart Matušić mentioned when he spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club, which is that, in addition to the protection that national park status will bring to Lastovo, we might need to consider some additional measures that would protect both Lastovo and other nature parks simply from grampility, from tycunisation and from everything that started to happen and came to light with the Mljet National Park. Because I'm not saying "lar puer lar" but I'm reading a theme published in "Vjesnik" on October 15th and 16th "Second islanded because of a new nature park," it's about Lastovo. It's not as idyllic as it seems to be at first sight in the local population itself. And there were resistances, and probably there will be some councilors, some people who participate in local government simply because this status will disable Lastovo as it should have prevented some other areas from being sold out. What this Law will pass except that it may help to restore abandoned fields, to work on environmentalism, to perhaps even a population that does not have much education and perhaps to prevent mass tourism, which is essential. It seems to me that the most important thing in all of this is to convince local people, people who care about Lastovo that this law is necessary because of themselves, because of tradition and heritage and all that they leave to their children and their grandchildren. It may also be necessary to work further in the media to make sure that the owners understand that this status is sought and given to their environment precisely for their own good. Because everything that can happen, and I repeat, and I will continue to repeat that the Mljet case was not the case, but it happened in the range of different entities going after the sale of the Croatian country. If it weren't just the laws that could protect it, it was the people on the scene, so the local population that must be aware of what it is and why their environment is given this status. Of course, I will support this Law as I think half of the Croatian islands, because of their localities, because of flora, fauna, because of all their values, should be even better protected, but I say, I don't know whether this Law will succeed in protecting Lastovo or any other such valuable area in Croatia from people who don't think about it, or about the future it will leave to their children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72509	Thank you. Dear Representative Miomir Zuzul. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72510	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will, in a certain way, continue to discuss colleagues who spoke before me and colleagues Martincevic now. Indeed, often a false dilemma, protection, or development is set up? I think it's not just a fake, it's a very dangerous dilemma. However, this dilemma is particularly being set up by all countries in transition, and at this very moment we are now, and all European Union countries have tried, or countries, when entering the European Union have tried to find a way to protect themselves from the rapid development that would lead to the devastation of some lasting values. We have this seemingly absurd fact that the states of old Europe have failed. And what happened to them? Their beautiful natures have just been devastated. Spain today, let's be honest, is nowhere near as attractive as Spain 15 years ago. Good part, Italy, Greece almost the whole, good part of France. The countries entering the European Union have understood and brought a whole series of ways and mechanisms to protect them. Croatia is in a specific situation. It's already been taken away from its protection mechanisms. In fact, we've already signed the agreements, we're going to have to stick to them, and we haven't come at all to negotiate how we're going to protect ourselves. Of course, I am talking about a famous agreement, about stabilisation and association and its provisions that will soon lead us citizens of Croatia and Croatia to the situation that we can no longer protect our values that we are talking about here. We cannot protect them because we will probably not still be part of the European Union so that through these mechanisms we can protect ourselves, and we will not be able to pass laws on our own that will be able to protect them. And I welcome the adoption of this Law so much, and I may say right now, I am not afraid that foreigners will come to Croatia and devastate Croatia. I think we do it more ourselves than strangers. But coming, the possibility of buying soon will be created by all citizens of the European Union with us, let's be very open here, the dilemma whether we go after fast and easy profits or try to protect something that is of some kind of general good, and the general good is, by definition, quite abstract. But the fact is one thing. Development can wait a year or two or three years, nothing important will happen, but protection can't. Because what we haven't protected this year next year may already be too late to protect. Recently, a friend of mine who lives abroad told me that in fact, the whole of Croatia should be declared a national park in Europe. And when you talk to Europeans, you will see that they speak with more admiration about Croatia than we speak ourselves. But that doesn't change things, our obligation to protect ourselves because the European Union doesn't know a mechanism that would declare a country a national park. Of course, it could probably be a pretty good tourist slogan for the promotion of Croatia, but it can't lead to some kind of legislation that would protect us. And that's why we have nothing left to do but find the mechanisms. It seems to me that this is one of the mechanisms through this law that is proposed and that is why I fully support this Law. And it seems to me that these and similar laws have more value and more weight than just one specific area of protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72511	Thank you. Honorable representative Lucia Chikesh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72512	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course I join my colleagues who support this Law of Nature Park of the Lastovo Islands. Surely this pearl of 44 islands, islets and cliffs who do not call other Kornati for no reason deserve this. And how broadly acquittal it is and how warmly it has been received from the population there is also seen in the media where they were manifested because they see their future in it. Of course, they accepted it in a warm way for the reason that counterpart Zuzul also mentioned a moment ago because they saw the great danger that this emphasized ecological, cultural and historical and tourist-recreative value was disrupting, destroying and devasting. Not only that, but they saw it in this and they saw it in one way and economic development, better prosperity of their island and sustainability according to the latest statistics of 820 living residents, it has even 450 hectares of arable surface, but only 10% of it has been processed. It may be that the resources that will eventually come will also lead to a change in this picture of the island’s inhabitants and will lead to a better future for this nation. Of course, the island and others are already involved in one project called responsible tourism and eco-regional protection of central and southern Dalmatia, which was certainly intended to show that the protection of nature and economic development are two sides to the scale of sustainable development. Economic progress and the right to a better and better quality of life cannot and must not be denied to any man. However, uncontrollable growth in human activities can lead to the destruction of these natural resources, lead to the suppression of natural habitats, the destruction of the eco-systems, and finally the changes that are being seen at global level today. And just so Lastovo doesn't experience this, this law will stop it, and that's why I support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72513	Thank you. Dear Representative, Vice President of the House Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72514	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I strongly support, I support the proposal for a law on the declaration of Nature Park "Lastovo Otok". It is necessary to do so because it is one of the pearls of our coast and sea and the sea is very important because many species of fish, mollusks, and other species that need to be protected in the land and around the owner’s archipelago. The area extends slightly less than 200 km of square surface and it can be drawn roughly from the top of the peak. from the island of Glavat to Sušac. It is interesting for the island of Sušac to say that it is an island which is actually its position and distance from the Palagruža in fact that Palagruža belonged to Croatia, so before Yugoslavia, after Croatia, or Croatia because it is closer to the Palagruž island of Susac than Montergan and one area of Italy for one 800 meters of everything, even in this area and overlaps the territorial sea between Palagruža and Susac. It's from that point of view. But of course this has nothing to do with this law, but it's good to remind that Lastovo is the most distant of ours, one of our most distant islands. That there is a real wealth of islands and Vrhovnjak and Lastovnjak are especially beautiful and have their own qualities to protect and the species only say on the islands of plant and animal species but also in the sea. So since some species are specifically spread on the island of Lastovo, and there is also a good part of endemic species that are actually the characteristic and specificity of the own island itself, it is also important to protect from the aleppo pine to the oak of honey, black jasen and black, i.e. garlic and other species, and the whole area is, here states that 703 sythonics have been recorded. This is one huge number in a small space, and as far as our protection of certain parts of our country and the declaration of nature park has one meaning universal in this sense, that such areas must be treated in terms of real estate or inability to build and so on. for each and every one. This means for tomorrow as a member of the European Union or even before we become a member of the European Union we will be able and we are obliged to free ourselves and open up the traffic of real estate, but that it will be, therefore, if something is banned or something is limited then it is limited for the citizens of Croatia as well as those who would eventually come from other countries and buy our property by trying to comply with urban plans, according to spatial plans there to build something. So, in fact, we have almost the only option after 10 February 2009 or 1 February 2009 to protect certain values of our values, let's say not only islands but also other areas of interest to protect ourselves and thus exclude them from a traffic that would be uncontrollable and that, in fact, under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, we would be obliged to implement, but always equally with the equal rights of the citizens of Croatia and of the citizens of the European Union whose hope we will become a member, but before that, we will have to liberalise the traffic of real estate. So this is a good move, this is a good proposal, and this way along with Mljet and Lastovo becomes such a park of nature which is pearl and special pride of the southern Adriatic. I, of course, once again support, or support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72515	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The final proposal of the law on the declaration of Nature Park "Lastovo Otokje". I am voting on the final draft of the law. The result? With 81 for and 3 abstentions adopted Final bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72518	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable MPs and parliamentary representatives. So here is the final proposal of the Law establishing the University of Pula. Compared to the original proposal here, we have two innovations, both of which were introduced in the light of the bill's proposal by two MPs, Mr. Dr. Sabatija and Mr Kovacevic during the debate on the first proposal. I remind you, this is about a bill on the establishment of a relatively small integrated university. Small by number of study programs, small by number of teachers, relatively small and by number of students, but let me say not small in relation to the expectations we have in relation to that institution. Namely 17 study programmes articulated in future university departments stemming from the current, current two colleges of a high school, which are members of the current University of Rijeka with the initial funds of one million and seven hundred thousand kunas can give the impression that it is a small potential, but as I said at the same time something which calls not only the enlightening lights in Istria but also organisations that raise hope for the overall economic and overall social development in Istria, but not only in Istria but in that part of Croatia. In this regard, we suggest that proposals be accepted. I repeat, we have followed both proposals, we have brought them into the reasoning and we are proposing that we accept the final draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72519	Thank you. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture, legislation. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, and it goes? He's going, I'm sorry, he's going to the Education, Science and Culture Committee. ... The committee, the esteemed representative, Željko Pavlic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72520	I've said a little bit, so it takes more time, here's the ladies and gentlemen of honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, and let me brief you on the decision of our committee. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed on the day, at the 26th session held on 27 September 2006, the final draft law establishing the University of Pula. The committee discussed the issue as a parent working body. The opening argument was submitted by the representatives of the applicant and the participants of the debate argued that there was no objection to the regulatory part of the proposal compared to the first reading completed in accordance with the requirements of the representatives at the plenary session of the data relating to the financing and status of the teaching staff. The government agrees with the proposing representatives that all planned and new studies could be difficult to maintain with the current number of teaching staff, taking into account in particular the standards of the "Bolonski" process. But it is also beyond a doubt that the proposed establishment of a higher education institution in the form of a university composed of a college-free department as a private legal entity will also facilitate the establishment and further operation of a new university. Such universities in cultural centres outside Zagreb are suitable, especially in order to develop a study of relevant artistic disciplines in the way of moving some of the capacities of art academies and other higher education studies concentrated in Zagreb. An assessment of the proposing representatives has been accepted that existing college and other higher education studies have been a solid foundation in Pula for the development of the planned modern university adaptable to today's needs. After the debate was held, the conclusion was unanimously reached: "The Committee proposes to the Croatian Parliament to pass a law on the establishment of a University in Pula in the form of a recast by the proposings." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72521	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Club of HDZ representatives, respected representative Lino Cervar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72522	Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen. I believe, we hold that it is not possible to talk about the Istria County Development Programme for the next 5 years developed by the Istrian Development Agency with the Ministry's Institute for International Relations, the Institute for Regional Development of the Istrian Development Tourist Agency and the Rural Development Agency of Istria if all these programmes do not monitor the knowledge with which we will ensure the development of new technologies, the implementation of innovation and the development of products and services with as much additional value as possible. This new dimension will be obtained safely and through the establishment of the University of Pula. For this reason, the Croatian Democratic Community Club gives full support to the final draft law establishing the University of Pula. In the operational development programme of the Istrian County, there is a major problem and this is an unfavourable educational structure of the workforce, i.e. lack of highly educated personnel as well as the so-called The outflow of Istrian brains into other countries and other Croatian counties. To achieve the 4 strategic objectives of the Istrian County such as competitive economy, human resources development and high social standards of balanced and sustainable development, the visibility of Istrian identity without educated and educated domestic children will be just another illusion. Istria with its 10 cities and 31 municipalities, with 53 primary schools and 26 secondary schools and 3 higher education institutions with a percentage of high professional qualifications lower than the republican average needs a university that will educate experts and managers with high education and scientific titles. And that is why the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the university, supports science and education that will help Istrian agriculture and livestock, fishing and mariculture and shipbuilding, industrial production of non-metallic products, tourism and small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and craftsmanship. The research and needs of entrepreneurs and there are more than 1500 projects impose the need to engage young experts with the capacity to implement and develop new information technologies as well as the management method. In Istria, there is a lack of mainly graduated technical science engineers, young construction experts, engineering, shipbuilding, electrical engineering. All of this entails the need for economic integration and development of Istria County with curricula. So to create a critical mass of human resources that will gain knowledge and experience to contribute to the development of the process of preparation for entry into the European Union. By modeling such a development, we will be able to say one day that we have a modern, rich, modern Istrian county. Otherwise, we'll be able to talk as we are today, not rarely about life on a big leg but unfortunately without cover. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72523	Thank you. I'll share time for the IDS club. Honorable representative first Walter Poropat, then behind him Damir Cain. ... Did you say that? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's just... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72524	We heard that, and everyone tells us that in the previous law, they supported all political parties in fact to recognise this law as positive energy and a future driver of society with all necessary changes in the County of Istria. The University includes the Faculty of Economics and Tourism in Pula, the Faculty of Philosophy, the School of Higher Education and the University Library. When considering the very name of the university, it is not only an identification element of a mere marker but also most often sums up the importance and content. When it comes to the names of universities in Europe, the most common practice is that they bear the names of celebrities in Graz, for example, is the University of "Franje Josipa", in Prague it is the famous "Carlova University", while it is a similar practice in Croatia. It means the famous University of "Josipa Jurj Strosmayer", while the Faculty of Economics in Pula bears the term "Dr. Mija Mirković, the Academy and the elementary school "Tone Peru" of the other Istrian giants, imposes the name of Bishop Jurja Dobrila. Namely, Bishop Juraj Dobrila was a person who, according to her church service, was responsible for the entire Istrian space west of Učka, so the Poreč-Pulski Bishop and the Trscan-Popara Bishop. He is also a prominent leader of the Croatian People's Movement in Istria who has been engaged in the enlightenment of the Istrian regiment and inciting and financially supported cultural activity. On the basis of the above, I conclude that the Bishop Dobrila is not only a key person of the Croatian People's Movement but is also a spiritual, social and cultural and educational engagement, so we have also proposed by amendment the name of Jurj Dobrila, who is advocating for well-being and enlightenment. When we talk about universities, we need to look at our positions not only in Croatia but also move globally in front of this line. A financial report recently came out where it is clearly shown that among the 35 leading European universities in Croatia there is not one single one, it is actually one indicator. I've made an effort to look at 101 leading worlds. Among the first three when we talk about a special world, there were universities in Pennsylvania, Harvard, Stanford, then Europe's London and Paris. Mostly among the first 100 there were no Croatian universities, meaning indicative of where we must go further. At the same time, Professor Bicanic, a lecturer from the Central European University in Budapest, says that Croatian business schools attract more and more young students, the quality of teaching does not fit international standards. Among the 6 economic colleges in Croatia is the only university in Split and a small university in Pula, according to the Bologna process. So three years before graduation, two years of undergraduate study. In fact, they suggest that the university in Split has the only chance to become the best major economic not college and take away even the primate of Zagreb, while Pula has the chance to become an excellent small, local college that will promote specialization and excellence. So, there is no room for pessimism, perhaps it is necessary, additional energy for the necessity of the reconstruction of all Croatian universities and in this direction I believe that the Pula University will also give its quality and achieve these values here in a few years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72525	Thank you. The IDS Club, the esteemed representative of Walter Poropat, in the first part.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72526	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The establishment of the University of Pula is a matter of national importance. The issue of establishing a strong state institution in Pula that will allow not only the development of science but everything science carries with it. And I am convinced that economic growth and overall social growth with the University of Pula will be appropriate and competitive in the way we want Istria in the coming time and in the way that Istria certainly deserves it. The main idea is that this university will contribute to the visibility of the university community and will be the hub of the development of the Croatian West with its virtue and quality of teaching and scientific work. I must say, it's a key word in the exercise of virtue. Quality in all aspects and the university mission is just to achieve and maintain the highest possible level of excellence in the teaching and scientific work. In achieving this, the university’s main objectives should certainly be to employ excellent teaching staff, and so that this university is actually a domicile university for teaching staff. To enroll top students from Istria and that the University of Pula should be such a university that will be interesting to students from all over Croatia, as well as a university that will be recognizable as a university for and who will attract all students from all parts of Europe. In the context of today's trends at universities in Europe and in creating a high school European space common, harmonised space, we must stand in a position not to separate science from high education at the university, i.e. that the university must not miss research but that it must be complementary and that a strong university can be a strong university precisely because it is a pre-graduate, graduate and postgraduate study, or all three cycles provided for under the Bologna Declaration, are based on and following what is being considered or explored at that university and only such a university can strengthen the entire region through support for economic, political, cultural and standard of life as a whole. The University of Pula will be a little flexible. The study will be organised and implemented depending on the needs of the market and profiled for certain scientific areas. Therefore, the basic characteristics of the University of Pula would be the systematic monitoring and search of personnel on the labour market and, accordingly, the gradual expansion of the teaching area and teaching from technical, biotechnical and social areas in the future. The University of Pula is a real need for life and I believe that the Law establishing the University of Pula in this House will receive unanimous support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72527	Thank you. Damir Cain, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72528	Honorable President, Secretary of State, Honorable Mr. Representatives. As my predecessors said I... It is absolutely necessary to support this law, you just may have to ask yourself why this law has not already been passed, there may have been a time to the summer break, and in some previous periods. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is no regional subjectivity of any space on any corner of the Earth ball without a university and it is so clear IDS 100% for. We therefore hold that in some ways it draws attention to these Istrian spaces, to open up the possibility of setting up other universities throughout the Republic of Croatia, I finally hold that space more strongly integrated into the world. Istria, I believe she solved the most significant economic problems with the whole series we have, starting with living standards and beyond. But here's just to say some data that, for example. Istrian exports are somewhere near $950 million, the Primorian-Gorski County, which is all the way to '90. There was a more developed space than an Istrian $400 million, that in the import of Istria somewhere at a billion 150 million dollars, the Primorje-Gorski County somewhere at 650 million dollars. We may be fortunate that large economic systems are relatively stable, it's true, a series has bankrupted them, but for example. Over the last week, one shipbuilding sucked about 4 billion and 200 million kunas, and that billion 700 million kunas went towards Split, as much as in Rijeka, 620 million kunas in Trogir, 220 million in Kraljevica, and the pulsed Oil from the state budget for this purpose received 0 kuna. It should be appreciated, clearly, that this is the result of opportunities that simply rule there. I also believe that others in Croatia must recognise this and also the contribution of Istria to the state budget must be appreciated. In recent history, Istra also had a regional parliament since 1861, had all the other regional institutions, had once had significantly more inhabitants than these terrible exodus between the two wars, or after World War II, but one institution of Istria never did. It's an Istrian university. I agree after World War II, people told me first to open schools, then clearly in native language, on the waves of the exodus Istria was leaving intellectual elites and Slavic and Romanian origins, so there somewhere after World War II de facto it should start all over again, almost from scratch. Today is the time for university. Mr. Meden quoted Article 13, so here it is said that within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law, the Senate of the University of Rijeka will decide on the addition of the Faculty of Economics and Tourism, Dr. Mijo Mirković, Faculty of Philosophy in Pula, Higher Teacher School in Pula, University and University Library, etc. We're all aware here that it's moving extremely modestly. I am particularly pleased to mention here that the name of his eminence, the historic Istrian bishop Jurj Dobrila, and the name of Mija Mirković alas Mate Balota, an Istrian poet bard of Rakljan, a brilliant economist, patriot, whose place is certainly not possible to bypass in the new age, not only Istrian but then Croatian, at the time of Yugoslav history for his participation in the Paris conference '47. Which definitely determines the fate of Istria, Rijeka, Zadar, and their integration into the national Corps of the Croatian people. There's so much to pay for today, and there's also Mati Baloti's debt. There have been disputes between Istria, the political Zagreb around the university, but this is also the thing I say prestige, exiting from some anonymity and this law, all those who hold onto these spaces and even to opportunities in this country will surely support it. I'd like to apply the principle of bilingualism in Istria and at the university, but even now it's not crucial. It's crucial that it comes to life today. As time goes on, it will certainly increase standards, and it will, like Istria, talk about the university, I want to believe, it will advance both by multiculturality and by openness and by tolerance and by connected to the world, but also by the quality of which Walter, Lino, Meden spoke about, etc. Today, he said the Pula University somewhere on that zero point, as I don't know, like Istria was out there in '47. After the war, you need to start over, there's space, and the expectations as we've heard from the secretary of state are great. I claim that Istria gets a lot, this is a great thing for Istria, its day of establishment will be a great day for Istria. I repeat, for the first time in history, Istria can talk about its university. It was a struggle to get him, and now this moment is clearly to be hailed. Unfortunately, the student standard in Pula, in Istria, is at a much lower level, perhaps because we didn't have a university than we did today in Rijeka, Split, the city of Zagreb, and also some other centres in Zadar, local self-government should enter this materially, but the point is that this could be redistributed at the state level, i.e. local self-government because it is still illogical that one of the most economically prestigious areas in the Republic of Croatia, I am talking about the County of Istria has a budget of 210 million kuna. Understandable of the number of jobs everything depends, but largely on the redistribution of funds between the state and local self-government. These million 716 thousand and 14 limes that are provided for this year in the state budget are enough to start with, for example, "vegetation" but Pula where today every seven square meters of land owned by the military or the state has certainly room to finance the university in some way. For the end, I agree with all those like Lino said. University is also an affirmation of the identity of space, university is integration, university is development, progress and university is equal to subjectivity of space. I repeat, people were leaving Istria, leaving today, especially after 1990s, when we lost almost 20,000 jobs in the period from 92 to 94 alone. Many young people today are in our neighbouring country of Italy, there at prestigious universities, and after the same very easily they got the opportunity to accomplish their existence in the country where they studied. Unfortunately, the vast majority of them precisely because of these material possibilities or inability will not return to the Republic of Croatia. There must be a lot of work going on in Istria. It's lucky he's busy. It's lucky our unemployment rate is at least 6%. Maybe a little quieter, a little better living but not much different than elsewhere in Croatia. Finally, I have absolutely no objection to the university wearing the title of Bishop Yuri Dobrill. Perhaps Mijo Mirkovic is an equally acceptable solution to me, the economic college bears his name. However, Bishop Dobrila, who said that Bishop Slavena, thinks of the Slovenes but also Romana means by referring to the Italians, simply expressed that leader as perhaps tomorrow's university day should organize him as a bilingual university, or trilingual, etc. Whatever happens. Bishop Dobrila, the bishop, who was born in Ježenje, who was buried in Trieste, who led the Poreč-Pulsic diocese, later the Turkish diocese simply exceeded that time of express national divisions, the narrowness of that moment, the closure of these spaces, ideological and all other exclusiveities, and certainly deserves to be remembered in this way, regardless of what I might be closer to that Istrian... Mother Balotti, Miju Mirkovic, but this time we won't be causing any problems, although the amendment might have been good for some kind of public debate, there's no time, we'll vote on Friday. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The sooner we vote on the law the better and see what is most acceptable as the name of the University of Pula. All in all, we absolutely support the establishment of this university, this project and I have nothing left to do but wish him much happiness in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72529	Thank you. For the SDP Club, respected representative Anton Perusko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72530	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Here are the HDZ and IDS clubs with the privilege of having two or more representatives from Istria, so they talked in pairs and a little longer, I don't have until the next SDP election but one MP, so I'll be on behalf of the SDP Club and I'll be a little shorter. I would like to say at first that I absolutely agree with Mr. Secretary of State that this is about a small university but a university of which we have high expectations. Of course, these high expectations have both the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and all the public in Istria, the Istrian economy, the local community and the scientific community certainly. But here, today, we have a final draft law on the establishment of a university in Pula and I am convinced that this law will be voted tomorrow and the SDP's Club of Representatives gives all support to the adoption of this law. In my first reading, I will remind myself of the support of the adoption of the law establishing a university in Pula, all the club representatives in this House gave. The reference to the text of the bill itself was not what the Proposer said, and today the final proposal, which is textually identical with the one in the first reading, is without the need to elaborate, need and support the adoption of this law. The expectations and announcements were announced and we expected everyone together so that the university could start on October 1st of this year. As a date, we expected it to be a formal start date for a new Pula university. As I hope the law will be passed tomorrow, followed by a normally necessary and necessary detachment procedure from the Rijeka University whose Senate needs to decide on the separation of the Pula University and the Government must appoint a new interim rector so that it can be objectively expected that the new pulse university will formally start at the end of the year or somewhere in February next year. Regardless of this, it is good that the pulse university happens even though students in this academic year will not feel any change in teaching. If new programmes are to be adopted after the start of work, and for me and us at the SDP Club, they must adopt new programmes and we claim that new programmes must be adopted and new content will not be felt by students until the next academic year 2007/2008. The heart of the Pula University for the time being consists of the Faculty of Economics and Tourism, the Faculty of Economics and Tourism, the University Library and the Student Centre and later, as part of the university must be integrated and an existing study of political sciences in Pula. The number of professors and students varies from year to year but with about 200 professors and about 3,000 and a half students, the pulsate university will belong to the category of approximately Zadar or Dubrovnik which has already proven itself so the SDP Club supports the establishment of a university in Pula. We are aware at the SDP Club that the reconstruction of higher education institutions and their organisation into integrated universities of a separate type of complex and responsible business but also the only approach that guarantees the success and quality of higher education, adapted to the Bologna Declaration and modern practice. In this particular case, when it comes to Pula University, there is no resistance. There is absolute agreement between the members that will be integrated. The support is also provided by the University of Rijeka. Absolutely and undivided support is provided by the local community, the church, an economy that is aware that the famous saying of Karan pedagogue Grer that the economy without science has a blind foundation, and the Istrian economy rightly expects much of the new Pula University and science. The opening of Pula University will be only the first step in creating a centre of excellence in Istria as the westernmost part of Croatia's homeland. The future Pula University will not and must not be copies of existing universities. The programmes must not overlap with existing programmes of the University of Rijeka and must be addressed to the economy, students from Istria, as well as to those from neighbouring regions and nearby foreign regions. In the creation of new programs of which some programs, I know that they are already and are waiting for university verification so that they can enter into realisation in the next academic year. It must participate, in this creation and continuation of creation, in the entire academic community but also in the wider social environment, especially the economy. As a representative of the SDP coming from Istria, I know the situation quite well, speaking on behalf of the Club, I will allow myself to say that the weakest link in the Pula University chain is a student standard that is at a low level or rather inadmissiblely low. Building a campus at the facilities of an old pulse hospital is necessary. Also completing the FETA building for which the investment is needed to provide 18 million, I place as a problem for the founders, i.e., before the Government of the Republic of Croatia because the Istrian County with a budget of 220 million with all the best will and desire is not possible. I know that the completion of this building is combined with the funds of the University of Rijeka, whether in the form of a loan or in any other way. However, this is a problem the ministry must take care of. And finally, colleagues and colleagues, regardless of all the problems that have been and will be, there is no doubt that knowledge and scientific methods enter all the capillaries of the post-industrial society. The university is becoming an extremely important genetic mechanism for such a society, the transducers of modern civilization to new generations. It also makes universities organically embedded in its environment. Many countries in Europe plan or vigorously already implement regulation and decentralisation of higher education systems in response to new challenges and circumstances. These harmonisation processes, which will be implemented in Europe by 2010, also joined Croatia by signing the Bologna Declaration in Prague in 2001. The process of harmonising higher education will be possible to successfully implement the creation of flexible and adaptable higher schools, which according to experiences in the world are relatively smaller universities that need to be able to adapt quickly and contribute to the development of future learning societies. We are convinced that these processes in Croatia and Europe will make a quality contribution to both the draft and development of the University of Pula and therefore the SDP Club will give its undivided political support to the University of Pula. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72531	Thank you. For the HSS Club, a respected representative of Zvonimir Sabati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72532	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. We do not have representatives from Istria at the HSS Club, so I will try something from the northwest of Croatia to say about the University of Pula. As everyone knows, we also supported the establishment of a university when we first read, so at first I would say that today, of course, we will provide support, which certainly has no doubt or doubt. I would just like to start by saying that certain remarks that I made on behalf of the Club were included in the explanation and to thank the promoter for that, so that we got safe and new knowledge. I would also say at first that the law itself, which I hope will be passed tomorrow, creates basic preconditions for what is to be achieved. I would say that today, more or less, we are all talking about how we would like the university, how it should be at the end, and what is important to us as parliamentary representatives that by voting this law we will create, we will actually take the first step, create basic preconditions. That should be emphasized, and it should be appreciated. All the rest of the work that's serious and it's big first of all in front of the university, and we hope that all these goals that are written here will be fulfilled. Why did I say in the introduction that I'm glad that here and certain data that we asked for in our first reading, let's see what kind of scientific learning frame that's going to be within the new university. So let's see a little bit and what are the study programs. From this particular data, we can say that the new university is waiting for a very serious job. Yeah, I don't... The Faculty of Philosophy is, but of course it will be the strongest university institution in the future and by the number of study programs and also by the number of university teachers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And of course, the weak is the High School of Teachers and by number, as I said, study programs, and even more so by the number of external associates. That should be emphasized here because we don't need any scientific recruits. I say all this together first and foremost as a reality that needs to be faced with a new university and try to find some ways to strengthen this young university as soon as possible. What I'd like to say is that we at the HSS Club would be happy to have seen here today a series of new programs that a new university will perform within one of the colleges. I've heard from my colleague, Peru, that they're already done, and I'm glad to hear it, but unfortunately, in this explanation, it doesn't say anything, so I can't even know about it all together. Because these new programmes and new orientations of university work guarantee the achievement of the goals that have been written, which is the creation of a centre of higher education excellence, strengthening the contribution of the university of the region through support in industry, trade, political and cultural life. And of course the study will be organised and carried out depending on the needs of the market. These are all simple assumptions and goals set, and they must be realized as I said on the new study programmes. What I'd like to say is still about funding the university. We don't need to get carried away that the new university is going to cost, and we don't have to be too afraid to write that it's going to be a bigger figure than it is now. That's understandable. And thank God that's how it is, it means that more money is expected for the new university to do a job that is expected, and above all there is thought of certain capital investments that should be, at least among other things, one of the tasks of the ministry of the university. What I end up saying is just, especially glad, it is that relatively in great agreement this proposal is accepted and that this is the path I suppose the rest of Croatia will go to. I'd like, of course, to have a real strategy and to see how it's planned and to have a similar university planned somewhere else. Of course, here we have to talk about the University of Varazdin, but of course when the time comes. Here I am finally saying that with the support that HSLS representatives will give this proposal for a law establishing the University of Pula, I want a lot of happiness in the future work of a new university because they will really need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72533	Thank you. For the club HSLS, respected representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72534	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I don't think the support of the HSLS club for the establishment of the University of Pula is questionable. After all, I come from the city, from the region where the university was founded 40 years ago, and I can really say that the history of my city and the history of even eastern Croatia before the founding of the university and then is not identical and we can talk about a whole series of positive implications and the fact that a university in eastern Croatia was founded in Osijek and I expect something similar to that to happen in Istria. And it's hard to talk about decentralisation if that decentralisation doesn't follow and decentralisation of higher education and what's like a man who lives in Istria for a part of the year and then has a more direct contact with these people's problems, I noticed that a large number of young people study outside Istria, not only outside of Croatia but also in neighbouring countries, Slovenia and Italy, and what usually happens where there is a better homeland, there and there remains in some way this whole of our country's pay and our young people so that when they come to the end they actually give up and somewhere else their abilities show not where they were born and where they lived, where they were educated but where they were given a better perspective. Certainly, the establishment of a university, that is, can prevent it, and that is exactly what this needs is going to be, because we think it's not just, that it's also a very important and political act I say that has these other demographic, economic and economic implications and positive implications. But I'm just like my colleague Sabati next to all of these words I'm not going to repeat these positive implications of this act, and I'm also going to show not a skepticism but also a warning that the university can not only be a mechanical principle on a daily basis, so then I don't know the existing higher education institutions, scientific institutions, by mechanical gathering them to create a university, but that we really need to have a strategy after that from those staffs and to what we're going to offer students who will live there, to be educated and what we certainly need to be clear, and I hope that people in the ministry are really serious people and who really have to think about what they're going to do, to Anticipatialize that future, which is waiting for us in 10, 20 and more years, so that student standard is something that day to take care of today. And I hope that we also have to have this deep awareness about it, that it's the thing that's going to cost, that it's the thing that doesn't only come about that tomorrow or some day we're going to raise our hand and just admit that Istria deserves to get its own university, rather than simply see what's coming after us and in some way how we find that right measure that after this we don't really have the inflation of these universities in some other subregion or cities that throughout history have also had a very high, or large participation in creating modern and democratic Croatia from Varazdin and beyond. I think it's also not good and that there must be this measure to preserve and it's not just what we don't know we've accepted the Bologna process but to see the Bologna process as much as I know how much more requires a whole series of other steps, how much I'm familiar with today we're squatting and we haven't done everything that was up to us. That's why what was the 19th century pradigma, which is the history of Croatia in the 19th century, is the history of its schools, its reading rooms, its singing societies. In the 21st century, it can indeed be history and universities. I say on that side it's commendable, but as I say it certainly can't, we can't go to the wording that these political criteria prevail and that we actually forget then we have a problem with the staff and that it's kind of an extension of actually high school education, and that it's actually done under the label of the university's university. I hope we understand that. I'm glad to hear in the explanations that this is exactly going to be offered, since nothing is in any way from the University of Rijeka, that it will insist on this particularity, on this differentiation of specifics, that the labour market will in some way be the regulator of those needs but I say the same with the great support of the man I have, for whom I can be pretentious and say that I also feel this ancient spirit and Istrian identity and that I respect it and recognise it in some way when it needs to be valorised and in this way, we also have this one skeptic that, in addition to this act, we must be followed by a whole series of other activities, and this is about human teaming and student standard without which we don't actually have a quality university. In this sense, once again there is this mildness, I will not say suggestions, not objects, but suggestions that should be made that this strategy of the future network of higher education institutions, institutions, universities in Croatia has and this component of the HSLS Club supports the establishment of a university in Pula. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72535	Thank you. For the club HSU, the respected representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72536	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian party of pensioners also has in, one MP from Istria until the next parliamentary elections, I have 15 minutes at my disposal. I don't have to share with anyone, but I don't want to share that much because I think a lot of, a lot of nice words have already been said, so it shouldn't be repeated. I would like to begin by saying that, as we said in our first reading, the Croatian party of pensioners stands firmly behind this final proposal of the law and gives strong and unreserved support and, of course, will vote this final proposal, the bill. This morning, I saw a little phonogram, a little bit of a phonogram with a debate on a bill on the establishment of a University of Pula, in my first reading, and I have to admit that in a rare number of phonograms I found so many selected words and so many messages of support and I really expected that this bill would be passed by July 15th. But here we are. I think if we do this seriously, and I think we need to do this seriously, and we have serious intentions that this should not be an obstacle to future quality work and this whole procedure for the establishment of the University of Pula. I will underline once again what I said in my first reading that in Croatia, the party of pensioners we appreciate that the establishment of the University of Pula is the best investment for the future, a historic step and a guarantee of future development of Pula and a wider homeland. This is because the creation of intellectual capital, the capital of knowledge, the creation of a prerequisite for its concentration and related to local space and origin means the security and progress of the community. This is indeed one big gift for Istria but also the biggest possible gift for Pula on the 150th anniversary of the beginning, i.e. the establishment and continuous work of the shipyard in Pula. So on the 150th anniversary of the birth of the symbols of development and the new, recent history of Pula because these 150 years of Pula development is linked exclusively to the shipbuilding of the Ulnik. Or for shipbuilding in Pula. And as soon as we touched that, I would refer to the request or the request of the president of our county assembly of my colleague, Peru, and I think that already, when the Uljani Brodogradje from the State budget did not seek or should not have been rescheduled from the State budget, I think that a nice compensation would be to ensure in the State budget for 2007 that 20 million kuna is not full and that the building of the Faculty of Economics and Tourism in Croatia, Istria, in Pula, would finally be completed, given that 100 metres from the county building and it really looks terrible in the very heart of Pula. So I'm going to stand by in all possible ways that we're allowed as representatives either in lobbying for the completion of this project, either through the amendments, but we certainly wish, I think to all the representatives from Istria and Pula that as soon as possible this facility ends because it's not in function, it's failing. It's all dead capital, buildings fail. None of this has any use, and the shame is ultimately great. For Pula and Istria, for Croatia and for the entire university community. Of course it would be inappropriate at this point to be overly euphoric, proud and optimistic that what comes is much better and more quality than today, but also real. The adoption of law on the establishment of a university in Pula is only the first major one, I stress the first major step just as the sinking of a ship into the sea that requires additional financial efforts from the local community of the City of Pula, the County of Istria and the Republic of Croatia to round the contents of the entire system and to arrange all the contents of the university centre. So there's and there's still a lot of work to be done and a lot of obligations. Personally, I think that the City of Pula and the County of Istria, with the firm support of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, express with this act the firm will and intention of Pula to become a new pearl on the necklace of the University Community of Croatia and an example of further politilateral development and the university community according to our needs and European orientations and trends. Before I say my closing word, it's too bad that I don't have colleagues Cervar and Medena here because at this point, although I have to say, at this point I want to tell them: how many times I share their views when they criticise the IDS Club or my club or I don't know which other one, this time I would resent them because with the unique support of this project of all Istra representatives we could really drink coffee this morning and we could all sign this amendment whether this one, whether the university will be called Juraj Dobrila or Mijo Mirković, Mate Balota because both are irreparably responsible for the development and university communities and general knowledge, progress and culture in Istria. And finally as an authentic Istrian, as a 36-year-old population of Pula, I want to thank everyone who supported this project from this place. Who supported this law in the debate in the first reading and now in the final proposal and I would like to thank in advance all those who will press plus or vote in favour of this Final Bill proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72537	Thank you. Honorable representative Helena Ahel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72538	Thank you, Mr. President, Secretary of State. The government recognised the needs of Istria's population to establish a higher education centre. In Istria, there are many high schools that will act unitedly to ensure integrity and the necessary standard of high education by establishing universities and university libraries. The establishment of the University of Pula creates a centre of higher education that will contribute to the better quality social and economic life of Croatian residents. Studies are conceived in a way that they do not overlap with the existing programme of the University of Rijeka and other universities in Croatia, but that they fully meet the needs of the labour market. The benefits of the establishment of the University of Pula are also the monitoring of the demand for labour market personnel, as well as the opportunities to expand the areas from which teaching will take place, as well as the expansion of the gravity area of the university that enables students from all over Croatia and neighbouring countries to study. Universitys have a significant impact on regional development, on the development of counties through increased gross domestic product, employment and income. It improves the social and cultural life of the region, educates labour and strongly helps to develop the economy. Many studies carried out confirm the positive impact of the university on the growth of the region's gross social product. Research carried out at universities is an important incentive for regional development and employment, as are also significant funds invested in these research. University students help increase efficiency, productivity and introduce new products in companies. The University of Pula will be of importance to the state economy as well as the community in which it operates. By investing in the education of individuals, an individual acquires the qualifications, knowledge and ability needed to carry out modern production processes. The educated society is able to achieve a high rate of growth in technology and progress. Through the education of students, the intellectual and cultural diversity of the community in which it operates is achieved and increased. Through education, individuals benefit from a wide range of profits, pleasures of the work they do, easier progress and many others, and by their actions they contribute to and development and progress of the environment and society in which they live and operate. Istria is one of Croatia's most developed parts, and it needs a highly educated attitude to be the bearer of economic growth. By establishing the University of Pula, this will certainly happen faster and therefore I support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72539	Thank you. Dear Representative Jagoda Maja Martincevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72540	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I won't last much longer but I'll try to repeat what I said on the board when there was a debate about the University of Pula. I would simply like to remind myself of something from my portfolio and my profession. In particular, the Pula Study is known for its classical harmony, since students and students of harmonica collect numerous awards around the world, so let's say that it is logical to continue teaching in the new university of harmonicas. However, I would just like to remind you of something. Istria has an Istrian scale that is listed as UNESCO candidate for the protection of cultural heritage. However, the Istrian scale, which is indeed an Istrian and Croatian unique and which is not known by any other musical culture of Europe or beyond, has never been capitalized. And so I would argue that within the future university, music is taken into account in another way, not only because of the Istrian scale that can be a symbol of all of it but because the Istrian middle is a concrete pulse environment, but because it has been crying out for years for its orchestras, for its staffs, as the drama theatre has not had its young staff for years, everyone comes to Zagreb, everyone is here and everyone stays here, and therefore Pula with its theatre building for years could not reach its own ensemble as it has never been able to reach the real orchestra. They are constantly paid to host together, young people are leaving because they can't study there, so I'm making sure that the university takes care of the art academy, the departments and the music academy and the drama academy, so that those young people who are truly gifted can study at home and can stay at home for the benefit of their environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72541	Thank you. Dear Representative Miomir Zuzul, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72542	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm not from Istria as you all know, but I am from the university. And maybe that's why it's going to sound a little different than some before, but I'd like to point out right now that I am of all heart supporting the establishment of the University of Pula and I think there are a whole series of reasons. However, I was a little worried about some of the reasons that my colleague Cain gave in his speech, and I'm sorry he's gone, but I believe he'll hear it. I hope it is only a lapus when he said the Istrian university because it is the University of Pula founded by the Croatian Government and it is a Croatian university like all other state universities in Croatia. Apparently, it wasn't a lapus when he was talking about bilingualism. It is another problem but the state universities in Croatia obviously need to be in Croatian. In doing so, I immediately say I'm not advocating any kind of exclusion. Moreover, I am a little worried about seeing some colleagues when they are too insistent on the region of the university because, as counterpart Madden said earlier, not 200 of the best universities in the world, but a list of 500 of the best universities in the world published by the Financial Times and there are no Croatian universities. List 500, I have now watched on the Internet was published for 2005, 2006, and there is not a single Croatian university on it. List 200 for Europe, there are no Croatian universities on it. How are we gonna get on that list? With the development of competitiveness and competence between universities. When you look at the 100, 200 or 500 list, when you look at the best universities, you will see that among other things one of the rating criteria is so-called. It's a diversion. How many students do they have from other parts? Why? Because it contributes to the quality of the university. I would be very happy that at the University of Pula there will be students from Dubrovnik, Osijek, regardless of what universities are probably about the same quality there, and it will be the opposite, of course it will be dominant students from the region for financial or economic reasons, but let us not be fooled, for educational reasons, for scientific reasons, for as many students from different parts of the university as possible, so if you want and from abroad, it raises the quality of the university. There was also talk of frames and there was talk of, I think, I think, even though I'm not a member of that committee, that it was spoken as even as a problem to mention whether there were enough teachers in the area, whether there were enough teachers in Pula. Again, if we go back to that list of 100, 200 or 500 of the best, completely wrong. None of the first hundred universities in the world are based solely on home teachers, because that way high school classes cannot be promoted, just the other way around. Of course you should have a core, because if you don't have a core, no institution can function, and certainly not a university. But the more professors, university workers from other parts of the core, the better and faster you're actually going to enter that competition that we're talking about, the only way you're going to guarantee quality. Again, so you don't get me wrong. It is clear that the university can, must and should be an engine of the development of a region and I am convinced that the University of Pula will be an additional engine of development of Istria, but not because it will be a narrow regional university because if it turns out to be, then it will turn into a political bickering object, which should not be, and what I am almost more concerned about will not meet what is very nice in this law and the description of the law, which is quality and competence. And once again, Mr. Secretary of State spoke at the beginning of saying commendably about the project, which I agree with for it to be a small university. Let's go back to the 100, 200 or 500 best universities. The vast majority on that list are so-called. Little universities. Princeton, where I had the privilege of working for a while, has been ranked as number one in America for years, has a total of four and a half thousand students, meaning by quality a very large university. So, we don't need to share universities in large and small, but we need to enable them to compete, because again we can't forget that by entering the European Union we are entering a global competence, a global market as well as a university, and I am personally convinced that exactly the small, flexible universities as described and I am convinced and I hope that this university in Pula will be, too, I can enter that competence. Although I was also a professor and proded at the University of Zagreb for years, Zagreb University and such a large and huge university can hardly be the bearers of this type of progress. And it's probably one of the reasons why there are no more than 500 of them, probably even among 1,000, although when you look at the quality of individual studies and the quality of students coming out of these universities, you come up with an absurd situation and nobody in the world slows down, that extraordinary staffs come out of Zagreb University, that you have a whole series of professors around the world. But the organization, the structure and the size of the university prevents him from entering this global competition with another. So again, for these I would say more academic reasons but with also I would say a lot of enthusiasm I will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72543	Thank you. Replica, Honored Representative Milan Meden.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72544	Here with a critical replica, I'm actually going to refer to the words of the distinguished Assembly representative Zuzul. Namely, research... was conducted according to parameters how quickly students managed to find a new job, what kind of salary and status they have, what is the connection of the university, what is the duration of the study, the number of languages that students serve and what is the amount of tuition. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Namely, they found only one parameter in which the Faculty of Economics is equal to other European universities, which is the price. So the price... It's the only parameter and I'm going to go up to what you mentioned, which is what Agent Cain said about the Istrian university, I believe it's a lapus that happens to him often, but I'm going to quote what the mayor said, so his party boss, the fact in Vesnik yesterday, is the fact that at the time of the government of Ivo Sanader that we got it, says the Trade Court, which wasn't done during the previous government, was founded the university, according to the HDZ government, we're critical, but a series of projects were done right during the government, Sanader's government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72545	State Secretary Free Taker. Final review, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72546	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. It's extremely pleasant to be the legislator of a law like this and listen to a debate like this that I've had here today. The team of Minister Primorac, whom I am a member, has long prepared this project and these discussions that are partly being held here, we have passed much more extensively at the time of the debate on the Elaborat for the establishment of a university on the National Council for Higher Education. And to you for information, precisely all the elements that have been mentioned here today, of course many others, have been searched with various aspects in this debate. If you'll let me tell you the grade. We are aware of the numerous shortcomings in the situation that we are starting with today, and we are, we do not imagine that we have ideal circumstances of which we are going. In fact, according to our assessment, we barely met the legal minimum. Barely. Our weakest link in our opinion is not a student standard, although it is a problem that needs to be solved, which we will solve. It's not even an unfinished economic college building, and we'll figure it out. They are not even a professional study that, to an extreme extent today, forms a composition of student programs within it, which is the temporary state of things that can't be longer under the current law than 2010. In this regard, there is also a teaching study which is an extremely weak link in that composition and which we have to strengthen and that is exactly what we are doing. Our weakest link is the scientific component of that study, and we are aware of that. We could go to an alternative to set up a university in Pula. We think that would be wrong. We're you know, the government has established five universities in its regulations in the last year, four, five of them is about to be in Slavonski Brod. We think we still have the strength to make this step. This and your discussion today further obliges us in the ministry to strengthen above all this scientific, therefore the scientific and teaching component without which the university cannot satisfy the basic that specific minimum characteristic of every university, even if it is the more modest kind of university so-called. theacheng universality and we'd like it to be competitive so capable... University, so a little bit by size and a big university by influence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, not just Istria and I would say not only for Croatian protection. And even this, the objective measure of our success will not, of course, be that we ourselves think about this project, or even the principle of diversity spoken of by the distinguished representative Zuzul. I think objective criteria will be each other and that is mobility, mobility as many students enrolled from other universities in Croatia and outside of it want some colleges or some study year to end up at that university because they will evaluate it to enrich its study programme as part of a European network of study and university programmes. Now, in that sense I say our expectations are high, maybe we'll succeed at least because the university according to its gauges is a formal little, so maybe the way to this success is easier, it's really easier to do it in small than at a big university. And last sentence, if the scale we're talking about here today refers to some parts of Zagreb University, some colleges and some study programs within it, and not only of Zagreb, and of Rijeka and Split, and of Osijek I'm absolutely sure that some of those parts would be found on those lists. This shows quite certainly the elements that contain these studies and these colleges as parts of these universities. Once again thanks to you for your contribution with special attention we will review phonograms and manage your ideas in further building the project, of course assuming that the proposal is accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72547	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with point 6. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between Croatia and the European Community on the Smart Energy Programme in Europe. After that, we go back to point 10. The decision to amend the decision on the order and dynamics of privatisation of INA, to give consent. And after point 10 at point 19, further in sequence according to other points. The session was interrupted at 19.03 hours. Final draft law establishing the University of Pula. The amendment was submitted by representatives Lino Cervar and Milan Meden. State Secretary Free Taker.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72549	Mr. President, the amendment is fully accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-28-0.u72550	Thank you very much. Amendment accepted. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. What's wrong with your colleague? The result? With 83 votes for, 1 abstention, passed the final bill.
