ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55334	Thank you very much, Mr. President. From the moment of its establishment, colleagues and colleagues have been facing two major difficulties throughout the work. The first comes from the very task the Committee of Parliament has received. Namely, point 3. The decision to set up is said among other things that the Commission must establish all the illegalities caused by the action of the former Minister for Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction, or the President of the Croatian Parliament, and now representatives of the Croatian Parliament Radiir Cacic and Zlatko Tomcic. As it is quite clear to everyone visible to the Commission, it is not required to establish possible illegalities. That is to say, whether illegality was at all or was it not? But it is clear to the Commission that it must establish illegality. Such a defined task has been pursued by some members of the Committee at all costs and has made it very difficult for the Commission to work impartially and ultimately lead to separate opinions in formulating the conclusions. The opinion of the Committee of Mr Jose Radosa is thus set out by the finding that the Commission was an expression of the political will of the ruling majority that turned into political violence. But the debate that follows will certainly bring interesting points of view. The second major difficulty encountered by the Commission in its work is the fact that the Government of the Republic or the Ministry to which the requested documentation was sent to the dropper. The Commission sent 5 requests to the authorities of the State Administration during its work, but not all requested documentation was submitted to the Commission after that. Part of the documentation that was not delivered by the authorities of the State Administration was handed over to the Commission by Mrs Alenka Kosisa Chicin-Shain, and part of the documentation by Mr Ljudevit Herceg, who came to the Commission as a witness. The most unusual thing is that the authorities of the government and the ministries of the individual government and, more than once, the documents required to confirm the legality of the conduct of the Commission were delivered only after it was known that they had been handed over to the Commission by witnesses. When it became clear that such documents could no longer be hidden in government drawers. The very fact that after the testimony, the testimony was found and delivered to the Commission proves that in the archives of the Government existed before, and this development of Mr. Jozo Rados led to the conclusion expressed in one of his separate opinions that the government was deliberately making the work of the Commission difficult by failing to provide essential documents. This view could support the fact that the latest documentation requested in the Commission's service arrived on 18 August 2005 in the afternoon only 6 days before the deadline in which the Commission was obliged to complete its work. All of this has created yet another difficulty in the work. In fact, the lack of documents to be delivered to the Commission by the state authorities forced the Commission to amend its opinion on certain contracts which were analysed i.e. that it first concludes that these contracts are not concluded in accordance with the Law because, for example, there is no decision on the establishment of an expert commission or any other important document, and subsequently that the documentation has come to change its original conclusion and finds that these, first of all, in the conclusions of the Committee, are disputed contracts actually concluded in full compliance with the rules in force. This may best be seen from the opinion of the court expert on finance and bookkeeping of Mr Zrinko Ručević, who says: On the basis of the documentation submitted and as described more closely in the previous day, it is concluded that most of the legal transactions in question are concluded after the conduct of the entire prescribed procedure. Since no documentation has been submitted showing for certain legal transactions the implementation of all the intended stages in the procurement process may be concluded that in some cases there has been a derogation from the envisaged procedural course. For these cases, the Committee could not determine whether there were missing documents somewhere in the government archives, only the Government would not deliver them to the Commission, as many others did not, after 5 queries, but were brought to the Commission only by called witnesses, or those documents never really existed. Due to all of the above, the Committee proposes to the Croatian Parliament to oblige the Government of the Republic of Croatia to establish the reasons why the authorities of the state administration have not submitted the documents to the Commission and to submit this report to the Croatian Parliament. The commission president's duty requires me to warn all my fellow MPs that he will find in this report a separate opinion of the Committee member, Mr Piplovic, in which he sees problems in the work of the Commission differently. But it is also my duty to warn me that all the conclusions that the government was asked to deliver, on five occasions, the documents requested, as well as those which were found not to be delivered by the Government, were brought to the Committee unanimously, hence by the voice of Mr Piplojic. As well as the fact that Mr Piploić voted in favour of the overall report, which includes the proposal for a measure towards the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which actually means that in his own opinion, Mr Piploić is polymising with his own opinion five times expressed during the Commission's work and in his opinion expressed in accepting the overall report. But in that, as you will later see, you will not be left alone. But enough about the difficulties in work. Let's move on to what we're founded for. So, let's go to the board's findings. The commission has examined the "Capital Ing" case, partly owned by Mr. Zlatko Tomcic, and especially by companies linking the name of Mr. Radiir Cacic. For Mr. Tomčić and the Capital Ing, the Commission unanimously concluded that Mr. Zlatko Tomcic, the owner of the basic role in the Capital Ing, amounting to 8 thousand and 300 kuna or 22%, has been reported neatly in his property card. That all contracts with the authorities were signed by Mr Davor Plenkovic, the director of Capital Ing, and in the ministries for those authorized. That all expert committees were appointed by law by a resolute minister to whom they were again in charge of their work. That Capital Ing did not conclude contracts with legal persons owned by the Republic of Croatia and that it concluded 52 with state authorities, i.e. the ministries of 2 000 394, representing 0.23% of the value of the total contracts concluded. That part of the contract "Capital Ing" concluded with the ministries was concluded according to then applicable regulations. That part of the contract cannot be determined with certainty, because there is no documentation missing, whether because the ministries were not obliged to keep them, or because the competent authorities did not provide the requested documentation, which I spoke of at the beginning of the presentation. That two contracts are not fully concluded with the applicable regulations, and finally, that the Commission cannot conclude that Mr. Tomcic has favoured the company "Capital Ing" in the procedures of concluding a contract with the authorities of the state administration. All these conclusions were reached unanimously. When making a special conclusion on the four contracts the company Capital Ing concluded with the Ministry of Health, the Commission split. All members of the Committee agreed that the conclusion on this subject must contain a correct description of the situation, i.e. correspondence between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction. However, four members of the parliamentary majority committee did not agree to this conclusion and a brief presentation of the testimony of the witnesses who spoke before the Committee. I note that the decision to call these witnesses to the Committee was unanimously made, that their testimony was also accepted unanimously in the Committee, and that there were no proposals to invite any other witnesses on the subject. However, four members of the Committee do not accept that the testimony of the witnesses examined comes to the conclusion of the Committee. As a result, you have the first conclusion in the full report, related to point 3, indent 6, adopted by the majority of votes, and without delay an opinion of three members of the Committee from the ranks of the parliamentary minority, which is extended by showing the testimony of the examined witnesses. So much for Mr. Tomcic and Capital Ing. With four companies listed in the founding decision, which connects with Mr. Radiir Cacic's name, the Commission had more problems. The Court of Commerce and Trade Court's collections did not provide a reliable answer to the question of ownership structure, so the Commission hired an authorised court expert in the area of finance, accounting and accounting of Mr Zrinko Ručević and entrusted him with the task of accounting for the environment of individual ownership in commercial societies. The Commission unanimously accepted the findings of a court expert who said that Mr Radimir Cacic and his wife, Mary, were not the owners of the shares, i.e. the business stakes in the companies listed in the decision to set up the Investigation Commission, but they have a number of related companies, all of which are shown in this report in a scheme. The Commission also asked the experts for other skills, under the circumstances of the conclusion of the contract, the appointment of expert commissions and the conclusion of a contract for 4 companies in the founding decision. On the basis of the documentation collected, the expert made a detailed analysis, but as I have already said, the conclusions already reached on certain contracts should have been changed during the work of the Committee, because some documents both the expert and the Commission thought did not exist, because they were never even drawn up to the Commission by witnesses, and some later came from the Government. Finally, however, the analysis showed that four observed companies with state authorities and legal entities owned by the Republic of Croatia contracted a total of 63 contracts during the observed period. That the value of all the contracted works that the ministries had concluded during the observed period with the four observed companies represents 2,65 % of the total contract value. That all contracts, on behalf of the state authorities, were concluded by law by law on behalf of the authorised persons. That expert committees were appointed in legal ways. That for 2 contracts, we cannot determine whether they were concluded under then applicable regulations, because the authorities of the State Administration did not provide all requested documentation to the Commission, and that 5 contracts were not concluded under then applicable regulations. Some of these 5 contracts and irregularities in them will find two more separate opinions in the report. One Mr. Rados, who is perfectly understood because, in his vote, Mr. Radoš remained in the minority, and logically contributed his own opinion. The second opinion was given by Mr Tomljanovic, Piploic and Markovanovic. It, however, represents a small precedent in the history of decision-making. Namely, as is known, the commission consisted of seven MPs, four of whom were from the parliamentary majority and without whose consent, the Commission could not reach a single conclusion. This means that the official conclusions of the Committee on this issue were also supported by Mr Tomljanovic, Piplovic and Markovanovic, because they could not even become an integral part of the official report. And yet although they voted for them at committee meetings and thus accepted them, gentlemen of the text that they themselves voted to submit a separate opinion, i.e. They shall submit an individual opinion on their own opinion. The task of the President of the Committee should be to explain at the plenary session how and why the report raises isolated opinions that the President of the Committee cannot do with his best wishes, because it is impossible for him to explain something he does not understand. This brings us to perhaps the most important point on which the Commission should have decided whether Mr. Cacic had taken advantage of the conclusion of the business with four companies with which he had a ownership relationship. In this important question, the Committee has divided. Four members of the Committee adopted the conclusion that contracts as legal transactions were concluded between companies owned by the state official of Mr Radiir Cacic, then Minister of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction on the one hand and the Ministry of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction of the Republic of Croatia, on the other hand, representing the same person by law, points to the bargaining relationship in the process of concluding the contracts in question. The eligibility ratio shall result from the ownership and the rights and obligations arising from the ownership structure of companies and shall not be included in the granting of powers to represent persons in relation to subordination, and shall correspond to that of the same State official Radiir Cacic, the minister responsible for all tasks, preparation and implementation of the procurement and implementation of the social housing programme. This conclusion, voted by the majority, has become the official conclusion of the Commission. The opinion given by Commissioner Jozo Radoš, who considers that the settlement conclusion was reached without any justification because no preliminary conclusion was reached during the work of the Commission at any point in time. The very fact that Mr. Radimir Cacic was Minister at the Ministry of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction, with which companies he owned, made deals, did not come to the conclusion of a plea. This fact was also known before the establishment of the Committee and the main motive for its establishment. The commission had to prove that this fact led to a guess that the Commission did not establish Mr Rados. Finally, the chairman of the Committee of Nenad Stazic and Mrs Ljubica Lalić's member in relation to the question of favoration by Mr Radiir Cacic, gave their own opinion, holding that after the analysis, the documentation and examination of the witnesses could not be determined that Mr Radimir Cacic had favored the companies with which he had owned himself. However, according to Stazic and Lalic, we are aware of the fact that Mr Radimir Cacic, during the observed period, was a state official, and at the same time through the related companies "Coning Group" and part-time and co-owner of those companies that concluded contracts with the authorities of the state administration, as well as the ministry to which Mr Cacic was minister, so we refer to the proposal for a measure of one of this report. And so we come up with a proposal for measures adopted by the majority of votes and on which there are no separate alternative proposals, which therefore represent the official position of the Commission and which the Committee proposes to the Parliament to accept. The first measure obliges the Government to prepare and submit to the Parliament, within six months, amendments and additions to the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in which companies in which any official or associated person has any ownership, cannot enter into contracts with state bodies and legal persons owned by the Republic of Croatia, local and regional self-government units and legal persons owned by them. Since this commission was not authorised to decide on the possible existence of a conflict of interest for officials Zlatko Tomčić and Radiir Cacic, this is proposed by measure two of this report, as well as all the documents collected to be sent to the competent Commission for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests for Continued Conduct. I spoke of the third measure at the beginning of our report, and it is obliged by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to establish the reasons why the authorities of the State Administration did not provide the documents to the Commission, that is, the reasons why they were late with the delivery of the documents and to submit a report to the Croatian Parliament within 90 days. Now, ladies and gentlemen, it would be a summary of the work and the findings of this committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55335	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Frano Piploić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55336	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to correct two of the more incorrect allegations of a distinguished colleague of the Stazic. The first refers to his findings when he said that some wanted to establish crime all along. It's not true, we've been trying all along to determine the facts, and if anything is criminal, it's determined by another body. The second thing, an esteemed colleague mentioned my own opinion and said that I disagreed with my own opinion especially when the final conclusions were made. My separate opinion, dear colleague, applies in the way of work, refers to the opening part of this report, and therefore is not the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55337	Second correction, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55338	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. So here's a series of incorrect things that Mr. Stazic put out, and they actually best outline the conditions in which we worked for six months, and that the government was deliberately hiding in the drawers the documentation, and that it was subsequently brought by a colleague of Chicin-Shain. So it should be said that the ministry broke down, previously the Ministry of Reconstruction, Construction and Public Works as it was called, broke into several ministries, that the documentation was everywhere, and colleague Chicin-Shain knew best, because her people remained in those ministries, where the documentation was and was easy to come by. And I still have to say it's about insignificant documents that are actually not even mentioned here in this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55339	Thank you very much. You will present all of this and the members of the Committee and the representatives and clubs through the debate, because these are different opinions, views, proposals, measures. We're going to, I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55340	Dear Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I would like to remind, at the beginning of the presentation on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, that, when submitting a proposal for a Decision establishing an Investigation Commission for the determination of facts in connection with concluded contracts between state bodies and companies owned or partly owned by officials, it is primarily kept in mind whether there is a public interest, i.e. whether the establishment of this committee is in the public interest, and in accordance with the provisions of Article 2(2) on investigative committees, which clearly defines that it is the achievement of the fundamental values of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, that it is a matter of public interest, then a question of fundamental rights and freedoms of man and citizen, and in particular in this introductory part, I stress, and in particular the legality of the work of state bodies and public services as well as of the legal persons of public law. In this regard, it is very important to emphasise, and not only for the sake of this debate but also for the public, that the Commission of Investigation had not only the task of establishing the elements of convenience. In that regard, did the state officials only favor the companies in question already have to establish the Commission: First, did there have to be an illegality or breach of the principle of public morality? Second, were government officials the owners or part owners of these companies? Third, the legality of all contracts concluded with all elements of illegality? Fourth, the names of the people who have concluded these and such contracts? Fifth, who appointed the expert commission under the Public Procurement Act and whom was the commission responsible for its work? Sixth, did government officials please those companies in the procedures of such contracts? And seven, all other relevant facts. The fact is that in the last term Mr. Zlatko Tomcic acted as President of the Croatian Parliament, and he was also a participant in the established capital of the company "Capital Ing d.o.o." from Zagreb with 22% expressed as a percentage, therefore, by share. "Capital Ing d.o.o." Therefore, with the authorities of the state authorities, he concluded 52 contracts in that period of time, and the value of all contracts, although it can be expressed as a percentage, although it can be expressed as a percentage I will express in kuna, amounts to 12 million kuna. More than 12 million kunas. From the total number of contracts with 11 contracts, 11 contracts could not be established as they were concluded in accordance with then applicable regulations because the commission did not come into possession of documentation or corresponding documentation, and the bodies in which that documentation was kept by law were therefore not obliged to keep it. 2 of the contracts were found not to be in conformity with the legal regulations applicable at the time, and for 4 contracts, the commission could not be sure whether they were concluded in accordance with the laws and regulations in force at the time, as all the documents requested were not delivered to the Commission. However, it is important to note that when a contract was concluded with the Ministry of Health, there was a good guess and it is written in the materials, even in this shortened part. Because during 2001, the Ministry of Health sent a letter to the Ministry of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction asking for a recommendation, I repeat for a recommendation for companies that could successfully supervise them. The Ministry of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction recommended only one company that would supervise, which was Capital Ing. It is evident that after that, the Ministry of Health sent a letter to Capital Ingu asking that those projects be sent an offer that Capital Ing as a company and did. And after that, of the five projects mentioned above, there were contracts. Regardless of the amount of these jobs, it is important that the Ministry of Public Works or in this sense of convenience is important that the Ministry of Public Works recommended only one company, which was Capital Ing. Furthermore, in the past term, Mr Radimir Cacic acted as Minister of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction, and also with his wife, Mrs Maria Cacic, was the majority owner of the companies "Coning Alpha d.o.o.", therefore, society with limited responsibility. "Coning Alpha d.o.o." participates in the core capital "Coninga d.d.", therefore, stock companies with 55.15%, and also "Coning Alpha" has a majority stake in "Coning Ecology d.d." and share in "Coning project d.d."and in "Coning engineering d.d.". So, all 3 companies as stock companies. "Coning d.d." has its stakes in the "Coning project", then "Coning ecology d.d.", at the Urbanist Institute of the City of Zagreb and "Coning engineering d.d."and in the company "Congama d.d." has a majority stake. Mr. Radimir Cačić and Mrs. Marija Cacic also share in "Coning project d.d."and especially through "Coning Ecology d.d." and in the company "Coneco d.o.o.". Although on 25 February 2000 they concluded a agreement on the transfer of shares between Mr. Radiir Cacic and Mrs. Marija Cacic to Ratko Žurić from the lawyer's office Žurić and partners, the same year, so, 29.12.2000, shares and shares were transferred back to the ownership of Mr. Radiir Cacic and Mrs. Marija Cacic. From which it is apparent that the former minister, Mr Radimir Cacic and his wife were co-owners through the observed time period of these companies, and as indicated in the expert or artificial findings which is also an integral part of this Report. "Coning engineering d.d.", "Congama d.d.", "Coneco d.o.o." and the Urbanist Institute of the City of Zagreb have concluded a total of 63 agreements worth an eye, we can express in percent, I will say the nominal amount in kunas, 225 million 614 thousand and 956 kuna. In a period of four years. 56 contracts are concluded in accordance with the laws and regulations in force now, 5 contracts are not concluded in accordance with the applicable legal provisions, and for 2 contracts, the commission could not determine with certainty whether they were concluded in accordance with the laws and regulations currently in force, because the authorities of the State administration did not provide appropriate or requested documentation in due time. However, an analysis of contracts that are not concluded under the law shows a harsh violation of the legal provisions. On 4.8.2003, 4 contracts were concluded with the company Coning Engineering worth 6 million 927 kuna, and that only 2 months after the contract was concluded, I repeat 2 months after the contract was concluded by the Ministry of Finance, the procurement board came up with a solution which gives prior consent to the application of the procurement procedure by competition in a limited procurement procedure. The question is how it is possible to carry out the whole procurement process, to conclude contracts without the competent authority issuing a solution to which the procurement procedure can be even started. Furthermore, it is important to note that, on that same day, two contracts with Capital Ing were concluded on the basis of that procurement procedure, but that these are not the only contracts that were concluded, therefore, on that day, on that date. As part of its mission, the Commission analysed the work of those 5 companies owned by officials, and on that day, the Ministry agreed on jobs under the programme of socio-encouraging housing with a much larger number of companies which are not subject to the work of this commission, and all these contracts are clearly not concluded or concluded in accordance with the law and then applicable regulations. When this is projected on a very specific or specific legal business or considering the overall public procurement process and the signing of contract No 06-42-G-60777/01, I note this because you can easily monitor the report, as of 28 June 2001, the following is visible. First, the contract was concluded with the company "Congama" d.d. the remaining 10 bidders were eliminated even though they were known, i.e. they should have known that the bidder had no capacity to perform at least 51% of the offered works. Secondly, the most important element of the illegality of this contract is found in the fact that here there are two basic contracts made and signed and certified on the same day and by the same persons of which one is literally... Paragraph 2 of Article 7 is an obvious falsification and this is a deleted or deleted provision of the Construction Treaty, a provision governing the system or system of construction by system, hence the key in hand. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Third, according to the overall public tendering procedure and... the basic contract did not have any legal person to sign the add-on to the contract, in particular through the presentation of the procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The whole procedure not only has not been implemented in accordance with the law, here I am talking about this particular contract, a concrete relationship, and I think you can see and monitor it and analyze it from the report submitted. There have been severe violations of the rules governing the matter in question, and the fact is that through the whole procedure there have been two basic contracts, one of which is obviously a falsification, is the most severe violation of the law and an unequivocal basis for criminal and legal liability. This contract is the most recent example of law enforcement, and it may represent in this regard and paints how the contracts were conducted and signed in that segment. If this is added to the fact that contracts, therefore as legal transactions concluded between companies owned by a state official and on the one hand, are then Minister of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction of the Republic of Croatia, so between the companies and the ministry represented by the same person under the law really points to the bargaining relationship in the process of concluding the contracts in question, although I will now return to the beginning, the very element of bargaining was one of the 7 points or tasks in terms of whether or not it was a favor or a duty or mission or a commission task which was based on the decision of this High House as a commission was required to establish. It is true that the terms of the bargaining here come from the ownership of the legal powers and the rights and obligations that the ownership structure of the companies is arising from and cannot be called upon, indeed, to give rise to the concession of the powers to represent persons who are in relation to the subordination and, more importantly, to point out, and for their work corresponds to that same state official, therefore the minister responsible for all the preparation and implementation of public procurement procedures as well as the implementation of the social incentive housing programme. Finally, as a very important documentation in terms of monitoring and work of the Research Commission and all these tasks that the Research Commission had, it is also important to look at the findings of the state audit for 2003 that I have here, and I don't think it needs to be read because it is precisely the essence of this finding that points to relations not only of convenience but of illegality, non-compliance with the procedure, in the end of a work that we can characterise in this sense as a work that was not in accordance with the law. Finally, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will propose to the Croatian Assembly the conclusion that the full documentation is collected in the work of the commission and the conclusions as well as the measures proposed by the proposal will be referred to the State Attorney's office for further action.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55341	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Željko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55342	Thank you very much. I am correcting a warrant that is actually a fundamental foothold for what is being said, according to the Commission's findings, that is, the predecessor's comment on "Capital Ing" and Zlatko Tomcic's "Capital Ing". Namely, it is claimed that the recommendation was a bargain. It is true that the Ministry of Public Works made a recommendation to the Ministry of Health that the company Capital Ing could do a good job, but also that the company "Capital Ing" after that recommendation was given a job through public tendering and public offerings. That's true, and what the predecessor said is incorrectly that it could be a recommendation for bargaining.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55343	Thank you. And another correction, respected representative Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55344	I'm also correcting the quote of a colleague who claimed that there was a hit at the Ministry of Health. That is simply not true, because a colleague did not give complete information but rather a partial one that would allow such innuendo. It should be added that, on the basis of this recommendation, the choice was made in accordance with the law and that the election "Capital Ing" had become one of the companies that had been overseeing. Until then, the only company that had been overseen by the Ministry of Health until 2000 was the "APZ" from Zagreb. It's obvious someone was distracted by a broken monopoly.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55345	The HNS club, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55346	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Before referring to the content of the report or opinion and the findings of the Commission itself, allow a little chronology to be reminded, it was a long time ago and I feel it is necessary to remind all of you in the hall. The formation of this Commission of Investigation to deal with alleged illegalities in the work of then state officials, and later parliamentary representatives of counterparts Cacic and Tomcic, followed our initiative from the Croatian People's Party's Club on the formation of an investigative commission that was only one thing to determine, which is how to acquire the property of counterparts Zuzul and Prime Minister Sanader. As a counter-response, the Croatian Democratic Community came up with a proposal for this and this Commission of Investigation, and I must say that we expected about that kind of move. In the meantime, there was also an offer for a settlement that we would both, and then the other, so both points would fall out of the agenda and neither of the other investigation committee would be formed, there were intermediaries in these bids and our proposal fell out of the agenda because there was a withdrawal of part of the signatories of the initiative. And yet, this investigation committee has been formed. What we have proposed is not, and in our debate and vote, we have supported the formation of this investigative committee, we have supported the extension of the deadline in three months only in order to finally establish Parliament's truth and to really stop these discussions. After three months of work, the commission requested an extension of the deadline. The commission finished their work eight months ago and let's see what the commission gave the Parliament. I remind you, we've given this committee six assignments. First, was Col. Cacic then the minister of Coning Engineering, Congame, Coneco and the City of Zagreb Urbanist Institute. Secondly, the legality of the contracts that these companies concluded with the state, the third who concluded the contracts, the fourth who appointed the expert commissions to conduct the competition, the fifth whether Minister Cacic had guessed in his companies, and the sixth all other relevant and relevant facts. It was the commission's task given by parliament. And what, after six months of work, eight months of waiting for the investigative committee to determine. First assignment, about ownership. The Commission has established and established on the basis of the findings of the court expert that counterpart Cacic and his wife were not the owners of companies for which an investigative commission was established during the observed period. They weren't the owners. However, they were part owners of other companies that are linked to these companies. But it does not say and it is not mentioned that even in those other companies that were linked to the companies that were to be subject to the investigation commission, Col. Cacic had no management rights. Why does it matter? Under the 1996 law, a state official who owned the company had to transfer ownership and management rights to another person what counterpart Cacic had done. Later, there was an amendment to the law imposing on the public official that governing rights had to be transferred to another person. The investigation committee found this in December 2000, does not state that this was the result of the amendment of the law and that former counterpart Cacic had transposed both ownership and management rights under that old law. How did this fact of amending the law in the observed investigation period miss most members of the investigative committee and fail to find that this transfer or return of ownership shares was actually by letter of law, which is very important to me. What are the conclusions of the commission? So, Coning engineering, Congama, Coneco, Urbanist Institute of the City of Zagreb Mr. Radimir Cačić and his wife had no management rights or ownership over these companies. They had ownership stakes in the other two companies that were linked to them but had no management rights. This was obviously not satisfactory because it did not refer or allow the final work of the commission to be as political motive, and therefore the commission finds the basis for the findings of the court expert and the following. I quote on page 19 of the summary document: "On the basis of the documentation submitted and as described more recently in the previous report, it is concluded that most of the legal transactions in question are concluded after the implementation of the whole prescribed procedure" and that "No documentation has been submitted from which certain legal acts would show the implementation of the envisaged stages in the public procurement process", please note now "it may be concluded that in some cases a derogation from the envisaged procedural course has occurred". Therefore, the prosecutor did not provide the court with documents and evidence and find the defendant guilty because he could be found guilty. I think Barry and Jagoda were apprentices compared to this conclusion and Machiavelli could be an intern in these findings. There were no documents and it can be concluded that it was not in accordance with the law. This is the finding of an expert expert who accepted the commission by the majority of the votes. How's the six-point job done? First assignment of property. Unquestionably, the four companies under observation were not owned by colleagues Cacic and his wife, that in the other two companies, Col. Cacic had no management rights because the Law on the Rights and Obligations of State officials regulated it during that period. Second assignment, legality of the contract. During that period, the Commission found that these companies concluded 63 contracts with the state, that 56 contracts were all within the law, that 5 contracts found elements which could not be called legal and that the Commission had not received the documentation and could not conclude how jobs were done. And in those five that the commission found out were not entirely in line with the law four of them refer to the consent of public procurement by collecting offers while with one and with counterpart Tomljanovic, it was now said that this contract was the key proof of bargaining, and that is the basic motive of this single contract for which the commission did not establish. It has neither initiated the procedure nor carried out the identification of the person responsible by name and last name for the illegality of that one contract. Third assignment, who made the contracts. The investigation committee found that it was all within the law. The fourth task, who appointed the expert commissions to carry out the competitions. The investigation committee found that it was all within the law. Fifth assignment. Did Radimir Cacic hit his companies? Most of the votes, the Commission concluded that the fact of ownership without management rights itself points to bargaining. The very fact of ownership without the management rights points to guessing. Not that it has been proven in a single example, not that it has been proven in any way by whom and by which means the favoring has been done but points to a guess. And it continues: It cannot, therefore, be denied or considered that it was not by the very act of enforcing governing rights. But that's how the law prescribed it back then. That's the kind of law that was worth it. And such a provision on the Law on the Rights of State officials still exists today. And that's exactly how the law regulates it. That it is the obligation of government officials to transfer management rights, not ownership. The Commission of Investigation does not propose to amend that provision in the Law. It stays and goes on. And when we accept these conclusions, it will still be. What's this about? The proposed measures, therefore, after 6 months of working hard, open, difficult Committee, give us the next proposal for a measure. First, by amending the law that only property is the reason that this company can't make deals with the state. Acceptable as a whole. But this is the subject of the Law on the Rights and Obligations of State officials. Not the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. Either, or putting aside the law on the rights and obligations of state officials. We need to be consistent and whole. Secondly, the Committee proposes to the Croatian Parliament to reach a conclusion that the report on the work with the proposal of measures and all collected documentation is referred to the Assembly Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. When the point was on the agenda, that's exactly what we suggested. That the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest takes the subject, the objects and solves the matter. Most of them didn't accept it then. Now it's being referred to the Committee. Why don't we just say state's attorney? Why don't you jump? Why not the judiciary? And a third. The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to establish the reasons why the authorities of the state administration have not submitted the documentation? Can you imagine the situation? That the authorities of the state administration refuse to provide documentation to an investigative committee that cannot determine the truth because there is no such documentation and therefore is not the government responsible but the government has to determine who is guilty? And how is it that the very part of the documentation that illuminated things couldn't come or came only when from other sources appeared in the work of the Research Commission. And finally. Is the acceptance and discussion of this report of the Investigative Commission an end? It's not. No, it's not. This story will continue because parliamentary elections are close. And since 1992, before every election, the stories have been repeated. There'll be something else. Because there's nothing in the judiciary's body that we can do, and then we're going to try to figure out this kind of political way with political opponents. And finally. Our colleague, Jozo Radoš, was part of the Investigative Commission. In the last days of the Commission's work and voting in the conclusions and key decisions that he was not present or that he did not accept these conclusions, the Commission could not make a decision. Then we'd be accused of obstructing and blocking the work and disabling the Commission's conclusions. He stayed present. He voted you, these conclusions. To come here. That's what principle, honesty, and desire to finally establish the truth is all about. He could and we could. And we haven't blocked the work or left the sessions or the votes for these conclusions. That's what you need to know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55347	Thank you. Honorable representative William Herman, correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55348	Mr. President-in-Office Lesar said at one point that Barry and Jagoda had outdone them or that they had been overcome. That's an incorrect quote. Namely, the exact assumption could be that it's Visinski. And I think that really, with success in the Committee, they outsmarted Vishinski, who is the famous state attorney of the Soviet Union, on principle, it's you, it's your fault, and then prove you're not guilty. It's so-called. Inquisitor principle and it could be said that this principle of inquisition... This commission. [[The speaker is not understood because of the presidential bell.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55349	On behalf of the Committee, Member of the Commission Emil Tomljanović. Here you go. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Stazic. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55350	Your Honor, I don't see any way for all the members of the committee to speak on behalf of the Committee because we're going to create a mess here. On behalf of the Committee may be spoken by the President of the Committee, possibly a member of the Committee but I suppose in agreement with the President of the Committee and with his, in, with his authority. We'll make a mess.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55351	Unfortunately for the rapporteur on behalf of the Research Commission on the work of the Croatian Parliament and its working bodies, the president and members of the Committee are appointed. It's an investigative committee headed with you and signed and proposed. That the work of the Parliament and its working bodies, on behalf of the Research Commission, will be attended by both the President and the members of the Committee. Here you go, Mr. Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55352	Thank you, Mr. President. Since there are no business barriers, I would briefly refer to the presentation of the esteemed, esteemed colleague Lesar, who is commenting on the conclusions or proposals of the measures proposed, we have them on page 26 and 27 of this work material. With him, he personally agreed with the club's position especially when he asked and why not submit the documentation to the State's Attorney's office? And why don't you deliver the paperwork to BUSKOK? I absolutely support it, and I even suggest as a member of the Committee that point 4 is added behind point 3 and that it is explicitly and accurately written exactly what you have suggested. So that all documents, especially on these disputed contracts with all the findings of the experts, with all the conclusions and the proposal for measures, are delivered to the State's attorney for further action and, of course, to the USKOK. Here's the president for a little while... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55353	Thank you. Now the SDP club, respected representative Ivo Josipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55354	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to remind you that when the SDP club was being discussed on the establishment of the Investigative Commission, it was against the Investigative Commission and that, at least if the investigation committees were set up, it wanted to have the same criterion when setting up the Research Commission. I would like to remind you that at the same time, it was proposed that the Commission be set up both in relation to the Prime Minister and that the majority, the parliamentary majority, rejected such a proposal, which clearly recognised the different criteria in the formation of investigative committees. And then we said that the investigative committee that was founded by political will and the application of political will in different ways cannot enjoy the public's trust and cannot accomplish that function which is otherwise intended for this institution. We also warned, and I warn again, that the task given to the Research Commission in principle is possible to subdue under general, general conditions for the establishment of its investigation committee, but that there are serious dilemmas about it. Because if we look at a little bit of an analysis of the tasks that have been given, most of them refer to certain factual allegations, very simple factual allegations that can be verified by simple insight into the documentation, but that all these requirements to determine are actually two key requirements. It is to establish the legality of the contract and the fact that there was a advantage. It is these two findings that are a couple of excellences from the jurisdiction of the judiciary, from the jurisdiction of the courts. And our point of view was that these things that are specifically placed in the jurisdiction of the judiciary should not be discussed by a representative body, the most political body, if you will, in this country, and especially by bodies that are constructed, i.e. made up by the political criteria of the ruling opposition. It is by nature that such a body is not fit to determine those facts that are a matter of justice. I think that certain remarks raised in this report and opinions made it clear that the political commitment of individual members of the Committee had an impact on the work of the Committee. And I also think it will be very clear after the debate that the conclusions offered by individual MPs will be shared by their debates on the party line. And that's why this whole story seems mostly pointless, and that's why the SDP Representatives Club won't be involved at all in this debate. Because it believes that it would first enter the jurisdiction of the judiciary in some way, and the second reason is that if it really is true that there is a lot of crime in there, we really don't get into it, because that's not our jurisdiction, if that's true then the debate in Parliament is a form of influence on the judiciary that we think is inappropriate and we don't want to participate in. Here, that would be brief on our position. As regards the conclusions themselves, i.e. the proposal for measures, they can in themselves be acceptable. But I'd like to point out that in part, at least one wheel has been missed. Why? Because it is acceptable, of course, to consider changing the Law to prevent conflicts of interest. I'd say there are other things in that law that need to be considered very seriously. I think that the public practice that's been going on lately suggests very well, in fact, that in some ways the Commission is being relieved of the senseless confidence of the little things, that it's just focusing on possible major conflicts of interest. Potentially, maybe any of this would be the case. But the Commission's conclusion that the case is being sent to the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest is wrong, wrong. Why? Because that commission for the great majority, or even for everything, is not at all competent. Let's remind ourselves when the law was passed. The law was passed at the end of 2003. Most of these events fall within the time before the law is passed. And by my judgment, it is very easy to happen, or very likely it will happen, I would not want to prejudge, that the Committee does not discuss this matter at all, so it is very easy to conclude that this part of the action will also be a waste of time. So if there's such a reasonable suspicion that there's a crime behind all this, there's the government's authorities, there's a state's attorney, there's the judiciary that let them do it. And colleagues and colleagues, we who are MPs, who are politicians, should not go into questions that are within the jurisdiction of the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55355	Thank you. HSP club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55356	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. A report with a proposal for measures of the Investigation Commission to determine the facts regarding the concluded contracts between state bodies and companies owned or partly owned by state officials cannot be accepted or rejected or taken into account. Why? Because nothing's actually fixed, and the job's not done. Here's the short-sulk of this entire report. Namely, as the work of this commission has begun, so has been completed. Remember that you first agreed on when he would meet and where he would meet. So on behalf of the Croatian Party Club, I asked for the intervention of the President of the Parliament, who is obliged to take care of the implementation of the Croatian Parliament's decisions. And then in the end, they agreed to meet for the first time. And the result of the work is what? What is the result of this investigation committee's work? Where did the members of the Committee agree, or downgrade their work to the smallest common denominator? The answer is nothing. They agreed on nothing. Because these three conclusions where they agreed didn't require an investigative commission. It didn't take the D.A.'s office in general. This could normally have been done by the government and the authorities without an investigative commission. We know ourselves that we've been doing this investigation and we've been extending our work, but we knew from the beginning that there was nothing to it. And because of this, the Croatian Party club refused to give its representative at all in the work of the Research Commission, because we knew that the work would come to nothing, that it would not agree on anything, that all of what they had according to, I will determine that it would not be able to determine what was going to be shared politically, and on the other hand, it was the worst situation that they could not obtain at all the documentation they should have received. And so they agreed about three things that didn't represent anything, the public's been interested in it since February 2005, she thought something would be done, something would be determined, but I'm saying nothing has been determined, and it remains that the work of this commission is nothing at all. Whether they will continue their work or not, obviously they will not, I think that the shaking hills were born nothing, because obviously it was only a policy that was current in all of this, and not the part that needs to be resolved, and I just repeat, I think that everyone already knows that, that our proposal of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, that the Law on Rights and Obligations of Officials has been established on our proposal, that the Law on Public Procurement was, by our proposals, not at all, brought about at all, but could react in a timely manner in the course and procedure for all of this which the Committee should investigate. Therefore, the message has not been established, and today we will be discussing it all day. If we want to do what needs to be done, we change the laws as we have suggested four or five years ago, and then they will be able to act in a timely and preventive manner, not to discuss their opinions, because beware that each of the members of the commission almost gave an opinion, so they stand out about everything, and obviously it was the logic of things that should have been done fairly, professionally and without political influences, and then they would certainly get some results. We're basically HSP's club said that we'll support the work of everyone and the establishment of all investigative committees and that's what we did. Unfortunately, you know that our investigation committee is not supported in this House's mandate to determine the situation with transcripts, with registers and archives, or registers and archive materials. They're not supported and that commission about Helena Pugliz, there were other situations, so we need to make a deal. Is this the law on investigating committees that Croatia needs, certainly but not in this form, so if we need to make that law, where we will determine exactly how and how we work. So there are also good examples of unfortunately in Croatia of all these investigative committees that have existed so far, which have been established so far since the law and acted, they've always found nothing because they've always been politically motivated, trained and politically active, they haven't acted in the sense of how they do it in the United States or other countries developed Western democracies. So today we're going to debate again about nothing, and I don't know what the result is, it would be smarter to deal with citizens' standards, pensioners, workers, defenders and peasants, because we're not going to do anything about this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55357	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55358	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is not the correct quote of the esteemed representative Kovacevic that nothing happened. The Committee undoubtedly found that Mr. Zlatko Tomcic was not in a conflict of interest and that there were no views. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55359	Dear representative Ljubica Lalic, on behalf of the HSS club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55360	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. In accordance with the Decision establishing the Research Commission for the Determination of Facts in connection with the concluded contracts between state bodies and companies owned or partly owned by officials, the Commission has established the facts and is now its report ahead of us. We at the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party supported the establishment of the Committee in order to determine the fact that it would cease unargumented meals, unproved claims, in order to shed light on once and for all the doubts about the illegalities of our colleagues, Mr Radiir Cacic and Zlatko Tomčić. It is a shame that our colleagues from the HDZ Club of Representatives and other clubs of the ruling coalition did not think the same way about the establishment of the Commission, which would examine how Mr. Miomir Zuzul and Prime Minister Ivo Sanader's assets would be acquired. Refusing the establishment of the Commission has left doubts about the illegal or mildest said immoral acquisition and leaving room for doubt to harm the very persons suspected. But that's their choice. In the case of Cacic – Tomčić, the truth has been established despite the difficulties in collecting documentation. The Commission’s task was to determine whether the appointed owners or part-owners of the companies that had been engaged in business for the State, to establish the legality of all contracts concluded with the state bodies or legal persons owned by the Republic of Croatia, who concluded contracts on behalf of the parties contracted, who appointed the expert commission and members of the commission under the Public Procurement Act, and to whom it was responsible for its work. It was particularly important to determine whether the appointed officials were acting as Minister and President of the Parliament, using their position, favouring their companies in the process of concluding the contract with the state authorities. As the name of the decision itself says, the commission had to determine the facts, so the truth. The truth can only be established on the basis of evidence. The safest evidence of course is the written document. The Commission was obliged to deliver the documentation to the authorities of the state administration. Since they did not provide all the required documentation they are obliged to have, since part of the requested documentation was submitted to the Commission only six days before the deadline in which the Commission was obliged to complete its work, we cannot say that the authorities of the State Administration made a maximum contribution to the determination of the truth. We can only speculate on the reasons, and rule out the well-meaning of the body. Part of the documentation was submitted by witnesses showing that it exists, but after a request from the Commission and a fifth, it was not delivered to him by the competent state authorities. The impression is that there was a deliberate desire to leave room for subjective conclusions that had no resistance to written evidence. The Commission heard 10 witnesses, and on the basis of the evidence procedure carried out, established the actual situation under discussion today. It has undisputedly established a previously known fact of shares in the ownership of the companies of the capital that were operating with the state. It was also found that 2 000 394 contracts were concluded between 2000 and 2003. With "Capital Ing" concluded 52 which, at their own cost, account for 0.236% of the total value of all works. With the Coning Group's capital companies, 63 contracts were concluded, which account for 2,656% of the total value of all works. From 52 contracts concluded, the Commission found that 35 were concluded in accordance with then applicable legal rules. So something found out, not anything. This information cannot conclude that 17 contracts are concluded by law. Of these 17, 11 were completed by 1.1.2002 and were not provided by the competent ministries with the necessary documentation to explain that they were not obliged to keep it for more than 24 months. In the absence of written documentation, the Commission heard the witnesses, a total of 5 who all stated that the contracts had been concluded in accordance with the legal rules. Since there was no proposal for evidence that would challenge the accuracy of witness statements and commissions and the Parliament should consider that those 11 contracts were concluded in accordance with the law. 2 of the contracts, the Commission found that they were not fully concluded with the laws and regulations in force at the time. Irregularity is reflected in the fact that after the conclusion of the two contracts, the Department of Procurement of the Ministry of Finance has reached a solution which gives consent to the application of the procurement procedure by invitation to a limited procurement procedure. This decision was required by the management before the contract was concluded. Explaining the observed shortcomings of witnesses Alenka Kosisa Chicin-Shain and the witness of Ljudevit Herceg, they explained that it was known to happen because of the need for work to get consent on the phone, and the solution came later what happened in this case. For 4 contracts, the Commission could not determine whether they were concluded under the law for reasons that the competent ministries did not provide all the necessary documentation. 2 contracts lack a copy of the decision to set up an expert commission and a copy of the act setting out the way in which the procurement is to be made. The other documentation relating to these two contracts shows that the purchase was made by a limited collection of tenders and the selection was carried out by the Commission. One contract lacks a copy of the decision to choose the most favourable offer, and the minutes and procurement procedure found that "Capital Ing" had the most favourable offer and was proposed as such to select and negotiate expert supervision. Therefore, on the basis of existing documentation and witness statements, it is evident that all contracts are concluded in accordance with the law and then applicable regulations. If we bear in mind the fact that companies owned in part by officials Cacic, Tomcic concluded contracts with the ministries in 2000, given that out of several thousand completed contracts with "Capital Ing" were completed only 52 which, according to their value, make up as I said 0.236% of the total value, i.e. with the capital companies of the Coning Group 62 contracts which, at their value, account for 2,656% of the total value of the contracts concluded, then we can conclude only one. That there were no guesses of officials. In Tomcic's case, it was both found and unanimously concluded. All members of the commission voted in favour of that conclusion. In the case of Cacic, most of the members of the commission felt that the very fact that contracts were concluded between companies owned by a state official, Mr Cacic, then the Minister of Public Works on the one hand and the Ministry of Public Works, on the other hand, points to the relations of convenience. This conclusion is not based on the facts established by the Commission and the established facts that, in one part of the observed period, Radimir Cacic has transferred his ownership rights to a third party during the whole observed period. The commission couldn't take a unique stance on the conclusion of four contracts between the Ministry of Health and Capital Inga. Most of the members of the commission did not consider it necessary to respect the fact that only one company from Zagreb was performed for the Ministry of Health of the Professional Oversight Operations until 2000. That the ministry was lagging behind with planned business dynamics, that Capital Ing was involved in the business of regular legal procedure as just one of the companies and was not an exclusive supervisory entity for the health ministry's affairs. In the club of representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party, we consider these facts to be complete and important, and we accept the opinion of the members of the Committee, Mr Nenada Stazic, Ljubice Lalić and Jozo Radoš. Doubting all the facts that have been determined to conclude to us is, in the face of all the facts that have been determined to conclude that there has been no illegality, there has been no conjecture. That for years it has been manipulated with the lies and half-truths interpreted in the way that the daily political needs demanded. The Commission's findings have put an end to the non-argumented meal of individuals, but not just them. It is therefore a shame that the same criteria and criteria have not been applied in all cases. In the absence of uniformity, there is further doubt that the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives and their coalition partners protected their officials, Mr Zuzul and Mr Sanader from disclosure of the truth. We wanted the truth, and we weren't afraid of it, which we proved by voting for the appointment of the commission. And that we accept it by voting for the acceptance of this Report and the proposed conclusions.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55361	Thank you. Member of the commission, respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55362	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, so here's a few notes. First of all, it is necessary to state the conditions under which the members of the commission have worked in the first place. It was a strict division in the commission, unfortunately we've finished with 3:3, very strict division, 3:3 so all the conclusions are compromise, the mass of these conclusions just went to more important things and that's also the reason for the opinions. Secondly, it was necessary to prove that the decision to set up the commission was political, so it is worth it, because that is what the president has been trying to prove all along. The Commission’s work had to be completed as soon as possible, without going into detail, and this division must have passively passived and worked. Now, in order to deny any of this, I have to quote one reader of a daily list that reads: "If HDZ members of the commission found that the crime for Cacic's mandate was not the conclusion of the SDPs and the HNS and the members that the crime was not politically motivated to cover up crime. Furthermore, we have collected documentation for a long time because the work of the then Ministry of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction in the constitution of the new Government has been organised in several ministries and the documentation has been delayed in several places. Unfortunately, part of the documentation was destroyed at the end of 2003, I have to say in accordance with the Law on Keeping Documentation, these are minor documents, and accidentally preserved papers such as. The recommendations of the Ministry of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction of the Ministry of Health clearly show how the previous Government works. Members of the commission and witnesses brought in one part of the documentation, however, most of that documentation we already had and only a few papers were new. The Commission's President's interpretation that the previously established conclusions do not allow a return to certain topics is due to the fact that several disputed contracts, and in particular a number of contract annexes, have not been found in the contract, in this report. In fact, the hired expert overlooked it because we had so many contracts that we really couldn't get through it ourselves, he overlooked a number of annexes in the war-torn war-torn contracts and furniture purchases. There were seven annexes in one contract. I'll talk about it later and more specifically. The decision to set up a commission was made with 100 votes for and 2 to 3 against, so much so that the rulings imposed this commission, the value ratio, just before we heard the ratio of the contracts concluded to all the contracts, amazingly that the work of Capital Ing is actually being covered up here, i.e. to show that it is not significant at all. In fact, Capital Ing has employees, he had eight people, and now it's taken into account, say, complete construction I don't know... the highway stock or all that the ministry has done in 4 years compared to the job that got those 8 people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is true for Capital Ing that it is difficult to determine the impact, there are no written clues that the President of Parliament has affected getting jobs for his firm, but what is being obtained back, so... works for 8 people in 4 years more than 9 million, net 9 million kuna, take over 2 million kunas a year, per se shows how these jobs are actually obtained. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The remaining jobs "Capital Ing" were mainly concluded with the City of Zagreb, and one, two, three contracts outside these structures. In fact, the fact is that in all of this we have to say that a lot of it has been found, and we didn't expect criminal acts, but only the influence of those people, those officials, but what we've met and what we found, I think it's worth the attention of the State's Attorney's office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55363	Thank you. In 10 and 58 it was time for individual debates on this subject. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55364	Thank you very much. It is completely incorrect that what our members of the Bureau of Investigation are, especially members of the HDZ, as the predecessor said, is worthy of the attention of the State's Attorney's Office because nothing has been found, let alone in connection with criminal activities. It has also not been established that the president of the parliament has affected that the company Capital Ing, in which he has 22%, gets a job. Well, of course nothing was found because it didn't affect. The commission's task was to determine that if he found out unequivocally, and if he didn't find it to say it, it wasn't, and this was completely in the political address that we heard from Mr. Markovanovic, especially when he introduced the whole story, and I don't know where it was claimed there was both crime and that possibly the members of the Committee knew something about it, so if they knew of course their job was to say and write it, but obviously they didn't know anything because it wasn't even in the case of "Capital Ing".
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55365	Second correction, respected representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55366	Mr. President, I'm a member of the Committee, and if you'll allow me, I would, and instead of a correction as a member of the Committee to address myself.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55367	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55368	Thank you, Mr. President. So that's how it's going to happen if the rapporteur on behalf of the commission, we don't have one but we have more because obviously there are different interpretations of what we've been doing. My predecessor said there was a division in the Committee. There was indeed division in the Committee, but 4 from the position compared to 3 from the opposition. However, most of the conclusions or almost all of the conclusions were reached unanimously, it is very strange that these conclusions are now qualified as compromise conclusions because these compromise conclusions were not at the time of the vote but were conclusions based on the established factual situation. It was also incorrectly established that the Commission's goal was to finish the job as soon as possible. Dear colleagues, we all know in the Croatian Parliament that the commission is appointed on a certain deadline and after that deadline, the commission can no longer work. I must admit that at the beginning of the work of the Research Commission, there were attempts to delay this work as long as possible, so there were colleagues of the Committee who were in the Croatian Parliament that day, although they paid bills on bank counters, but they had no time to come to the meeting of the Committee. This only proved that there was no sincere desire to determine the actual state. Even the working conditions were not ideal, especially they were not ideal if under working conditions they were also considered to collect the documentation that was required to deliver to us by the Croatian Government. At the very beginning of the commission's work, a request went to the government for all documents to be delivered. The division of ministries to other ministries cannot be apologized because the documentation cannot be lost, there is an accurate way of secreting, destroying, and recording where the documentation is circulating. And when the witnesses delivered the documents, they couldn't be said to have been documents that already existed, but they were documents that we asked the government to do. The government didn't deliver. The documents we received illuminated and removed the possibility of both guessing and illegality. As far as this is concerned, the Capital ing concluded contracts with the city of Zagreb. Interesting. As a member of the committee, I only hear that information now. As a member of the committee, it was my duty to propose that the evidence be carried out for what I thought had been indicated that it had happened. And it is very strange that Mr. Markovanovic did not propose a new implementation of the evidence, did not propose proof of his opinions and suspicions. It was obviously in someone’s interest to leave room for further insinuations and unargumented meals. Fellow MPs, in this way we do not do the will of this House because the will of this Parliament has been expressed in a decision on the establishment of committees. I'd be embarrassed if I belonged to an investigative committee that didn't answer what you requested. True, a hundred MPs voted in favour of this decision and I was really hoping that at least among us the members of the investigative committee would not remain in doubt because I thought it was both our duty and our honor to finally shed some light on things. It is obvious that this wish was not unique in all and does not serve us or the common policy to discuss in this way and in front of parliament as well as in front of the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55369	My colleagues and colleagues were reporting for corrections of incorrect allegations and my colleague Ljubica Lalić then I gave her my word as a member of the commission. And then before her, he reported for a correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Pankretic, who was to correct the incorrect allegations of a member of the commission of counterpart Markovanovic. So now it appears for the correction of the incorrect quote, the respected representative Markovanovic, and should be given word and the chairman of the commission, Nenad Stazic. ... You'll have yours. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now let's get out of this. ... Yeah, let's go to that inaccurate quote from fellow Pankretic even though he needed it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55370	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Markovanovic's incorrect quote is that Mr. Zlatko Tomcic has influenced the getting of certain jobs. I'm surprised that after the unanimous commission finds something that someone is still trying to leave a certain void. I'd say the possibility of insinuating certain things. The commission unanimously found that Zlatko Tomcic did not influence the acquisition of Capital Inga businesses.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55371	Thank you. Is this about your colleague Markovanovic now? It's not working. The chairman of the commission is a respected representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55372	Your Honor, Mr. President, the commission put together a report and delivered it to this House. I must admit it vaguely, regardless of what the views of the committee explain to the chairman of the commission and the members of the committee, it would be logical and normal to expect them to represent the views of the commission. So those conclusions that entered the report. It is unclear to me now that a member of the commission may present views that are not in the report but which are justly contrary to the views contained in the report and which have entered there by the majority of the members, by the will of the majority of the members of the commission, and therefore to that member of the commission who is now and the same conclusions that he voted for when the commission on them was arguing. But if that's what it seems, if it's the right of a member of the commission to come here and speak for the commission what the commission hasn't concluded, then it shows on the one hand that a man is first misbehaving, that he is not consistent. But secondly, it proves the political intentions of establishing and working on this commission and interpreting its conclusions. Your will, Mr. President, is whether you allow it or not. I would even invite you to allow it because this method will show absurdity, absurdity of establishing investigative committees motivated by political methods. And now allow me, as chairman of the correctness committee, to return to the track, to the conclusions, to the report of this committee. It is incorrect first that Mr Markovanovic claims that at the last stage the commission works in Section 3:3 or in Section 3:3. The commission has seven members, four are from the parliamentary majority, three from the parliamentary minority. That if a member of the parliamentary majority did not come to a particular session because he was not given because he had this important job at the register or something else his thing, but the commission had a 4:3 relationship. And all decisions were made either unanimously or by a majority of votes. No decision could enter this commission, no conclusion by the will of the parliamentary minority. Secondly, says Mr. Markovanovic, we did not expect criminal acts or expected irregularities. As chairman of the committee, I didn't expect anything. I expected the commission to determine the truth. What Mr Markovanovic expected was his thing, but he can't say here on behalf of the commission that the commission was expecting or not expecting something because it's simply not true. Therefore, please speak here and a member of the commission must speak on behalf of the commission on the conclusions of the commission and not on personal expectations. Third, says most of the documents brought to the commission by the witnesses the commission had already had, they brought only some irrelevant things. That's not true. Key documents that have just been proven when we have already concluded that some contracts are not legal, are not legal because there is no decision on the establishment of that expert commission there that should have been established. And we conclude as a committee we draw a unanimous conclusion. Such a contract is invalid. Then suddenly documents appear, witnesses bring them in, which shows a whole other thing. Not that the contract is invalid, but that it's completely correct. Important documents were just brought in by witnesses. The commission has asked the government unanimously five times to deliver the documents. He concluded five times that the government was not fulfilling it. And for five times, Mr Markovanovic voted for those same balls and those same conclusions. Five times. Now he claims on behalf of the Committee something else. It's simply incorrect. And as for the proposal for a measure to refer all of this to the State's Attorney's office. Look, such a proposal of measures was to be decided by the Commission at its meetings. And that measure was proposed by Mr Markovanovic, and the majority in the Committee could vote. So why didn't they do it? What they didn't do, I don't know. But in any case, it's inadmissible now on behalf of the Committee here to go out and tell me with such a proposal measures we agree. Who agrees with Mr. Markovanovic? The commission agrees? At which session did he conclude that? So, Mr. President, if you'd like to allow the matter of ad absurdum to go, create from this point of the circus. Very good. Or run a session, channel things. I don't mind any member of the Committee here talking about this report, but let the brother speak correctly. Let him explain what the report says. Not that he's expressing his views. Well, it can do that in an individual debate of 10 minutes. He could've been on behalf of the club. But this Mr. President doesn't make sense. This is turning into a circus. I'll have to intervene as chairman of the Committee every time a member of the Committee does. I'm going to have to do it on behalf of the protection of the integrity of all my colleagues in that commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55373	Thank you very much. You can see in the report of the Investigative Commission, a report summarised with a proposal for measures of the Research Commission concerning the determination of facts and so on for rapporteurs, for rapporteurs on behalf of the Investigative Commission in the work of the Croatian Parliament and its working bodies, the Commission has appointed presidents and members of the Committee. So for the rapporteurs on behalf of the Investigative Commission in the paper, so everything that happens in the work of the Croatian Parliament and its working bodies, and you are the chairman of the Investigative Commission and you signed it personally to determine on behalf of, by agreement with the Research Commission, that for the Research Commission for the rapporteurs on behalf of the Research Commission in the work of the Croatian Parliament to be both president and all members of the Committee. I can't just cut it out now in a way to deny the right of members, others, any members of the Committee. All members, any and all of them should be shown about their own, about the work of the Croatian Assembly on the Investigation Commission, about the overall work. And the second question is whether or not a member of the Committee who gave his opinions and whether he should be, should he stick to the proposal for measures put forward by the Investigative Commission? It's his personal matter. I can't do anything else. The IDS Club is a respected representative of Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55374	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Indeed, this region of members of the Committee does not make sense in this form. Go, make a deal. If you haven't been able to make a deal, so on and so forth. However, what may be most insulting to me in this report is seen here on the side, but in the introduction, in the second, that you in the documentation in which, until then, which was not permanently delivered by the authorities of the state administration. How this is simply possible that the authorities of the state administration at the request of the Research Commission of a single body of the Croatian Parliament do not supply part of the requested documentation. In my opinion, it may not be a central question, but one of the most important questions. Apparently, the commission of these bodies asked for reports on five occasions. And the administrative authorities did not deliver those reports. And what does that say in the end? First, that those bodies that were to deliver it to the Parliament hold as to last year's snow and second that the Parliament in the same, same, I don't know, pours trust and fear as the last hole on the playing floor because that these bodies had the respect of the Parliament would not be deafened to the demands of the Parliament. Or if the Parliament had any power, those bodies wouldn't ignore us in that way. Ours or the Committee. Now it's no wonder why? Because all power is in the government. And the executive power clearly amongst itself is very solid. What bothers me, though, is that individuals who are not, I don't know, I couldn't accept the Parliament by playing, I don't know, in that second league of political today are directors, deputy directors, some big public companies. They all have two, three times the salary of the President of the Parliament or the Government. And now they're also giving us moral lessons and they don't want to, say, cooperate with the bodies that, uh, form this home. Why is that? Because there's power in the government. Assembly, I've already told you how they're experiencing it. The people think we can do something. What can we do? We can conduct a proper, empty debate. Lamentation in your position. However, it clearly does not benefit much. And now for real. Capital Ing, co-owner of Zlatko Tomcic with the state, concluded, we heard from Mr. Tomljanovic 52 contracts of total value, he says 12 million kuna. Mr. Markovanovic mentions 9 million kunas. I've also come close to that nine million kuna, not to speak for POS so much, the Ministry of the Sea so much. For the health departments so much. And so on. But now maybe the most important thing. If, for example, Zlatko Tomcic did not have any influence on getting a job, which this commission claims, it is suggested by Mr Stazic. And I also want to believe that it isn't. Should his company that owns 225 is supposed to put a key in a lock? And that's the point now. Shouldn't that company be working? I think one of those concepts is just nakaradically. That it can't be anywhere in the world, or that it's nowhere in the world. Of course no one can influence getting a job, but once again, the question is, shouldn't that company be working? This Polpotovski, I don't know, I know when we introduced him, he just denies it, or he doesn't want to admit that it's just the hardest thing to do is earn a kuna. It's easy to share, whether through government pay, whether through state media, whether through monopolies, funds. But in order for you gentlemen to pay someone, let's say 3,000 kuna, they would have to offer jobs, goods, at least 10 or 15 thousand kuna. That's the point. For example, to settle wages in one company with two employees, pay rent, goods, taxes, taxes, etc., contributions, you must monthly earn at least 60, 70,000 kuna in order to ultimately pay yourself not average but minimum wage. And that seems to be a little bit of a figure in this House. With Mr. Chacic, it's a little bit more clearly layered. For example. Here we see on this page 17 this schematic, this schematic display. I think where is... 10-ac, 115-ac companies where probably Mr. Cacic is having a hard time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as the contract was concerned, God himself cannot determine how difficult it is for this company. The board says it's coming out on page 23. 225 million kuna 614 thousand 956 kuna and 38 limes. And there's no Mrs. Cacic here, Mrs. Lalic, but let's just say, there's really no need to paint when we say, that's only 0.23%. That 0.23% is either 9 or 12 million kuna, or that only 2.56% is 225 million kuna. 0.23% we'll all say it's small, but when we say 12 million kunas or 9 million kunas, that's already decent. 2.56% not in that state mass, that's polite. But when someone mentions 225 million kunas, that's what you'll agree to all the respectable money. I'm not going to talk now like some people say in the halls, etc. that he wasn't a minister to go bankrupt. On the contrary, Mr. Cacic has launched a construction activity. Clearly with 30 billion kunas of budget money plus 4.5 billion kuna from Croatian waters. But to get back to the point now. Are companies allowed to perform economically in politics now? The suspicion of conflict of interest is certainly justified. As with those who claim, I don't know, that all those associations, let's say, financed by foreigners, are also in some conflict of interest. It is clear, though, that a conflict may be difficult for small values, but with these large amounts it is also understandable to stick them in the eyes. It is now clear that that is exactly what officials will be kept, or that that is what officials should guard themselves against being caught in a split. But shouldn't an entrepreneur be involved in politics on the other hand? The problem today is that capital is becoming more and more controlled by politics in these areas. And that's terrible. However, are they in any way able to deal with politics? I'm sure there's a lot of such moral dilemmas here, we'll never get to the green branch. But there are few ministers in the West who don't have one of their own. And now, if someone has broken the law, if a contract as it suggests, I don't know, the Commission, is not concluded in accordance with the law, it's clear that we have certain bodies that are valid, which should react, I don't know, called maybe sanctioned. But it is also true that people who are so involved in Croatian spaces in business, business, should simply not be involved in politics. And it's simple, I mean, general, general attitude almost everyone in this country. That's why I'm going back to the beginning of this story about the relationship between the executive and the representative authorities. I understand that sometimes it's hard just to stay your own, the minister's salary is 15, 16 thousand kuna, you know that and so much. But so that it wouldn't happen if someone really came into such a situation in the West had taken care of it, under quotes of "separated status". But I don't want to talk about it right now. I am glad to hear all this talk here, even in Croatia, even through Tomcic and Mr. Cacic. However, Kovacevic is right when he says nothing can be concluded from this report. They didn't even guess, they didn't. The commission on the other hand, in my court, didn't do anything. And that's why it might be best to keep it all together. That's the smartest thing. What can we conclude from this report? Nothing. How many deals did anyone conclude with the state and nothing more than that? Even members of the Committee differ in terms of accuracy. They could, someone would say, and the third would close certain jobs. But I mean, if someone hadn't affected getting these jobs, then you shouldn't even be calling it. Moral dilemma is safe and always, whether simply companies if someone is in politics and parallel, I don't know, in the business of these companies and I can work with certain state bodies. But then we, gentlemen, must also not have one criterion for Mr. Zuzul, the other for Mr. Cacic. The third criterion for Mr Tomcic, the fourth for Kajin, the fifth for Kovacevic or Kramarić, etc., because it simply leads to the misery of politics. Not that politics only fades, but that leads to the misery of politics. The problem for me may be far greater or essential, who in Croatia is through the institutions of conversion, privatisation and when he acquired businesses. Why have some individuals been chosen and were now at the beginning of a huge advantage, and all others who had to confirm themselves on the market and start de facto from the zero-90s, in an unequal position. Why was it ever going to create such an inequality in 91-92 and that will stretch it we are aware of, while the world and the ages are, because whoever has the property, whoever has the capital, he will no longer clearly in these circumstances without it. The problem of political certainty is that we need to be aware that the more time goes by, at some local levels, the more and more at the state level, capital will dominantly "become" under allegations and policy rules. What certainly doesn't make sense is that we here in Parliament play the court, that I don't know the left-hand side be the defense, the right-wing foreign prosecutors, the jury center. Simply, then, in another case, if these places change, but if a contract has been found to be concluded by law, we simply pass it on to those institutions that need to be dealt with. What's almost amazing, almost fantastic, is this claim that I simply can't believe is true, that individual documents or individual documentation were even destroyed. In one word, if only the Committee has found that there are certain irregularities, then it is known who should deal with it, not that we are simply crippling the entire local public, and to a large extent the position of this House and all of us are being demoted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55375	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55376	My colleague Cain explained for a long time that officials should be careful not to come into a position where they would be suspicious. Wrong. Officials should, like all citizens of this country, respect the laws. The moment they get caught not respecting the laws, they stop being officials and become criminals, and that's the only truth. All of these other things are moral disciplines that serve nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55377	Thank you. Member of the Investigative Commission, respected representative Frano Piploić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55378	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. In Slavonia, our shocks when they finish some work say, in the end, "what we knew we sang." What this Committee knew was what it wrote, what it found, which it managed to find with the help of all the associates we called for cooperation, it did and did. Therefore, no one can accuse us of ignorance. If we're ignorant, then we're who we are. Imputing us with some non-stop intentions, I just disagree with them. Here my colleague Cain mentioned, and I would agree with him, that in this kind of relationship, the ownership relations of the spider's web could not be met by the dear God, let alone by one Commission which was fact, the fact began as a sack of horns and as a bag of horns and ended. This is ultimately seen in this report of ours where we disagreed on some important things, and also throughout the whole work it was really tiring to do and to do. It seems to me that as the Committee, we have served for entertainment to all the Croatian public and that things seem to me that someone wants to declare us "a fag" because we haven't discovered anything, and in fact everyone knows what we should have found. Everyone knows that, and we just couldn't find it. It is good for dear colleagues and colleagues, it is good that we have brought any report and it has been really hard to work and negotiate the whole body of this process. It is also mentioned here that the Commission has found that they are all clean, and on the other hand it is said that the Commission has not done its job. If they're really all clean, then it's okay the commission has established their job. But if some of them aren't clean, so they've given appropriate documents, arguments, facts, then we need to respect those simple facts. During the entire work I will look back at this report here and I have given my separate opinion here on the problems we had in the work of the Committee and if we have failed to meet your expectations and expectations of the Croatian public part of the reasons are also in this here which I have written. So what are the problems with the commission's work in my view? During the six-month work, the Committee faced in its work various difficulties affecting the effectiveness of its work in response to the tasks set out by the Assembly in its Decision establishing the Research Commission. From the very beginning to the end of the commission's work, the Commission's work was obstructed by various jokes from individual members of the Committee who did everything to create a cartoon from the Commission that serves to entertain and mock the public, making fun of those who launched the Commission's initiative. An eclectic example of the obstruction and summoning of the Committee's session for the day after Easter Monday, he, in a written request of 4 members of the Committee, called for a meeting a day later because 4 members of the Committee were indeed officially prevented, announced this in advance. The way in which the facts are collected in connection with the concluded contracts between state bodies and companies owned or partly owned by officials, the pompous requirements for the delivery of documents, the selection and examination of witnesses and the interpretation of their statements are generally accepted only by those who contribute to them, and the others are silent or reduced by their importance indicates the presence of permanent obstruction. There was no session during the work of the Committee where the Government of the Republic of Croatia was not named for not delivering requested documents, wanting to transfer responsibility to the Government and the Ministry. It wanted to impute the government's impotence and incompetence because when it can't order a ministry official there to deliver the requested documents, how it can solve a more complex problem. The real canonadas of attacks against the government followed by some members of the commission when some witnesses came through their channels to the part of the documents requested. At several sessions, when discussing issues of lack of arguments, such an image would be created that whatever it says and suggests a parliamentary minority, it would certainly reject the parliamentary majority of the commission, thanks to its numerical advantage, dissuading the results of the commission's work in advance. Despite the fact that it was necessary to investigate and determine the facts regarding the completed contracts for the period 2000-2003, the commission could have completed its work significantly before the scheduled deadline. The job could have ended by the start of the season of vacations, but it doesn't seem to fit anyone. If, according to the president's assessment, a member of the committee were offended during the debate, I say in quotes, one of the lawyers, again in the quotes, then the commission would stand up in defense of the matter. But when one of the newspaper officials insults the entire commission and calls them a bunch of idiots, it doesn't matter. Since the beginning of the work, part of the commission has chosen the role of corporate attorneys owned by officials, neglecting the fact that the Assembly has ordered them to establish only the truth by the basis of the collected facts rather than the legal activity on the cost of taxpayers. During the conclusion, everything and everything that Grandma wanted was pushed into the conclusion, rather than based on the fact that she was in a position to do so. And finally, as a constant in part of the committee, we note that not all witnesses had the same treatment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55379	Thank you. You quoted that part of the verse we knew, that's what we sang, but there's an addition. The second part is, the rest didn't fit in the car. It's organic synthesis one. Correction of an incorrect allegation, a respected representative of Zeljko Pecek, then a respected representative of Zeljko Lesar, and then a president of the Committee. Mr. Vice President, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55380	Thank you very much. I am correcting the incorrect allegations that everyone knew what was to be found in the work of this committee. In some ways, members of the commission obviously failed their expectations because they found nothing for Mr. Tomcic. But it's actually the most important thing that they've found the truth is they just don't want to admit it. For me, it's the most important thing, that they found the truth and that there was no guessing. And the truth that there are no arguments for a political conviction that is clearly still the goal of bringing it here in the Parliament, is the problem of some members of the commission. Obviously, they're disappointed, but the facts are in favor of finding the truth, which is most important.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55381	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55382	Thank you very much. Mr. President called me Zeljko Lesar. Željko Lesar is a famous academic painter in Croatia, otherwise my cousin. I'm Dragutin Lesar. My colleague Puplić said, everyone knows...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55383	Was that a correction to an incorrect quote or is it now?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55384	I'm correcting now. I also had to correct the president, if you don't mind, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Puplić said, everyone knows what we should have found. I don't know what you're supposed to find, and if you really got a warrant from someone that you need to find to publish it to the Croatian public. And secondly, the members of the commission did a constant obstruction. I listened carefully to the president of the commission, where such a thing was never indicated, but he warned that the commission was subjected to obstruction by the government without delivering documents. That's a hell of a difference. I'm done. Four of you were from the ruling majority. How the minority could have obstructed most I really don't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55385	Thank you. President of the Committee, the Honorable Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55386	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Commissioner, Mr. Piploic read his own opinion here, which is certainly his right. I have partly quoted or mentioned this opinion in my opening statement, as I have mentioned all other opinions. When does an isolated opinion occur? It comes to an individual opinion when a member of the commission cannot do so, let us not say push or ensure that it is the official position of the commission. Mr Piploic belonged to the parliamentary majority, the majority in the commission and this separate opinion could have become the official position of the commission to vote on it. It's unclear how someone who has a majority needs to give an opinion at all. It's completely illogical to me, and it's completely incomprehensible to me. But I'm reporting here not because of this illogicality because I leave it to the author, but because of the claims of obstruction made here. So it is said that there was an obstruction in the work of the commission, and as evidence of the obstruction of the session that was called on Tuesday after Easter Monday. First of all, I don't understand how calling a session is about obstructions. I don't get it. I guess by not calling, there's been an obstruction. Obstruction is something else, when a meeting is called on a working day. It's obstruction. All the people on Tuesday, after Easter Monday, went to work, only not members of the majority, the parliamentary majority in this commission. They were still celebrating. The workers rose well in the morning, went to work, officials, clerks, all except four members of the commission who continued to celebrate. And now they're celebrating, and whoever called the session is doing an obstruction. It's completely illogical. Secondly, he says it is obstruction and pompous requirements for the delivery of documentation. The requirements for the delivery of the documentation were first not helpful but were neat, fully civilised. We're asking the government to hand over the paperwork. There was no pompnosity here. And in addition, I again find it unclear how the work of the commission is obstructed when the paperwork is requested. Well, I guess you'd be obstructed if you weren't asking for paperwork, not when you're looking for it. Secondly, obstruction is, it says, the government's calling for documents not being delivered. Right, we called the government five times and each time Mr. Piploic voted for that conclusion. Every time, five times. Five times. Furthermore, says Mr. Piploic, the commission could have completed its work significantly before the deadline was set. Well, it couldn't. Six days before this extended deadline came the last documents from the government. Six days. And if we had ended up in the spring a bunch of documents that we later received, we wouldn't have them. We wouldn't have them. Therefore, yes, we could have finished earlier, but the conclusions would have to be significantly different and significantly unfavourable for those whose behavior we examined. If that was the intention, then I agree that we should have ended it sooner, but then I agree with the fact that we didn't have to be founded, because it was all in that session when the Committee started to say it all, all those conclusions. And finally, the conclusions say everything and everything that happened to Grandma, what Grandma wanted, I don't know, I didn't get that line right, she's a little rough. In conclusion, nothing could have become the conclusion of this commission that it was not the will of the majority in the Committee, but nothing at all. Mr. Piplovic, without your consent and consent of your colleagues from the parliamentary majority, no conclusion could have been made. So if someone in the conclusion pushed everything and everything it could have been just the majority, if they thought of themselves well, then you might be right, but it seems to me that you didn't think of yourself. Therefore, I have no objection to you having an opinion, I find it strange that it is illogical, strange that you do not agree with what you have voted for yourself, but my God it is your right, it is your right to be either consistent or inconsistencies, but I ask you, Mr. Piplovic, when you express the views of the Commission, you express the official views of the Commission, what you have voted for, it will be a minimum of correctness for the other members of the Committee, a minimum of correctness towards the public and this body to which we submit the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55387	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55388	Dear Mr. President, I think that the President and members of the Bureau of Investigation are essentially in violation of Article 211(2) which says "Proposer", and these are all "or the representatives of the motions which he has appointed to speak in the opening statement on... discussions for a maximum of 30 minutes in the presentation and at the end of the debate for a maximum of 30 minutes, and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] every explanation during the debate for a maximum period of 10 minutes." They give themselves an explanation, this whole debate comes down in a debate between the members of the Committee and the president, and it really doesn't make sense anymore. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let them come together outside and make a deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55389	All members of the Committee have. Let's move on. The word has a distinguished representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55390	Your Honor, Mr. President. My opinion on this report is much more favourable than the opinion of the president himself and his members. I think, however, that through this report, several valuable information has been obtained that justifies one thesis that I spoke about earlier in this House, one phenomenon of politicisation of crime and on the other side of policy crime. First of all, we got here a clear party division of aprior attitudes and relation to the content of the Report, compared to all, to the weapons that ruled during the work of the Commission, yet some minimum community was found in the proposal for conclusions. What is this useful information that a man gets from this report? The first is that two state officials, so Mr. Tomcic and Cacic, combined with private companies 115 contracts, 52 Tomcic, 63 Cacic, by theoretical imperative, found themselves in all these situations in conflict of interest. The conflict of interest in itself is not something illegal or unethical or against public morality, these are all situations in which a man finds himself in conflict, his public debt interest and his private interest. That's all the situations. In view of this concrete conclusion, and most of these conflicts of interest to the report of the Commission have been successfully resolved, the first conclusion of the proposal for measures that are very important and should certainly be seriously discussed to propose to the Government that a legal ban on the possibility of a state official in the perspective be concluded with their own private firms. As for the value of the contract, Tomcic's value of the contract, that is, his company, in which he owns 22 per cent, a million and 600 thousand euros, Cacic's 20 times more than 30m euros. When it comes to illegal acts of suspicion or a claim of illegality with Cacic refers to 5 contracts, with Tomčić on 2 contracts, the 16 contracts were not known about, the colleagues of Kajin and counterpart Pero Kovacevic spoke about this, and when it comes to guessing that Cacic had guessed in two cases, that Tomcic had been cleared of the doubt of favor. These are all very important information, and they should be taken into account when talking about themselves here, the subject that we were talking about here. I am prone to the conclusion that there are implications proposed by several colleagues, so it is from colleague Ivo Josipovic to add one conclusion where, however imperfectly compromised or conflicted, the report would be delivered both to the USKOK and the State Attorney's Office to see if there are elements of the illegality of any type of criminal offence or do not give God of organised crime. As for the position of the two state officials themselves, it would be polite if they were present during this debate, the reasons for the absence of Zlatko Tomcic are justified, and the reasons for the absence of Radiir Cacic are understandable. In fact, he has publicly accused members of the Committee as one group of idiots or a bunch of idiots, and with that, I would say something about how I read this report. Last year, during the maintenance of the Davis Cup meeting of America and Croatia in California in the Croatian home in San Pedro, Radimir Cacic appeared, and there he presented two very important ones for our debate today. The first claim was that the Croatian people by their nature are subject to corruption and the second claim is that in Croatia it is extremely easy to get rich, especially to get rich in war conditions. Following that statement, I will tell you the story of the eastern sin of Croatian war profiteering that I have checked in detail and concerning the situation in Dubrovnik before the end of 1990. So, in 1990, on November 22, 1990, Radimir Cacic, at that time the head of the social company's management "Coning" concluded with pension and disability insurance contracts for the construction of a nursing home or retirement home in Dubrovnik. Dubrovnik is located as the whole of Croatia in the psychosis of military shock expectations, then two months later the Spegelj affair broke out and he concluded an engineering contract in the construction of a retirement home in Dubrovnik, Miorkm from 13 December 1990 to 24 May 1991 over seven temporary advances paid the entire amount of 192 million and 300 thousand then dinars for the calculated value of only 58 million works on that House of Retirers. The home was not built because of wartime opportunities and Radimir Cačić made 101 million of these received advances in the form of loans to his private companies Zagorje LLD and Zagorje d.d. On 21 January 2002, the Union of Pensioners of the Dubrovnik branch filed criminal charges against Radiir Cacic for the criminal offence referred to in Article 292. The penal code, however, was an absolutely outdated act. So when it comes to getting used to evil, you will all remember how shocking our collective experience of first death in Croatia was for Josip Jovic at Plitvices. Over time, people get used to blood, murders, accidents. This is about the first part of war profiting with which our colleague Radimir Cacic boasts in San Pedro to the Croatian home and therefore there are legal bases in the United Nations conventions to qualify this work ex post as the first work of war profiting in Croatia that does not get old and that this is how it should be treated. As far as the tricks on the report of this investigative committee are concerned, the problem is ours in dealing with similar problems because Croatian legislation has not in any way adopted modern theoretical achievements primarily of the World Bank in relation to transition political corruption. I will quote here the views of two leading World Bank theorists from their report, or the introduction to the Global Corruption Report for 2005. It's about Daniel Kafman and Joel Hellman. These are the two leading today in the world of political corruption theorists of transition countries and they distinguish the two corruption acts that are not proposed in our criminal legislation. The first is the work of imprisoning the state. This is a classic case of Radiir Cacic, so where practically state officials as owners of private firms manage to impose public legislation that enables them to avoid conflicts of interest and other criminal acts provided for by national legislation. And the second crime is the theoretical concept of administrative influence that has been used in all of these cases. Therefore, if we want to be useful, we must, after this debate with all the imperfections of this report, propose innovation in our criminal legislation to introduce a criminal offence of the capture of the state and, unfortunately, not ex-posting people who today and tomorrow, and up to five years will be engaged in this work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55391	Thank you. Replica, a respected representative of Kovacevic. I'm sorry, we have two corrections to the incorrect assumption. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55392	So here's the correction to one incorrect quote. It is not true that the SDP Club has proposed that this report be delivered to the State's Attorney's Office. In fact, we don't think it is, that's what Kub HDZ suggested. However, we consider this to be contrary to Article 180(1) and (2). The CAP, which said that state authorities are obliged to report certain offences prosecuted under official duty as well as to submit evidence of a specific criminal offence. But otherwise, in Croatia, here it is, especially in the Croatian Parliament, warning the State's Attorney's Office's report that they have been established and commonly delivered here to see or to consider certain findings or complete files arising from the debate. In this way, the State's Attorney's Office is burdened needlessly. It also warns about the revision and also warns the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, it is necessary to propose specifically which work or not to bother the State's Attorney's Office.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55393	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55394	Thank you very much. I have two allegations to correct. A colleague of Letica said that the investigative commission has established a two-contract settlement. That's not true. Only one with an indication or finding indicates a guess without claim. Secondly, it would be reasonable for a colleague named Cacic to be present here. A colleague, Cacic, is not a representative and no one who is not a representative or a representative of the government can be in the hall as much as he wants. And I understand the personal calculations of tennis content but Zagreb indors is finished.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55395	Thank you. Replica, a respected representative of Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55396	Dear Mr. Vice President, regarding the presentation of the distinguished colleague Letica that Croatian legislation did not adopt high standards that could also prevent conflicts of interest and all that we are talking about today and particularly about what fellow Letica was talking about. It could have been adopted that it wanted because the HSP Club has already proposed the laws four or five times. If our first Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest had been adopted, if our initiative regarding officials had been adopted, the Law on Public Procurement of this situation would not have happened and would have been prevented in good time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55397	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55398	I thank my colleague, Peri Kovacevic. That bill of law did not include criminal acts of capture of the state. I'm just going to say what crimes are at stake. The sale of parliamentary votes for laws serving the private interests of a given company, the sale of presidential regulations or provisions serving private interests, the direction of central bank funds, the sale of judicial decisions in criminal disputes, the sale of judicial decisions in commercial disputes and illegal contributions paid to political parties and election campaigns on behalf of private interests. The area of political corruption in Croatia is unfortunately so serious that this House must simply do something with or regardless of this report to fix something in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55399	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55400	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues! So here I am, in my presentation, going to use a series of quotes. Finally, this has been very useful for our commission president for the past two years, and based on the quotes, his discussions have been the same. So, Cacic's empire after the conversion developed in one perhaps a little more complex way, at least that's how it wanted to be shown somehow. There have been controversial cases in the transformation itself. Let's remember the press release on Elan, borrowed with money before the conversion, returning after the conversion, and still. But let's leave it alone now. Let's drop it now. Coning Alpha, Coning Alpha. As far as Alpha goes, so goes Coning Alpha. So that's where Cacic came from. Society d.o.o., therefore a limited-responsibility society for the majority owner of Mr. Cacic and his wife are founded by companies like these three, three societies of these 4 mentioned. Later they bought a stake in the Urbanist Institute of the City of Zagreb and sold it 30% so that the Urbanist Institute would not even touch it here. And right before us was the problem: E Cacic is not the owner of the company d.d. The ones we're about... I talked to you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, it's not him. He owns a fundamental society, and a fundamental society is the majority owner of each of these societies. And property is owned directly or indirectly "Coning Alpha" is interestingly handed down by law, and so on is committed to management and immediately returned to the end of the year. He wasn't returned just for that, because of what his colleague Lesar was saying because of this law, the amendment and... The law here at the end of the year comes dividends, so then you just have to get back what we've earned in companies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, not all businesses, families, property of the Cacic family are counted. Let's just say we didn't mention Coning Project, Coning Ecology, and first of all, Aurum Insurance, which is also owned by the Cacic family, but it's our fault. He's proposing us. So I have to say, "Aurum Insurance" is what happens very strange things. Here we are reading in the press the other day a controversial guideline from Mr. Church: "Mato Churchvenac, while he was Minister of Finance and Chairman of the Supervisory Board, issued a famous instruction that he tried to discipline state-owned companies by calling them not to leave the successful Croatian insurance company." So from Croat Insurance. In such a process, he has caused a great deal of revolt among other insurance companies who reminded the minister that the market economy and free market choice are the most acceptable services in Croatia. In 2002, "Croatia Insurance" lost 34 million kunas of state, a premium from state-owned companies that, for example, entrusted car or helicopter insurance to private insurance companies such as "Aurum" or "Alians". So it's amazing that people were leaving Croatia Security, state-owned companies, and they were securing the aurum, but here it is. Unbelievable but true. Construction firms that got a job from the ministry, Cacic's Ministry often provided or had to provide their workers with insurance at the Aurum Insurance. I guess I volunteered. Former Minister Radiir Cacic's work is best described in the audit report. Again, not to read everything, just a few words: "Some procedures in implementing the programme of socially stimulating housing have not been implemented in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Encouragement of Housing. The Law on Public Procurement, the Law on Construction, are consent to direct arrangements obtained after the contractors of the works have been elected and so on." Then they mention "The Key to the Hand" and a similar act. No tenders have been cancelled for the selection of contractors... the prices at which their implementation was offered were more than planned and secured. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The design service, facilities at Sesveta and Spain sites in Zagreb were contracted after the procurement and competition procedure was carried out. The invitation to tender was awarded and the contract was concluded on 4 August 2003. And so on. Clearly, he needed the approval of the procurement office, and the approval was requested later and so on. So there are some very strange things here and it would be good. One of the contracts that's listed there is construction on Cres. Imagine the poor people on Cres without apartments. They were so in need of construction that the Ministry made a direct contract. So there's a contest in place. There was a firm in the competition. I remember my previous job where, in the municipality, when a firm called for a competition, we had to look for a competition or show up because we really shouldn't have. It's not about the small money. It's about, this time I'll be specific. 16 million 416 thousand 191 kuna and 6 limes. So about 16 and a half million kuna direct contract. Clearly, that one firm that called is "Congama." And now very strange things happen. Already in the competition, it is required that the company that received the tender to finance the construction of 29 garages and 2 business spaces, which is extremely interesting in POS's apartments. Because if we know the POS's system of work, then we know that the cost of the apartment is cheap because the cost of the apartment doesn't go to the building land and the infrastructure doesn't go. So the company had to wander through the actually low price because it got 29 garages and 2 business spaces for a ridiculously small amount. It is interesting that the annex writes "a signed annex between Congama, Cacic's Congama and his ministry that the relationship between the investor and the performer moves in relation to the seller and the buyer". If the relationship between the seller and the buyer is where the tender for the sale of those 29 garages and 2 business spaces is. So they're got a very simple way of coming to you and I'm done. Further, especially interesting Spanish. Spain must have raised a little more interest because most of the contracts and thank God there are about 30 of them, concluded as well as for the Council 60 contracts 2 days before the election. So how did the contracts get there? I read earlier that the design jobs were actually divided, so then the approval from the Office was too late and, in order to cover these works. Four projects were awarded "Coning ingenering" and interesting for the same buildings, the job got "Congama". What's strange here is that no contract should have been concluded because there was no building permit and the contracts were even made on the idea projects. Ideal, not implementing, idea projects. Clearly, there is also a major deviation in the idea facilities. So there's no building permit, and even the Ministry didn't own any land in Spain at the time, and we know the Sesvete today or what was touched, but the contracts were done neatly. There's only a few words about annexes. The annexes significantly change the essence of the contract because, in addition to the extension of deadlines and price changes, the position of the contractor becomes a creditor, contracting authority of the Ministry of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction is changed. So, in most annexes it's amazing but Cacic's firm becomes a government lender. It's about rebuilding houses, then fitting furniture. I said, in one contract, even seven annexes. With one such annex of the Congo, when making a contract worth more than 7 million, it gets another million and a half kuna, so a 20% correction. At new prices, it far exceeds the rejected competitors. It is interesting to mention that I have not noticed in any contract, although Minister Radimir Cacic, his signature, writes everywhere. All signatures are in exchange so Pontius Pilate has arrived elsewhere. I guess he's been in first place by now. Dumping offers are also not rare. I'm sorry we don't have time, I'd read you a series of dumping offers where actually if some company is cheaper than the Cacics it turns out to be because of dumping. If it's Chacic's company's dumping offer, it goes away. And I see it's red light, so we'll continue that later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55401	You had another minute. Replica, the esteemed representative Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55402	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I must note that Mr. Markovic, if he hadn't already been or didn't want to and didn't want to understand the POS model before becoming a member of this committee, at least he could have, had to when he became a member of the Committee. In fact, he said that in the cost of building an apartment according to the POS model, there is no price for land or infrastructure, which is a pure lie, untrue, a lie, but the truth can also be called lies. Namely, whoever wants it can very easily determine that the maximum price under the POS Law is 910 euros per square, 910 euros per square square, which includes the maximum cost of construction and designing, 700 euros and the difference is land and infrastructure. Who, anyone can determine that. Yeah, well, why are we talking against POS today, on different sides? I'm not just gonna charge HDZ. So for the simple reason that the price on the market is between a thousand 800 and 2,000 500 square feet of apartment and young people are not allowed to reach an apartment in better locations up to 910 euros per square square cent on a 30-year-old loan. Well, it's clear why it doesn't stop and why it can't be built. And why make cases even where construction started. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55403	Replica reply, distinguished representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55404	Well, I appreciate Mr. Marasovic speaking out of his heart. But the denial right now. When we were in the Municipality of St. Sunday, I must say, we were also looking for a consultation on the construction of POS apartments, we were told Mr. Marasovic, can but the municipality must provide both land and infrastructure. So much for that, huh? So it was from the heart, but it was not true from your side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55405	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative Frano Piploić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55406	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm really gonna be short. One part of what I meant to say I said before for the pay phone downstairs. No matter what we think about this report, it's the way it is. The fact is that a minimum of one of our own will is expressed, some minimum of unity based on what we agreed on while we were determining the actual state of affairs. Furthermore, it is also a fact that all the expectations that were great of this commission have obviously fallen into the water. Well my expectations have also fallen, because I saw in fact that what we did and did, that it actually exceeds both our powers and our abilities and our capabilities. So here at the end of this short debate of mine I'm just going to suggest that it means that this should be referred to the State's Attorney's Office, or the USKOK, so let them, they have qualified, trained experts who can confirm or remove doubts from these people that were here. And lastly, I'm sorry that there are no colleagues, Herman, who actually said here a structure that insulted me as an article of the Committee. He compared the commission to Vishinski. I guess I know exactly what that comparison means. Visinski's victims ended up in graves, ending up in Siberian case files. It's an insult to the members of the Committee, it's an insult to the entire Parliament who appointed this commission. Therefore, a respected colleague should apologize to both the Parliament and the Croatian public for such construction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55407	He doesn't understand. ... Here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] On behalf of the Committee, the honourable representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55408	Hello, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, well, here, my colleague Letica mentioned every rude insult of the members of the commission from Mr. Cacic. Obviously, we guessed the point, that we found more than he expected, and that's certainly evidence of nervousness. Only in this, it's really unclear that no members of the Committee of the Resistance have found themselves there, because that was also true of them. However, I wanted to clarify some things a little more. We have one problem, and that's a big problem, the Vukovar problem. Vukovar is a city that suffered a terrible death and in Vukovar, in fact, one of these things that we pointed out and happened. In Vukovar it happened, other than grenades, and that for the building POS the same day two contracts were written, the same day two contracts were signed by the same people. One is the Director of the Congame, and another is Alenka Kosisa Cicin-Shain, in exchange for a clear minister, because the orderly Minister Radimir Cacic writes above. The first contract says "key in hand" in the second clause contract deleted. And now, interestingly enough, a little bit with witnesses, something a man reads here, with witnesses was the story of Director Congame saying that it doesn't matter whether it says "key in hand" or doesn't say "key in hand". I really don't understand why it doesn't matter, because I think it's very important. And here, I quote Minister Cacic who answered our questions there, here's Cacic replied that it is clear that the idea of projects can be wrong 20 plus, minus, the main project 5 to 7 should be more than 5%, etc. So in this way... it also allows for errors, thus allowing errors, in advance these errors occurred clearly in one large sum, and it happened there as well as in the good part of the contract that when the annexes were added to the main contract, they exceeded most of the companies' offers, most of the other companies. Cacic's firm often got a job because it was the cheapest, and what was actually going on might also have to quote one of the witnesses, Mr. Shima Radulić's witness, director of Rijeka, Project Engineering, etc. Mr Radulic replied that when this facility was built from the beginning it had become a latent danger that the facility would not be completed due to non-payment etc. And now he's saying that actually companies that get jobs can't be performers if they can't do 51% of the job themselves. What happened next? "Technotext" which led the facility to the roof structure on their speech and application and their promises will be paid, not paid, stopped. After that, he received another subcontractor, so he went with subcontractors, and as far as "Congame" is concerned, that's what I wanted to say, their offer was the cheapest statement by Mr. Šime Radulic. Shime Radulic was the supervision selected from the ministry that actually claimed that the other contract where the key was claused into his hands was not valid. So the cheapest offer, because when contracting construction works, they gave a discount of 43.94%, so 44% discount. And Mr. Radulic said, it was a dumped price, they left it for about 10 to 15% to someone else. This someone else has a problem completing the facility and how much information he has, they have not yet fulfilled their obligations to their subcontractors. "Congama" had one employee on the site, and he wasn't from Congama, he was from Coning Engineering, but I'm saying it doesn't matter. The technical examination was clearly not done, I guess, because not everything was paid and done, so the companies that worked clearly did not want to give evidence, etc. On the question of Mr. Piplojic, he says how much dumping was made and getting jobs was actually one permanent practice or case, Mr. Radulic replied that in principle it was a practice. For Spain, a colleague of the Chichin-Shain Košisa replied that there were about 30 objects, in Sesveda 60 objects. Of these facilities still nothing, because the ministry didn't even own the land I said so, so it couldn't. The question was also asked by Mrs. Chichin-Shain that a building permit was required under the law. A necessary building permit. So I wonder how it could have been for 90 objects to sign a contract two days before the election, without any object being a building permit, and we found out later from the performers, it was and even the installations were pulled on the basis of the idea projects. So it wasn't an implementation project, or what it needed most. So I'm still wondering how the local self-government has been punished in all sorts of ways for significant minor violations, and Cacic's ministry could have done this in any way it pleases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55409	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative, Ivan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55410	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. As a member of the Committee, the Secretary of the Committee will try to get involved in the debate, although for justifiable reasons in the last commission when the conclusions were made, I was not present because I was on my way to America. By passing the Law on Investigation Commissions of 96 years, the investigation committee can establish the Croatian Assembly, which has also done with the Research Commission to determine the facts of the concluded contract committed by companies owned by officials or partly owned by officials in the past government, Mr Tomčić and Mr Cacic, adopted in 4.2.2005, and it is good to note that this is not the first commission, that there has been more commissions to investigate conflicts of interest, that the former government and former council of Parliament founded the Committee for Interrogation, so we cannot object to each other that this is the will of one majority, the parliamentary majority that wants to politise. If we want to politicize now what you're saying, then you're certainly throwing a shadow at establishing your own committees, then if it's politics now, then it was an XXL policy. In her work, the Committee carried out all the documentation received, listened to 10 witnesses, and used the services of a court expert. There were a lot of objections that the government didn't file. The government has made the most of its efforts to provide documentation that was not hidden, which was available. The government couldn't deliver documentation that wasn't there. Well, the very fact that Mrs. Alenka Kosha Chichin-Shain delivered some documentation... where the file was that it was in someone's private vaults, private archives, or where it was supposed to be stored. [[You don't understand.]] So that fact itself says that the documentation available to the government was delivered when the government found it, and it is also talking about something else, which people remained in which places they were supposed to deliver the documentation but for various different political reasons they did not give it. However, we have received a vast majority of the documentation, we have not received five decisions on the appointment of the commission and two decisions on how to choose whether it will go through a direct contract or a public tender. So all the paperwork was available. In the course of the analysis, the documentation found that companies owned by officials significantly increased the size of transactions with state-owned enterprises or institutions, either through a tender or through a direct contract. It can also be concluded that it was very difficult to obtain ownership structure and participation in certain companies, because it was established almost daily, and the ownership structure in these companies changed from hour to hour, from one commercial court in Varazdin, Zagreb, and beyond, so that it should be understood that the commercial court could not monitor this company's establishment dynamics. In connection with the conclusion of the contract of the company "Capital Ing" owned by Zlatko Tomčić, the Commission concluded that no approval of the company "Capital Ing d.o.o." with the authorities of the state administration and this is what the Commission wrote in its report. The shadow tossssss about the contracts "Capital Ing" concluded with the Ministry of Health is evident that the Ministry of Health has requested from the Ministry of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction a recommendation for a company that could successfully monitor mutual satisfaction for them. And that the ministry recommended only one company, Capital Ing. So, just one, why no more companies? Why not three? We hope for mutual satisfaction. In the business of companies owned or partly owned by Mr. Radiir Cacic, there has been a number of failures and violations of the law on procurement. There were public calls for the papers, and somewhere for the larger amount, they went to a direct contract. It is also evident that Mr. Radiir Cacic's companies were doing designing, performing works and monitoring on the same project, on the same jobs where they certainly enjoyed it because the competition was not equal. Every craftsman and smallest plumber, let alone one construction company whose employees were doing project documentation, whose employees perform the work, whose employees are monitoring it surely understand, and certainly we who are sitting here in this Croatian Assembly. On many contracts, annexes were made up to 25%. The amount that doesn't comply with the law. It should also be said that after a number of positives, there are positive opinions of the procurement department, but all together throws a bad picture and certainly companies that are not selected in the competition are played. When a company owned by a minister was elected and something was not in accordance with the law, then an urgent request was made for the opinion of the procurement office and which was up-to-date and often after the election. It's also interesting... the composition of the committees and the signatories of the contracts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Almost always the same. It's just as sweet as the time of the contract, I mean pre-election as it is, here's what I'm going to read a few contracts because they're really interesting. Not as much as time. It's a $4.8.2003 contract, a million, 400, just one Coning Engineering company, a million, 433. The contract of 4.8 million 454, the contract of 4.8.2003, I speak, amounting to a million 443. Contract of 4.8rd contract million 443. I'm not gonna read these less, let's just say they're not interesting. But for example, contract 0511-G-80498/03, 21.11.2003. So, two days before the parliamentary elections, at the amount of 25 million 87 thousand 54 kuna. Done at Brussels, 12 December 2014. 25 million 672 thousand 170 kuna 67 limes. Agreement 05/11-G-80497/03 4.11.2003 on 30 million 337 thousand 186 kuna 20 limes. Treaty of 21.11.2003 on 14 million 052 thousand 530 kuna 96 limes. Agreement 0511-G-80518/03 of 6.11. of 11 million 134 thousand and 028 kuna and 36 June. It is certainly also possible to conclude from the above what was the intention of the time in the conclusion of the contract. But at the same time, you wonder how necessary it is to have your own employees' operatives to carry out these contracts and respect the law on procurement that says 51% of the work must be done with its own operation. These contracts in just a month require an operation, so I'm going to say, half of Croatia's construction contractors' operations, and at least the Viaduct and these larger construction firms, not these companies that had one official car, fax and a couple of cell phones. In order not only to be general, I will also quote specific contracts although my colleagues are already in one part of it, I will repeat some of my colleagues, but it is interesting, and I think it will be clear to everyone, and especially to our Croatian broadcasters. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on the purchase of goods, services and the admission of works only says this because if this were done by one chief, one mayor or mayor believe I would have played the piano long ago. The Ministry of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction of the Republic of Croatia has announced a public competition for works in the construction of a residential building in Vukovar. ... And that's within the housing program for the victims of the Homeland War. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That sounds interesting and nice. In the framework of the Ministry, the Department of Housing detailed the conditions for public competition that were such and published on 19 April 2001. Not to read the class, along with the general indication that it is a program of building apartments for victims of the Homeland War and that the works that are subject to competition are given, or offered by system key in hand, with fixed prices. That's very important in the contract. In accordance with point 4 of point 17 of the above, the provision states explicitly that each offer should contain a statement that the offered value for the performance of the works is determined after the control and the quantity and type of work by system is the key in hand at fixed prices. While in point 4 of Article 21 explicitly states as the obligation of the future performer to carry out 51% of the offered...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55411	Thank you. Timed out Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Lesar. [[Intruder: I'll continue on another occasion.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55412	Thank you very much. I've got three quotes from my fellow Wolfie to correct. The first allegation that the commission found a series of contracts by direct contract. None. In fact, it is necessary to know the Public Procurement Act that the difference between a direct contract and the conclusion of a contract by collecting offers is understood. He should be familiar with the legal provisions and regulations. Secondly, the trade court changed books from hour to hour. Well, the period observed for the commission's work was 2000 to 2003. You're not going to say that last year's trade court was changing books from 2000 hours to hours. I think you insulted the Croatian judiciary with that claim. And thirdly, if the Commission had found a number of failures in the contract, the Commission concluded that 5 contracts suspected legality of which only one of them is likely to point out that they were eligible. After all, your debate is and several of your predecessors and members of the Committee are now evidence, and that is what you said to conduct the debate not because of the findings of the Research Commission but because of Croatian Radiotelevision viewers.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55413	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55414	Mr. Vukic says the government was delivering all the documents, the maximum effort was made, but she couldn't deliver documents she didn't have because they ended up in private archives. That's not true. When the documents appeared by the witnesses at the Committee then they were subsequently delivered by the Government from their drawers, so she had them before, why didn't the Commission deliver them, whether it was because she didn't find them in the first wave, so she only found them when she saw that they were discovered from other sources or she was deliberately hiding them, that commission didn't go to determine, but the fact that the government had delivered documents only when it was established that they existed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55415	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55416	Mr. Representative Vukic entirely incorrectly argues that until the applicability it was evident in favour of Tomcic's company in the case of the Ministry of Health. Completely incorrect and I don't know why my colleague Vukic, after voting for the conclusions himself, has changed his mind and argues that there may have been a conjecture just because he doesn't answer from that moment on that he is not the only supervisory firm in the Ministry of Health "APZ" from Zagreb, but he is introducing a whole series of other companies that are overseeing.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55417	Thank you. You're the one who picked up the line, aren't you? Replica, the esteemed representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55418	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Vukic states that companies have changed from hour to hour. Well, the fact is, it's been really hard to put that chain polygon somewhere where we could get to all these companies, but I'll tell you it wasn't just the Coning Group, it was the Aurom Insurance, but the almighty Internet is really coming out. "Aurom" insurance eventually changed the name, and the same seat not to speak from Zagreb to Rijeka from Rijeka to Zadar, from Zadar to Zagreb, etc., but in the end everything is found. However, what the gentleman also began, so he did not complete it is the quality of POS's apartments. It's the people of my disaster. Read a few days ago on Cres leaks water, tenants yell, Rab is a special disaster so that, and here we heard a few days ago that in Spain four months later the construction received by the Congama, right, so "Coning" group, that the halls are open and that snow is practically at the door of the apartment crash and so on. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55419	Replica response, distinguished representative Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55420	Well, you're right, Mr. Markovanovic, not only were there such security irregularities. What to say about the contract where "Congama" won the contest, it was the cheapest, let's say okay, it got, it was the cheapest not to look at those who are operatives, which can be done with their own operation, but that we, as the Committee, come across two contracts with the same amount, but in the second contract, it changed Article 7 that says that the works have to be carried out by the key system in our hands. So, under the same number of contracts with the amended items in the contract and the basis of this, an annex to the contract is concluded on a million and 525 thousand kunas for subsequent works or a net fixed price of those apartments, and where then the 11 companies that did not go to the competition because they were more expensive 250 kunas, can you imagine, and the company had designed and designed it, and we know what that means. It's clear to every builder.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55421	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative Drazen Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55422	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. It's already been said in a lot of things in this debate, so there's been some kind of space that we can talk about here, but I'd like to underline just some of the facts that seem fundamental to me, like the basic facts that are relevant to this debate here. Under number one, this Commission of Investigation was established with a fundamental task to determine whether the conclusion and realization of the contracts that our officials had concluded with the state authorities in the previous term, whether they were legal and whether there were violations of the law, but there is one other thing about which neither the investigation committee was too concentrated and listed, nor was there in today's debate about this word, and this is also the task of whether there was a breach of the principle of public morality. The principle of public morality is also laid down in the very law and the Constitution itself that it is possible to ask for the establishment of the Commission if there is any doubt that in certain matters public morality is also injured, so I think it is one of the important issues in this story. The unquestionable fact is that our state officials, one was the speaker of the parliament, the other was the government minister, that they had concluded numerous contracts with bodies at the end with the ministry he was headed and the one with some other ministries. Zlatko Tomcic, worth 12 million kuna companies where he had an indirect interest in whether he was through some other companies, Radimir Cacic means over 20 and I don't know any more millions of kunas. The legality of these contracts when I read this report is difficult to dispute. I mean, the fundamental question of whether or not there was a favor, or whether there was no favoring of any direct proof that someone in that story would have simply favored it in these materials, or whether it was possible for me to take it out at all on the table, because as well as those crimes of bribery, they are crimes that are actually very difficult to prove, and in our caselaw very few judgments for such acts are very difficult. However, our country according to all kinds of statistics, on all the scales is very, very actually high in corruption and on such phenomena. And that's right here, we're going to find it very difficult to prove any advantage, we're going to find it very difficult to prove any illegality in these stories except of course, I agree with my colleague Tomljanovic, who cited the existence in one case that he stated two contracts were concluded with the aim of changing the provisions of the key system contract in his hand and then opening up some larger maneuvering space afterwards. It is indeed a segment to which attention should be paid and which should indeed be forwarded to the State's attorney. But this is an important principle of public morality. We have to understand this whole process and this whole work that the investigating committee has been doing by me in a way that is morally and socially acceptable to us. Is it acceptable for us, Mr. Vice President, that you have a company in your possession and that this company while you sit and chair this session that it does business with state bodies at the same time? Is it socially and morally acceptable for us that the minister has a company that controls any direct stake in any other company, that the company enters into contracts with his ministry? Is that acceptable to us? And here I think despite all these differences that the commission has made, despite all these disagreements, there have been comic situations for one member of the commission to come out and speak on behalf of the commission, and the other one, in the name of the commission, to kill him and so on. But I think the members of the committee are unique and consensual. Because even, you know, when we look at this isolated opinion that my colleague Stazic expressed, we have a situation where they have fenced themselves from the fact that according to their position, the favor was not established because I also believe there is no direct evidence of it, but when they analyzed the questionable position of Minister Cacic in the whole story which was the owner of the company and who made contracts with those companies. In their own opinion, they therefore refer to the proposal for measures under point 1. And what does the proposal say about the measure under point 1? That the law regulates and prohibits the conclusion of contracts with such companies with state bodies. From this we see facts and their attitudes about it and it seems to me that it is a unique attitude, and our unique attitude would have to be about whether it is something that is neither moral nor social, it is not acceptable to us at all. And therefore, if this debate will and this report will I think it's even so intrinsic. It is not intonated to attack or condemn anyone but to actually produce some different behavior and some different principles and values in some kind of our further development and democratisation of our society. And that's why I'm estimating despite the fact that there's been a lot of debate that this is unnecessary, that this is actually a lost time I think this report is quite correct and that the opinion is quite good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55423	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55424	Kola Bošnjakovic was actually talking all the time about how the commission should have been able to discuss issues of public morality. In that case, the commission, it is incorrect, of course, because then the commission should be called differently. A committee to examine the morality of the ministers' procedures should be called. That's not the name of the commission. The commission is called the fact-finding committee. Kola Bošnjakovic said that the facts of this were not established and the public morality discussion should be opened and the issue of public morality in Croatia was the only question of public morality is that some people have come to the property they have today and which today... political decisions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The other is not a question of morality.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55425	Thank you. Kola Bosnjakovic did not say that the commission should deal with the issue of morality. He did not mention it in his debate in the context, not that the commission must deal with the issue. You're the one who broke the rules of procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55426	Mr. Vice President, Article 209. My exact quote was corrected by a colleague who was incorrect. The decision to set up this investigation committee in point 2 is very precise: "There is a public interest in the operation of the investigation committee to determine whether there has been an illegality or breach of the principle of public morality in the conclusion of a contract between companies owned or partly owned by government officials and state authorities or legal entities owned by the Republic of Croatia." So that's the job, too. So regardless of the title, you have very explicitly in point 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55427	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55428	I would like to correct the same finding because my colleague Bosnjakovic spoke in the findings that the moral question should be addressed. It is true that the question of morality was to be addressed, but the task was also to be different. And the question should be whether it's moral or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55429	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55430	In his discussion, Bosnjak spoke about morality and criminal provisions. Well, I've owned a decision since 11 June 2001 that I'm going to try to read. Decision: "The conclusion of a construction contract for the construction of housing works in Vukovar Frankopanska ulica bb, block 11D, building E1 for the programme of residential care of the victims of the Homeland War with the most favourable bidder of Congo d.d. from Varazdin for the price of 5 million 56 thousand 693,82 kuna including VAT, and I stress "the key to the system with these same prices with full functionality". On 10 October, the contract is concluded to form an annex contract and on 20 October 2002 anex contracts per million and 247 thousand kuna. And this by system key in the new contract in Article 7 has been dropped. Minister Radimir Cacic and the decisions and contracts and the annexes of the contract are signed and in front of Congama I believe there is someone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55431	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55432	There is no doubt that the report stated very precisely how many contracts in the opinion of the investigative commission and illegally, and I have also underlined what my colleague Tomljanovic has also set out as his own opinion and stated here, and these are indeed, this is the existence of the same subject of two contracts and doubt that there is this counterfeiting and in order to avoid the application of a single provision key in his hand. Namely, the key to the hand is a provision which, when concluded, carries a certain risk to both the client and the contractor. The client is at risk because he may have to pay some work that will not be done and the contractor is at risk again because he will have to perform some works that are not covered by the price that will later appear. And just from those two contracts, the existence of two contracts on the same case really raises one big doubt whether it was legal or not. Also, when it adds that a certain part of the documentation could not be obtained and, on the other hand, when it is seen that some witnesses had their own documentation on which I think it is wrong, because it is still a state document that must be stored in the state bodies themselves in the ministries, we see that the lack of documentation has in fact made it impossible only the Investigation Commission to even more precise and even more decidentially enter into that segment whether these contracts and whether these transactions were carried out in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55433	Thank you. Replica esteemed, esteemed representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55434	Dear counterpart Bošnjakovic, in his extremely correct debate that the majority of your discussions rightly pointed out the need for a moral attitude on this issue. However, this moral attitude has been formed in the Committee and you have said quite correctly that you find it in the extraordinary opinion of counterpart Lalić, me and I think Radoš has joined. When we said that the very fact that someone is a minister of construction and that they have companies or that they are co-owned by companies involved in this activity can refer to favoring, and therefore we suggest that this should be disabled by law. It is a moral view of the issue that you have quoted very correctly. But you're saying it's a unique position of the commission. It's not. That attitude had to go as an individual opinion because most did not want to accept it. So MPs from the parliamentary majority, Piploic, Markovanovic, Tomljanovic, refused to accept that moral stance. Unfortunately, he came in here only as an isolated opinion, and the need for it exists. I couldn't agree more with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55435	Ladies and gentlemen, I am taking the opportunity to welcome his Excellency to Mr Arnold Rittel, President of the Republic of Estonia at the gallery. Replication response. [[Applause.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55436	I can't agree with you in this part of my fellow Stazić. The parliamentary majority, this means that these MPs who were in the Committee of Investigation in front of the parliamentary majority also support this moral stance through this point 1 of your proposals, which is very correct, which is that, in fact, by amending the Law on Prohibition, on conflict of interest, one such provision would be put in place that would make such contracts impossible. I, from this very very point of view, see from this very point of view, and one unity of the entire Commission of Investigation in this particular matter, and this gives us all hope that the future minister, that this minister of the present and future will never again be in a position to make deals with his company. Here's what actually seems to me the most significant in the entire work of this commission and what makes you some kind of hope.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55437	Replicated representative Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55438	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear colleague Bošnjakovic, this isolated opinion is indeed our view of morality, but it is incorrect that colleagues from the parliamentary majority wanted to support it. They wouldn't support it. And then when I wondered why they wouldn't support it, then I thought the next way. It is really hard to determine what a generally accepted moral attitude is? For this general, the principle of general acceptance must have the consent of all the Croatian public and of all the Croatian people. After all that happened to us in privatization, the issue of morality and the principles of morality changed significantly. After what happens with "Kameningrad" when the government forgives half the debt of $44 million, and the prime minister does not listen to his ministers who say they work illegally but says, "Let them just work." My colleague's all relativated. And the question of legality, especially the question of morality. Otherwise, I advocate the determination of morality and the rule of morality in every society and Republic of Croatia, but these are the things that eroded us once generally accepted the moral principles of our society.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55439	Thank you. The answer to the replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55440	A question of morality, indeed, is one question that one can interpret in one way or another. But here through the measure proposed by this Committee, measure one to change the Law on Conflict of Interest, to install a provision means where ministers and government officials when they have ownership stakes in companies that such companies should not conclude contracts with state bodies in my opinion is actually a unique measure, not in my opinion, but an exact uniform measure which was unanimously adopted on that Committee. And that's what's most important in this whole story about this investigation committee. As far as the morality of conversion is concerned, it's a question that we've been discussing for two whole days. So there wouldn't really be anything special about it. But I am glad, in fact, that the members of the opposition in this Commission have also taken this position regarding the conclusion of a contract with counterpart Cacic and his companies, because in this way a certain error was recognised which was made in the mandate before, in that term, you were members of the majority. You supported such a government that had a minister in it who made such contracts. So I consider this one of your own personal moral acts that I actually welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55441	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of the Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55442	Kola Bosnjakovic spoke about morality, and those who replicated it also looked back on that morale. God, I remembered the great Tenzer, which he would say to those who spoke of morality earlier. Tenger often spoke of personal and public morality. But let's let Tenger go, let's let go of his morale. He also spoke of two very great emotions, talking about shame and shame. But let's let it go now. Kola Bosnjakovic said one was designed, built and financed, and the other was supervised. A colleague of Bošnjakovic's is completely logical and normal to me. So imagine that those two people were mixed up on the side. You'd spoil their business. Besides, they know best how they designed it, how money came about and protected each other. One was a minister, the other was what he would say was driving into this assembly. I know this one, and I remember his name, and I don't know this other one. It seems to me that now he's retired and until recently he was and how he likes to say for himself the leadership of a political party and he was even the leader of a single club. When they, when talking about their morals, are their morals especially of this pensioner, his morals and his word are as firm as the spider on the wall.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55443	Your Honor, your Honor, Mr. Lonchart.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55444	What? Replicating. [[Employed: Dear Representative Lonchart.]] It's about morality.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55445	Mr. Bošnjakovic did not mention the names or last names, especially the ones you alluded to. I allow you not to know Or you've forgotten what someone's name is. [[I'm not talking about any names either. I just mentioned Mr. Vice President.]] I'm asking you not to continue in that tone.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55446	Thank you very much for your warning. I only mentioned Mr. Chacic and I told this other guy I didn't know his name, but I remember him. I've seen him in this assembly. I've seen him in this assembly, and it seems to me he's recently been a leader of a political party to say it. We don't know what kind of man he is, but I do know that his word and his morale are as solid as a spider on a wall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55447	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Dear representative Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55448	Mr. Vice President, you have well noticed that this is a violation of the Rules of Procedure and that of Article 19, which obliges you to protect the integrity of the individual representative and this Parliament. It is a colleague who does not remember the name or the man thanks to whom he is sitting today in the Croatian Parliament. He's just talking about his morality.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55449	I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure and protected my colleague. And fellow MPs I can't take away his right or his mental ability not to remember someone's name. I can't judge about that. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55450	This lady who was now speaking called for an article
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55451	I beg you, I really ask that we do not characterise ourselves in this House and call ourselves "this lady" or "this minister" last week. I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55452	Well, ma'am, here. Sir, Mr. Vice President, the lady colleague has called for an article 19 that has absolutely nothing to do with this. And I'll say she hurt Article 209. And I'm going to say something else that she lied to both this Parliament and the Croatian public. Her party and she went on my list, not me on theirs. They flew around me for a year like a cat around hot porridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55453	Thank you. I told the esteemed representative Lalic that I didn't think it was an injury to the Rules of Procedure, as I say to you. ... Replica, esteemed, excuse me, reply to the replica, distinguished representative Bošnjaković. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55454	I just want to respond to this replica. I think there's a very important and important role for the public here. As we can see from the report, we have over 100 of these contracts that have been concluded meanings in the distance from 2000 to 2003, and as far as I can remember, I don't think any of these contracts in the public have caused, at least in the media, great noise, great attention that would actually lead to the clearing up of such situations at the time. And that's why it's very important for us to actually go public, to write about it, to talk about it. However, the presentation of the public has the same criteria. Because let's remember a year ago we had here in this House the same whole day's debate about whether the government had favored one company at buying that company in bankruptcy, whether it had guessed, whether it had lower the price. And in fact, the government only transferred its claim in relation to pension and health insurance to workers so that workers from this transfer of claims could achieve something related to their claim, for wages. It was written there in all the newspapers, and on TV for days such shows were going on. And here we see that, in fact, in that past period of 100 and some of these contracts have been concluded and we actually know very little or nothing about it. And that's why I think the public needs to be sensitized for this sort of thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55455	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Pacek.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55456	Thank you very much. Kola Bošnjaković, you see when you, as a kind of lawyer and president of the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure, do not speak in a legal language but rather in a different language, when you open the question of morality then such excesses happen in stages as we had before. In fact, it's immoral to charge someone with a political charge and bring the verdict in advance, as was wanted in the formation of this commission, I'm talking about Mr. Tomcic's case. It's obvious, and the Committee claims that, and we all know that there was nothing illegal. Obviously, there was no guessing. But what is moral, Mr. Bosnakovic? It's moral to say that it's true, here, here in Parliament we should tell you that's true. And for the future of the Commission's work, it is absolutely certain that the profession should be included, that it should, and that the best expert on commercial law, economists and other lawyers should be included here in order to establish this truth in this extremely sensitive political issue. So we've defined such a report by the Commission that Mr. Zlatko Tomcic was no match, there were no illegal shops. However, we here, or some here, speak quite differently. Well, you see, that's immoral.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55457	Replica response, distinguished representative Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55458	Look, colleague Pacek, I don't realize at all that anyone has been charged in this report. And that's exactly what I consider his actual value, that he's not accusing or crucifying anyone, but that he's opening this particular question that's proposed to measure one. That's the greatest value of this for me. And all of this, the indiction without arguments and all that, I totally agree with you that it's inappropriate, that it's not right. But, you know, that's a really crucial question. It had to be whether it was acceptable for us to have such contracts. I mean, I have to say, I don't want to call it. But as far as your party is concerned, voters have actually said something about it in both local elections and now. Well, I'm glad, and you inside the party are actually in your internal party elections partially giving an answer to that. The question of legality here is difficult to determine. The issue of corruption is difficult to determine. But the question of morality, I am pleased here and here is the unique position of all members of the Committee, and this is evident from the proposal for conclusions and measures under point 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55459	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55460	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, there's been a lot of talk about morality. I also suggest that that morale be the same for everyone. In fact, not only would it be good if state officials did not deal with state-owned firms, but also should be banned from working for cities, municipalities, counties, as well as mayors and mayors and mayors. Then it would be a little more moral. Furthermore, I can understand that in the State Attorney's Office they did not follow the work of the Committee in the seventh and eighth months because they were on vacation, but, and the media carried it very, very correctly. Namely, the media needs to be commended. They also hit the point in their reporting and really explained to people what the Commission is doing and what the Commission's goal is and what it really is, what it's all revealed there. The media will probably be able to pass it on correctly today, so unless the state's attorney's office reacts, I think it would be a good idea for us to decide to refer this material to the state's attorney's office. Because if they'd responded in time to this commission, there wouldn't have been. It is also good to react as soon as possible, because here, the self-proclaimed future prime minister is already being slightly licked that he will find a lot of work for his companies again. Because unfortunately, I don't even know that other than finishing up in Spanish, they're doing something today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55461	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55462	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's a few sentences. Alludingly, here's a colleague of Bosnjakovic's mentioned public morality here, and I'd like to try to say a few words about humanity, humanity and our relations. It's about putting someone on a certain line, unfairly, when someone hesitates, or if I were to say a sentence insinuated, accuses him in advance. The public word we say here in the House, outside the Parliament as parliamentary representatives, we need to know that there is weight, someone to blame in advance, blame almost the whole party, and that, unfortunately, they get smaller results in the party elections, but then it's questionable whether it's just an accident. I must say that, of course, nothing has anything to do with what this investigative committee has in some way found that Mr. Tomcic has not misused his powers in terms of guessing business, there is no reason why he is no longer the president of the Croatian Peasant Party. But by continuing to repeat certain things, especially in the media, of course, damage has been done to the Croatian peasant party in a certain way. I'd say when we say certain words, we have to be aware of what weight they have. Sometimes a certain word is spoken, and then, unfortunately, it is repeated, and it causes people to suffer. All of us, however, should, apart from public morale, lead to sometimes thinking about humanity that should be much greater between us at times.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55463	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55464	I actually fully agree with you, primarily for some tolerance and for relations between us and the weight of spoken words that go between us here and that are actually sent to all citizens. And that's why I said it was good, that this report is good because we're going to use this report on these examples that happened, which they were going to say they were, so they're gone, they're hardly going to sanction any of it, but we're going to build on these reports something more quality, democratic standards, and that's not a question. And that's why I said it was good that the Vice-President of the Parliament is Vice-President and that there are no companies that work with state bodies, that the minister is the minister and he runs his respective ministry and not actually cares about companies in which he has interests, and that's actually a fundamental issue here, and I don't think there's any doubt about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55465	Thank you. So we're done with the replicas. We're moving on to an individual debate. The word has a respected representative, Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55466	Thank you very much, Vice President. So here I am going to continue in this part where I have now and in the replica stopped in a certain way. I would here in this overall thinking when we talk about certain things, and especially when we look here at the report that is before us, which unequivocally found that Mr. Zlatko Tomcic did not guess, he did not influence that a particular company that was owned by him would get a certain job. I think it's been found here and there wasn't any of those who were in a certain way in most of them, and that position today was a dilemma about it. But when we look back, we have to remember how many times there are in the public ballots, how many times there have been mentioned from certain places and I would say almost greater judgment in a certain way to a certain man. I'd like to talk about that part, about that thinking, why besides this morality that was already said here, we're not talking about a certain humanity. Sometimes the injuries that are done to a man can't be corrected, nor would I say in a unanimous decision by the Commission, because they are deeply offended. They have been wronged, and sometimes all of us when we talk about it are not even aware that we do such a thing. So I will always appeal, if we are strong enough to know how much public speech means, how much our word means, to always be aware of what it means and what it brings, what it's responsible for. To accuse someone of something, to do him harm, I think it's incorrigible, and after that, I haven't even heard anyone say that maybe in at least one mild way, and you should tell someone about what was done to him. Sometimes I think that even in the heat of political struggle, however she may be and what she may be, we shouldn't go in the direction that harms a man, whoever he is, in this case we're talking about Goldilock Tomcic, but I believe that such damage has been done to many. Sometimes when we talk about such cases, you can get them from the lowest local municipal level, so here we are in Parliament, I think we should all take care of it together. If this is going to correct certain injustices, if this is going to contribute, I would say one more tolerance, but also more responsible behaviour, and that we all realize together, it's not all about doing political harm in any way or political gain, but it would be much more important for all of us to realize that sometimes it's hard to tell the lie, that sometimes it's extremely difficult when you're accused, when you're told in advance that you're guilty, and when it's repeated many times, at the end when it's found that you're not guilty, it's a big injustice. I think in this sense and these things when we're talking here, we need to take full care of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55467	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55468	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a number of incorrect allegations, I'll just do some things since it obviously concerns the most of us who have spoken. Well, it's not true we should apologize. If a company like "Capital Ing" operates almost exclusively with the state and with the City of Zagreb, the state has contracts for over 2 million to 3 million a year, then it is clear that there is a reasonable doubt that something is wrong, and in the end it turns out that it is not only a doubt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55469	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Loncar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55470	counterpart Pankretic said his former boss had done nothing against the law. That's not true. Even from this investigation committee, we can see that his two contracts are against the law, and by Mr. Cacic, five of them are against the law. Then you said that it was undoubtedly found that he did not favor his company. I don't think that's true either, and the best denial is that you and your group are because you replaced him from the leadership of the party and the leader of the Parliament Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55471	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55472	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Pankretić would have replicated in the part where he kept saying literally as if the findings of the investigation committee and the whole procedure against Mr. Tomcic had been the indictment, the indictment, or that someone had accused him in any sense in the first place directly of anything. I will remind you, and I am saying this for the public that the basic facts to be read here are that Mr. Tomcic was the president of the Croatian Parliament at the time. That the irrefutable fact that he was a participant, so the owner of 22% of this company we're talking about as a commercial company, and that this particular company during his term, with state-owned companies, with the ministries, made contracts, that small company, now that I'm not talking about the number, so let's say about 10 million kuna, which is not a small amount of money. So, in terms of the charges, the indictment so when it comes to the former President of the Parliament, then it would be correct, and also because of the public, the media does not charge the painting and transfer to those other things when other people of public life and other politicians were in the same or similar situation, in which they were actually accused. In conclusion, about the very essence of my replica, I don't think, and I really don't think that the delivery of accurate factual data, 22% of the core capital in the company, therefore owned or co-owned by the authorities of the state administration in this amount. I do not see why these 3 elements would be the elements of any indictment and such persistent defense of Mr Tomcic at the time as President of the Parliament, as he was particularly accused by one of the members of the commission directly of any criminal action.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55473	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55474	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Tomljanović, so look, I mean, first of all, you need to know that we are primarily defending the truth, and in this case we want to make it very clear that we should be in a situation where the media, and there were countless of them if we look back 5, 6 and more years that bring certain statements daily, speak of it, almost impaling you on the cross. When a statement of responsible persons is made to that effect, those of us who are in this part of it, so our word is special weight, it's almost a charge. Whether we wanted to or didn't want to agree. You, when you speak in a purely legal language, I fully understand. My discussion was on the other side of the human side. On the human side of us all because I think sometimes you can imagine what kind of situation we'd be in. But the commission found almost unanimously that Mr. Zlatko Tomcic had no influence on obtaining business in which he was part owner. And it's clearly written there. And I'm talking about what was clearly written in the committee statement, and I'd say, what was created as a certain public opinion, as one reflection, and if you'd asked someone a few years ago about it, they'd all say, if he had guessed, he must have set it up, etc. But that's not true, there you are, and you've confirmed it yourself. So I'm talking about this one human dimension where we should all be a little bit more careful with the words and towards us as humans, so that we don't bring one of us back to the position where Zlatko Tomcic was today.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55475	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Zuzul.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55476	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. ... I wanted to stay this way on the common rhetoric I would sign everything that the distinguished MP Pankretic said. [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] As much as I think you could add a lot to that, what he said. I welcome your discussion, but let's be honest, open and realistic. It applies only to your member, not to anyone else. Because as proof of that, I will be not generally principled but very personal. Your party member is a respected representative, Lalic, mentioned me twice today. Why and how? I never had a company that did business with the state. So I couldn't find myself in this story in any way. I have never objected to the establishment of any, here and now publicly speaking, of any commission that will deal with me. I've called the D.A.'s office to deal with me, which we could discuss whether others or not, it doesn't apply in your story, and you'll probably say that to me because I'm from another party after all. If we're going to talk about general principles, we stick to the general principles, everyone, and everything. And in that respect, I agree with you, but using general principles just for some and only once, I think it's pure political demagogy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55477	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55478	Mr. Vice President. Comrade Zuzul, you're wrong. It was a matter of principle to everyone and to you and if you followed my discussion well, I didn't mention you in any word. I've originally stopped at this point at what we're talking about, and we're talking about Mr. Goldilock Tomcic, and I'm basically standing on it. In my discussion, I thought of all of us who could meet in that situation. It's a good thing you called because you felt it. You can also tell your other colleagues who sometimes, here's everyone here that we are, maybe they're not aware when they say one more difficult word that she has far-reaching consequences and isn't tested and reasoned on the facts. I stand for the general principle, and I will always stand for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55479	Thank you. Dear Representative Bagaric, did you lift the replica board? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55480	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Zuzul literally replicated a part of what I wanted to replicate to my colleague Pankretić, but I still think it is very important to respond to one of your allegations, or to one of your statements when you said that damage was done to the Croatian peasant party. How's the damage done? So, I agree that she was hurt and I also don't belong to the category of those who will say that this or that has been done because I really have no knowledge or idea what has been done, which has not been done when it comes to crime. In addition to this correct report we have heard here, that is, everything this commission has done. That means we have the data that they provided us with, that they gave us, that they provided us with. However, I have a need to say this. When you said "the damage was done" whatever Mr. Tomcic was at the time the president of the Parliament and the party president, guilty or not, was just, he did the most damage to HSS. Why? Because you simply can't be president of the Parliament and have your own company and work with them, and then people don't ask questions, don't ask many questions, show doubts and don't want to know the truth. So, as we touch that space, of course it will be done. I'm undermining, the greatest damage done by Mr. Tomcic and the foreigners and the Parliament and you here personally right now in this debate, including me because I'm an agent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55481	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55482	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'm glad my colleague agrees in the most important part of my discussion, and I actually believe that this discussion of mine will contribute to the future with certain reflections of all colleagues, including those who here have the opportunity to perform both publicly and already... things, but I have to say and you know that sometimes certain things are being abused, so here's where there's a certain I'd say it's awkward, maybe in certain things, but if they're being potent, and if they really want to put particular emphasis on a particular piece of work, and if you have almost a whole story on the news or on television, then it's directly directed and doing damage to a particular party, and that's what is the fact that if in that part of you can say that there was a cause so that nobody has any firm or any interest in any company can be, but unfortunately, we'll all have to look at who has any share in which company, who does, and then define certain things and whether our Law on conflict of interest is the most effective in that work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it's one question for a general debate, but what I'm appealing to again. The damage was done to the Croatian peasants, it was done by those who specifically affected that part and then they connected it to that if the people you repeat to a dozen times something that is here is clearly not true now, and that is that Mr. Tomcic directly shot at his company, people remain somewhere and now what is going to be in the debate today, which the Commission has made sure you won't spin so many times in the media, and you could now twist in the last 5, 6 years how many times this reverse thesis of untruth and now compared to this which was determined by the Commission which... It is a certain injustice which was also done to Mr. Zlatko Tomcic, and it has particularly affected the Croatian Peasant Party. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55483	Thank you. Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55484	Thank you, Mr. President. It seems to me that we are approaching the end of a debate on a slightly empty and rather pointless subject. In fact, if the intensity and good results of this commission's work were raising democratic standards, establishing new norms, morals, the functioning of government officials, and so on, and so on, but we should have done it in another way, there are laws that talk about it, and we should have applied those laws, and then we should have changed them. Most of the discussion here today reminds me of those trials in the good old Westerns when the judge says we're going to judge you fair and square, and then we're going to hang you. A number of representatives and members of the Committee made that public and clear when we entered the Committee we expected these and such results. So, they were expecting, the hangers were already built, and the fair trial was done. The commission's mission was to determine the facts. The facts are perfectly clear, Mr. Bosnjakovic said the facts. Everything that was done was done in accordance with the laws that were applicable at that time, especially with regard to the ownership of the company. The former minister transferred his property to the attorney's office when the law did not prescribe it at all, when the law prescribed that governing rights be transferred to someone else, he returned the management rights to someone else, to the law office, everything according to the law. If there's something immoral, then the discussion should be conducted on another level not at this level here. Everything else is also in the report of the insinuation of the type of sentence could be concluded, from which it is done, so there is probably something else behind it, something else third, dear God knows only what it stands, there are no concrete facts. The documents were missing, some were still missing, because imagine the authorities who had to deliver them didn't deliver them, and now instead of the suspect having to prove the suspicion, the suspect has to prove he's innocent because he doesn't have the documents, he has to prove he's innocent. It is not only contrary to all the fundamental rights settings, but above all the presummation of innocence but it reminds us of some of the processes that were conducted in other times, in other countries which we were part of, and which the basic setting was your fault because you are not ours, and if we find the arguments we will find, if not guilt remains. It would be finally time to finish this farce. If former Minister Cacic was for 4 years, he has been a minister for almost 4 years since then, the independent judiciary and an objective judiciary and the State's Attorney's Office have done nothing in all that time. So, if he's guilty, then really let all the material and that meter of material the colleague of Letica announced had a meter of material against Cacic and that meter of material and all the other meters of material go to the State's Attorney's Office. If he's guilty, he'll end up where the guilty belong. If not guilty, let this debate be the last in that and such a topic and finally find out that this magician no longer has rabbits in his hat, that he does not take it out before every election, before every campaign, every time we come to a whole other conflict party on a completely different subject, that rabbit gets out of his hat, so that we can put him away once and it doesn't happen again. In fact, dear gentlemen, most of the votes you can determine that today is Friday, most of the votes you can find out that there's a fight out there, but it's not going to change the calendar, it's Wednesday and it's a cold sunny day outside. The facts are facts, and no matter how loudly they talk, no matter how many hands they have, that fact won't change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55485	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55486	Mr. President, I would like to correct the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague who specifically said, quote: "There are no concrete facts in this report." This is absolutely incorrect, this report is crawling with precisely established facts, and I will only tell you for the illustration of only one, that for a certain legal relationship were concluded on the same day two contracts, that one contract respects the supervisory authority, given the other contract respected for the contractor's works that there was an erasure of the clause key to the other specifically established facts that I'm not even talking about. You're an expert lawyer, so as far as these facts are concerned, you figure out what they're like as natural facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55487	And another correction by the respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55488	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, it is incorrect that some members of the committee had prejudged the people we were actually talking about there. If we were to make mistakes, that's why we started the commission. So there's nothing right here. Furthermore, it is incorrect that Mr. Chacic gave up all rights. Namely, the transfer of rights, the management rights to the office is a show for the unlisted because ownership of Coning alf was returned the same year before paying dividends from a series of companies to which Alpha coning is the majority owner. And the third irregularity. It's incorrect that this cowboy trial was but it has the elements of the cowboy defense.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55489	About 30 years ago, a cartoon was published in the newspaper of Otto Reissinger, which read, "Because of the delay in time, the hanging will take place immediately and the trial continues tomorrow." And a respected representative of the board president Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55490	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let me, with just two, three sentences at the end of this morning's work, refer to this debate in the name of the committee. I think she's on her way to some quieter waters now. Well, this observation of yours now suggests and calls for a calming passion over this debate. Several highly noted attacks by colleagues Bosnjakovic and the intervention of colleagues Zuzula, a colleague of Pankretic, cannot list everything. Don't let my colleagues blame me. She has rightly warned of the point, the essence of which, in future as a parliament and as a society, we should devote ourselves and it is also contained in the proposal for the conclusion of our commission, i.e. that as a society, we have a problem. That as a society, we have a problem if we show up to solve, resolve the situation when he is an official, owner, co-owner of some company and at the same time an official may then those companies in which he is co-owner do business at all or do not deal with the authorities of the state, with the ministries, with units of local self-government. It would be good if this report on two specific cases were to be an incentive that, I don't know how many more reported for the debate, to direct the debate in that tone because it would be far more useful than the intonation that prevailed at the beginning of this morning's debate and which you now Mr. President funnyly characterized as hanging for which there is not enough time, namely for the trial there is not enough time so the hanging will be carried out immediately and the trial will continue tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55491	Thank you very much. Now we'd end the debate. We've got four more MPs. The first is the honourable representative Miljenko Doric. So, four MPs and one club in five minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, continue the session. Dear Representative Miljenko Doric, please... [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55493	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to say, before I go on the subject, that I am sitting here in the Croatian Parliament not to protect or defend the interests of Mr. Cacic, Mr. Lesar, Mr. Vuljanić, or any of you, but to represent my Istrana, Gorana, Primors and islanders. Today, in earlier afternoons after a heated debate in front of TV cameras, calls were heard just before the camera shut down, that we should bring the debate to an end, peacefully and that we should all practically turn everything into a pleasant story about the need to introduce new moral standards in the work of this Parliament. But you forgot that until then, everything that some wanted and had to do was done in front of those TV cameras. Please, about Mr. Cacic and his companies, they've been spinning the same stories for 10, 12 years, and here we've heard these stories repeated in various forms. Here, many lawyers have warned us that it is a harsh violation of the law, that it is a violation of the law, that it is a violation of laws and regulations, various assessments we have heard at least 15 times and more. But, colleagues and colleagues, if we are all for the rule of law, I ask you why none of you, especially a fellow lawyer, did anything to use clearly the means of the rule of law, to finally bring the story with Cacic to an end, to get him out of the economic race and out of the political race if that's what you're saying. I'm not a lawyer, so I'm gonna turn this story into a medical story, since I'm a doctor. So 10, 12 years ago, there was a suspicion that there was a disease, so there was talk of that suspicion for 10, 12 years. Then finally, one group of doctors on November 24, 2004 diagnosed a work diagnosis and then formed a console of seven doctors who worked for a year and three months to finally try to obtain a final diagnosis. The result of such a work of the consili today brought us before no less than four diagnosiss. One diagnosis of three people from the consulate and three separate diagnosiss. So then, out of those four diagnosiss, we got nothing less than five treatment protocols. These three mentioned, then one of the colleagues agreed that maybe therapy should also be set up in a way to mention the state's attorney's office for the first time and then we have three more separate therapeutic protocols. I ask you colleagues and colleagues, that any doctor treats his patient or his patients in this way, so that he can pass. With full right, he would be condemned not only by members of the family of that patient, not only by the media, not just by the courts, not just by his colleagues at work, but clearly by the Chamber of Doctors and all others. But when lawyers do it, when we politicians do it to no one at all, it's perfectly allowed to function in this way. You guys might agree with that. I can't. I definitely can't agree with that. It's humiliating to me what I heard, that we couldn't get documents from the government and the state authorities, or our colleagues couldn't get documents. Today is the first time we've heard the documents really don't exist. In order to get those individual departments' villages, the documents were lost. That's what I first heard here today. So why did the colleagues train five times to get those documents? Why didn't you just say no papers, no papers, we can't send you anything? On the basis of incomplete documentation, can any decision be made, the conclusions can be proposed to the Croatian Parliament. I think it's incorrect, I don't think, but I know it's incorrect. All I have to do is thank Mrs. Lalic and Mr. Stazic. In one of the most decent ways today, they presented the problem they met with, in good intentions to do better, better quality, more dignity. It was in the debate touched a lot of things. I will not repeat myself, but I would certainly like to warn that a colleague has even said that successful businessmen should not be concerned with politics. I won't even comment on it. We know what an American Congress and the Japanese Parliament would look like if their successful businessmen were not involved in politics and should not be involved in politics. I can't accept that. That we need to develop mechanisms so that they are clearly not in conflict of interest, that they can agree, but these sayings in this House are really pointless. My colleagues and colleagues, we talked today about the conflict of interest of two people, and nobody here said that just a month ago in all the newspapers and all the media were counting on each other in the conflict of interest, that they were receiving salaries, fees, incomes from other sources, too, besides our salaries. So we judge people based on incomplete documentation, and we definitely know what we're doing and how we're doing. I can't accept such double criteria, and I don't agree with much of what's been said today, but in order to be correct, these distinguished guests of ours who have already sat here don't keep too long, I will stop here, but I must admit that I am absolutely unhappy with what the Commission has done and the way we've been having the debate today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55494	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55495	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague here said an incorrect and offensive allegation, that colleagues in front of TV cameras had to do it. We didn't have to, our conscience required of us. Other incorrectly about how to treat. That one doctor, for example, was involved in the case of a case. Dr. Bajic, that would have been cured already, but the consilium was here, and you know it from practice that there is often a disagreement there.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55496	Dr. Crescent. Bajic is a very delicate doctor and let's not put him in a position. And another correction to the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Marko Turic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55497	Mr. President, since the esteemed representative mentioned the medics and many of them were consils, etc., so by seeking a diagnosis, they came up with several diagnosiss. So it's about a sick person who's very sick. We say in medicine it's an extended disease of the entire organism and yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55498	You are not correcting your friend Turic's incorrect indication of the patient and of the disease.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55499	That's exactly what I'm sorry. That's exactly what not all doctors here, so this termology so they don't realize that there's no medicine. The patient is incurable, his active medicine is gone, but he can be helped so-called. symptomatic therapy so he doesn't hurt and sleep. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55500	Then help yourself in particular to one of the words that the operation has worked, and the patient is. Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55501	Thank you, Mr. President. I was going to say a lot more, but since the debate went the way it went, I'll only stick to some details regarding the establishment of the Committee and the measures proposed by the Commission. In our time when we were making and making a decision to form the Commission and when we formed the Commission we in the CNS have advocated that this job which was defined to go to the Commission for a decision on conflict of interest because we felt that the government, in fact the party and parties acting in power had the instruments they needed to examine whether someone was working under the law or not, and that such an instrumentation of the ruling party had, and if the commissions were to be set up, then, in any case, the investigative committees should establish an opposition that the instrumentation does not have. That's when we said, and now I repeat there are police, there's the State's Attorney's Office, there's the BOLO, there's institutions that can do the job, and today there's been some suggestions that all the paperwork goes to that address. That is why there is a question of the purpose of such a committee at all. We suggested that everything the commission did go to the right address the way it was set up. If requests had been made differently, the Commission probably shouldn't have done anything. However, even now that the Committee was founded and in that Committee, having had four hands, the opposition had three hands. In any case, any decision could be made and the results could be made. Whether the paperwork arrived or not four hands across from three hands are always the majority. However, justifying that the ministry has been divided into several ministries and that no documentation can be obtained is quite funny if it is known that all documents concerning any copies of these documents must be in the Ministry of Finance. So everything that's been shared perhaps by various ministries had to be in the Ministry of Finance and there could have been this file. Now something very little about the conclusions, actually, in the measures that the Commission is proposing. Amendments and additions to the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest are proposed. When we from the Committee also proposed this to Mr Palaric at a joint meeting and when we asked for almost equal measures that what is now being installed in that law you remember in those amendments and additions that we all brought together, some voted for, some against, which we brought here no one said that it should be deleted, means that the share that should be deleted or something like that that is now proposed, which I ultimately do because of what my colleague Miljenko said or disagreed with. The second proposal to refer the documentation to the Committee on Conflict of Interest. Does that even make sense now? Why? The Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest has entered into force once all these actions have already been completed. So it's even about the period when these things happen. It's absurd. We're going to direct everything to the Committee, the Committee can't discuss it at all, so it doesn't make any sense. And the third point, why didn't the government deliver the paperwork? She could, I said already the government could deliver all the documentation anyway, it was probably in someone's interest not to deliver the documentation, maybe not, but there were five times asked to file the delivery so they didn't, why I don't know, but all the documentation in any case existed in the Ministry of Finance from which the ministries were copies of some and delivered to the Committee because some who were coming for questioning had just received the documentation from the Ministry of Finance. And what about today's debate? I've had an invitation here since October 25th, '95. where a press conference was held at the Hotel "Turist" in Varazdin at 10 o'clock, it was called by the Croatian Privatisation Fund, the Varazdin District Office where the theme of the press conference was "the biggest robbery in Croatia's conversion to Varazdin", which was '95. A year. At the press conference, it was said that Cacic and his society, as it was written, had committed the biggest robbery in privatisation. After that, the Constitutional Court and his company was taken from him, taken from him "Coning" and moved to the Privatisation Fund and then, after 2 years of the Constitutional Court, I also have a date, the Constitutional Court of 27.10 means not after 2 years, but after 4 years, 27.10.'99. In its decision, it abolishes the annulment of that privatisation. Every time, gentlemen, every time you need a rabbit to say that in HNS, they're like, like, none, or when you need Cacic, the thief is as nice as Nikola Vuljanic said, put your hand in a hat like a magician, pull out Cacic and say he's a thief. You've got all the instruments. You've got the police, you've got the state's attorney's office, you've got the jump, and I don't know how they're not called institutions that can do it. Well, if that's how you can do it now, you could've done it and in 1995 something like that was written. Or tell the thief he is. Or say he's not a thief. Because he's done a little bit so someone pulls out a rabbit and says he's a thief. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55502	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55503	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! Here, it's completely incorrect that this conclusion was made and a final report with four hands to three hands. Just before the vote, there were three hands on the front of three hands, and just a member of your party, Mr. Kapraljevic, came out right before the vote. Evil media say on purpose because of their own ambitions in the party. I didn't say that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55504	And the esteemed representative Ivo Loncar corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55505	Mr. Kapraljevic in his very inspired debate bid whether Mr. Cacic was a thief or not. I think that's incorrect. I can't believe it. Mr. Cacic is not a thief for sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55506	Thank you. Dear Representative Jaksa Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55507	After so many smart words all morning and all day I'm no longer sure I could say something smart. But there's something I have to say. In the Ministry of Public Works, I do not know what was still called, there was a commission to select the contractors and to select project houses, designers, so the selection of supervisory authorities and each of these committees was a representative of the Croatian Employers' Association. I don't think anyone mentioned it even though it says it in this report. So, as one of the stakeholders. In fact, the vast majority of entrepreneurs are members of the Croatian Employers' Association, and therefore this was also in some way control and control of what was done in the negotiation of the works that the ministry was doing. At the end of everything that happened out of 100%, that I'm not talking about the 3 billion figures and something or how many billions have already been, there's been a suspicion of 2,62% or 225 million. It's interesting how that figure came to be 2.62% or 2.56%. Why didn't it occur to someone else to control it? You think it's only possible through companies, through the company's property to take the money. Well, they know a lot of people who took money and those who never owned it, and they didn't have the idea of owning it. I don't mean to defend Mr. Chacic, he's strong enough and strong enough. Mr. Cacic, unlike many others, was a gentleman before 1990. He lives in a house he built before 1990, which he had in 1989, so he didn't change the house. And many should look in the mirror and think about where they lived until 1990, where their dwellings are until 1990 and what they have today. That would be very good, many of us probably. I must tell you, by the way, that what I know about leadership, the complete leadership of the Croatian People's Party has not changed houses or apartments from 1990 to today. They had her, too. They have her today. The third thing I wanted to say. It is also interesting to have the task of this committee given six points and an initiative that expired in its time before the task was formed, voted in this House. I don't know if it's him, I've been completely to those who've raised their hands for him and I'm not even sure about the members of the committee. In fact, the commission draws conclusions at six points. So you have four positions and three oppositions again. And interestingly, isolated opinions all give, both position and opposition to six points. Let's just say they've been unanimously adopted but all the opinions they've all given. And now, how about a report like that, what to conclude from all that. I don't know what to say smartly. I think it was best formulated by the President of the Parliament through a comment by Raisinger's cartoons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55508	Thank you. Now we're done with the individual debate. We've got a few more minutes of club debates. First respected representative Dragutin Lesar Club of HNS Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55509	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! We received at the beginning and began to discuss the report of the investigative committee but the debate also took place on what they did not observe, explored and what they did not give in their findings and in particular the three MPs from the ranks of the Croatian Democratic Community. In fact, this debate today points to the conclusion that neither today was there in this Chamber a desire to determine the truth. The only thing I could see was that the evil power of the word was being used. The word has terrible evil power. And it was used not once but a few dozen times and it went to the fact that the error was as strong as the truth. And a colleague even a member of the commission said that he was having his discussion and he was leading in order for the Croatian Radio-Television audience to see and hear it. It was the clearest message that we want to use the evil power of the word and not discuss what it says in the papers but what I think about it. The goal was to attack and continue the attack on counterpart Cacic. The charges are made which are: there is doubt. It's a guess. It can't be turned off. It can't be determined. And is it moral? Is it really moral to do that? Is it moral for political opponents to be calculated like this? There's a suspicion. It's a guess. It can't be turned off. It can't be determined. And is it moral? Is public morality just what it is when we question someone else? Not me and mine. But not our colleague Bosnjakovic. This same Assembly of the same days had the opportunity to establish another commission on public matters. It wasn't done. But the public morale of part of the opposition was to be questioned. Reigning not because it is obvious that only opposition can come into doubt of public morality. The government itself is moral. As soon as it's power she's moral. And there's nothing to question. Now I'm asking if it's moral? Only yours, not ours. Public morality requires one, the other, the third and all. The commission proposes that we supplement the Law on conflict of interest. I'll take it. I also propose the Law on the Rights and Obligations of State Officials to be complemented in a way that prohibits them from having property, administrative rights, business in the territory of the Croatian State. Not enough? We prohibit them from operating in the territory of the European Union. That's when we're safe. And there won't be any amoral shops, but let's decide what we want in the laws? The question of morality cannot be determined by our discussions but by the legal settings. And at the end of the morning I asked a question. Is this what we're doing here? With this chewing gum? No, I don't. And for the next two years Radimir Cacic will be subject to the same questions, the same claims, the same moves, when needed. We have the club's decision to vote for the conclusion proposal. I'm going to ask for a club session to reconsider that conclusion for today's debate. Not because of three points. So long as a member of the Committee publicly, colleague Piploic, does not answer my question. And he said, "We all know what we had to find." Who told the members of the committee what they had to find? Only then will we make the final decision because of the way the argument continues without any evidence, without any argument only with a desire, with the sole desire for the topic to remain so long in public, political speech as long as someone needs it. That's what you'll do next. I'm sure of it. But it won't do you any good. You won't get the effect you want. Because you had a chance to do it through this investigation committee to do it. And he shouldn't be nervous. You don't have to be angry. Facts. [[Good. Thank you very much.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55510	Thank you very much. Okay. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Ivo Lončar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55511	A colleague said, "As soon as power is moral and opposition is immoral." That's completely incorrect, and I'll prove it to you with the next explanation. In the previous assembly of the Parliament, your party was part of a coalition that ruled Croatia for 4 years, and in this House we discussed a wheat affair that was a difficult billion kuna. It was such criminals and just look at the phonograms that your colleagues were talking about at the time, and even the Assembly's conclusion was that it was to be directed to the State's Attorney's office and to check out everything I said about this affair, but it never saw the light of day. So remember again what power is like whether it's moral or immoral and remember the time from four years ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55512	Dear Representative Frano Piploic. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55513	Well, I'd like to correct a respected colleague. Apparently, in this last finding of his, I said what he just said. I didn't say that to a respected colleague that everyone knows what we should do but I said like this, I wrote this down, "We served for fun." I was talking about the Committee. "For fun, and now we're going to be Pedro because we haven't discovered anything, and everybody knows there's something there." That's what I said to my esteemed colleague. And the end of the quote. ... Here you go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55514	Yeah, yeah. The answer only knows the wind, the answer only knows the wind. HDZ club respected representative Emil Tomljanovic, a five-minute debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55515	Thank you, Mr. President. The Croatian Democratic Community's representative club holds that the Investigative Commission strictly adhered to the Commission's decision to set up an investigative committee to answer all seven questions which are raised, and I will specify them that we do not break up again in some debates which are not directly related to the Commission's Decision. So first, whether there was an illegality or a violation of the principle of public morality. Absolutely in these materials therefore stands the answer to that question as well as to all others. So were the government officials owners or part-owners of companies? Whether or not it points to the legality or illegality of all concluded contracts with all elements of illegality mentioned above. All names of persons who have concluded those contracts are indicated. According to the Public Procurement Act, who was responsible for the commission’s work? To answer the question in which segment, did the state officials therefore mentioned in the decision favour those companies in the procedures of such contracts, and all other relevant facts are also mentioned, I repeat, concerning those specific tasks which this investigation committee had which were specified by the Decision establishing the investigation committee. In this regard, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community pursuant to Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and after the debate has been held on the report with a proposal for measures of the Research Commission to determine the facts relating to the concluded contracts between state bodies and companies owned or partly owned by officials. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community's Club proposes to adopt the following conclusion: The HDZ Representatives' Club after everything exposed and taking into account the report of the State Audit of 2003 proposes to the Croatian Parliament that the entire documentation collected in the Committee's work be referred to the State's attorney's office for further action. In addition to this conclusion, let me just look back at two sentences regarding the government's documentation and relationship and the documents submitted in relation to the work of the Research Commission. Certain documents, for these or those reasons, should indeed be said, were not in front of the Commission when deciding on certain points that were on the agenda. Overall, by assessing the work of the Research Commission, it had absolutely no effect on all points to the details of the debate, to make decisions and conclusions at these points and to switch to any extent obstruction or thus obstructing the work of the Commission by not having enough relevant data or in terms of not delivering relevant data we are not to any extent having an impact on the work of the Research Commission, giving an answer to this question and therefore I will end up with the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supporting that proposal of the measures proposing a conclusion in this regard as I did.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55516	Thank you. And the club of IDS representatives, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55517	Your Honor, Your Honor, gentlemen of the Parliament. Well, we'll probably all agree in one thing that we're all bloody under the skin here, starting with me, starting with you gentlemen representatives, our direct government across the street, gentlemen of the review, the prosecution or the state's attorney's office, our judges, the HRT, the media, etc. And those who participated in this conversion, etc. I won't waste my words. But I want to do something else again that I already said. It's hard for everyone in their business life. In order to pay three thousand kuna, you must earn your brother 15 grand. And that's true. And the one who doesn't feel it in his life has never done it. In order to pay 100 salaries you must earn a million kunas a year, with contributions there are 50 workers who support not our salaries, but some other salaries. And that's just the truth. It's easy to share money from the budget, from public companies, from state-owned companies. It's easy to be at the head of some monopolies system, but to perform, performing on the market is extremely ungrateful. But it's also easier, I guess we'll agree, so it was easier to do business with Mr. Cacic's name or Mr. Tomcic's name than any other anonymous name. As it is today in 2006, it is easier to do business with the name of a minister or an anonymous name. So anyone who was in politics before that kind of political life was involved, some were judges, some were doctors, some were peasants, some were soldiers, some were entrepreneurs. And this is the last one we can't eliminate from the market either, but these last ones shouldn't abuse their position if they're in some representative public function. We must also not underestimate this commission for public perception. 0.24% is not Mrs. Lalic like you said nothing, but 0.24% is 12 million kuna. And also 2.24% is nothing, it's 225 million kuna and that 225 million kuna is not marginal money. So we have, I don't know, two principles when it comes to the participation of people in politics in business life. Croatia, understandably, is not Cambodia, is no longer ruled by a Half-Point regime or never is, so that someone who should have taken the matter up with politics. But the one who's in business should stay out of politics no matter what the capital's got in politics today. Mr. Doric expressed my surprise on that claim, but I insist on it. And finally, the central question, how is someone in the '90s, '91? came up with a capital that we know for 55 lives he couldn't have gotten it. It doesn't matter to Mr. Marasovic that house in '89. It's that massive factory someone acquired after the '90s. A year. Finally, this report is superficial, but it is clear to everyone that with, I don't know, some name from the government has always been easier to trade, or business. Last one, who rules Croatia? I argue, this Parliament should, but that is not the case, this country is becoming increasingly and more unfortunately ruled by capital, i.e. representative media, and the more time goes by it will be more pronounced. And for the end, don't gentlemen have two, three, four, five criteria. One for Tomčić, the other for Cacic, the third for Caine, the fourth for Mr. Zuzul, the fifth for Mr. Doric, the sixth for Mr. Marasovic, the seventh for Mr. Radin, Seks etc. That, if that's how it goes, I just... It turns itself and everything clearly into a political perversion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what's worse is that we're turning this House into a courtroom with this kind of debate. Today, there's still time, today is the left-hand side of defense, the right-wing prosecutor, this center is, I don't know, a jury, and in two or three months' time, the roles will change. And once again, we're all gentlemen under different skins.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55518	Please correct three incorrect allegations. First, respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović. And what are you giving up? That's right. Okay. And respected representative Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55519	So I'm correcting my colleague Cain's quote. My colleague Cain, I didn't say that 0.24 is nothing, that's just as much, but that's income, you know, but it's not profit. You, as an economist, should know that. It is income, and profit is what remains when all expenses are paid, all taxes etc. So when you quote something, at least be correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55520	You want some peace. And the esteemed representative Frano Piploic. It's not everything in the cups.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55521	Dear colleague Caine has made one conclusion that this report is superficial. Dear fellow, this report is not superficial. It's just as deep as the possibilities have come to know the truth about what was the subject of this. I don't think we should talk about it like that anymore, because today this report is dying, and today this Committee is dying. And I said, what we knew, we sang it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55522	I'm closing the debate. A report with a proposal for measures of the Research Commission to determine the facts regarding the concluded contracts between state bodies and companies owned or partly owned by officials. I'm voting on the next conclusion. The report shall be adopted with a proposal for measures taken by the Research Commission to determine the facts relating to the concluded contracts between state bodies and companies owned or partly owned by officials. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that with 73 votes for and 19 abstentions and 6 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55526	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Finance had an obligation to bring together reports on the activities undertaken to remove irregularities in the findings of the State Audit Office for 2003 and planned measures for the long-term removal of irregularities. Therefore, the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament of 14 April 2005 tasked the ministries and other bodies of the state administration and public authorities to report on the measures taken on the findings of the State Audit Office for 2003 and to deliver a programme for the long-term removal of irregularities. For the co-ordination of the report on behalf of the Government, the Ministry of Finance, which collected data from the audited entities on the measures taken to remove irregularities and on planned activities based on the 2003 State Audit findings. The ministries submitted reports on the measures taken as well as the plan of activities to be taken within those deadlines and on 22 September 2005 the government sent a report to the Croatian Parliament. At the same time, it should be noted that when the reports were delivered to the Croatian Parliament, the State Audit Office completed the audit for 2004 and, of course, already in that audit and the reports we will hear soon, it was evident that most of the irregularities observed in 2003 were removed. The introductory part of the general reports of the State Audit provides an overview of the shortcomings and irregularities in the previous audit and is already visible from these reports what the authorities of the State Administration have done in some ways. For example, in the part of the accounting budget, many irregularities have been removed and all short-term loans are now recorded, kuna and foreign exchange changes are recorded daily, all obligations for issued bonds and a number of other recommendations needed to carry out the based State audit report for 2003 have been recorded. The register of bonds has been established, and the concession register is currently being established, and the Ministry of Finance will have under the supervision of all concessionaries in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and will be able to monitor the settlement of their obligations. In part of the public debt management function of the public debt system, it will be supported by the technical assistance programme and the procurement of a new IT system under the CARDS programme, the European Union called "Improvement of Public Debt Management" in the part of the State audit findings relating to the receipt records of loans given, correct recording and presentation of receipts in the net principle is fully handled by order. Receipts from loans and bonds are correctly recorded in all records at the same amounts and corresponding... The bills. [[You don't understand.]] In 2004, a short-term debt was fully recorded in the accounts, which earlier would not have been the case, i.e. the backdrop of the State Audit for 2003. In the part of the issue and registration of guarantees, state audit findings show what is visible both in 2004 and in 2005 and now in 2006. According to the 2004 audit, the state budget is therefore subject to 27 orders and recommendations. For certain activities related to the borrowing of financial reporting, balance sheet and establishment of the State Treasury, it is necessary to work systematically and long-term to establish it properly. Therefore, the Ministry of Finance in the narrow section acted on all the findings of the state audit and for the list of assets at the border crossings there was an implementation plan in the part of the customs and tax administration, also undertaken everything indicated. Of course, other users of the state budget have acted according to the findings of the State Audit Office, in part or in full, or have listed periods and plan of activities under which irregularities will be removed. In 2003, some audited entities did business in an irregularity-free manner, with an unconditional opinion for 2003, received 7 subjects of state budget beneficiaries. It should be noted, therefore, that in 2004, which confirms this report, an even greater number of audited entities received unconditional opinion, therefore, did business without irregularities. So 17 of them did business without any irregularities of 45 as far as it was audited. Or 38%, which is far more favourable than it was in 2003. It is true, of course, that certain irregularities are repeated year after year. The most common observation is, therefore, the part of the application of accounting standards and public procurement, but also, of course, what is important and undeniable is the fact that most of the budgetary entities take measures and activities to improve their business and have budgetary resources, meaningful and economical. As regards the report on the activities to prepare the single list of state assets, it should therefore be said that in 2004 and during the first 6 months of 2005, and in the second part, therefore significant developments were made throughout 2005 in the establishment and keeping of property records owned by the Republic of Croatia in one place, and the development of local administrations and self-government was significantly assisted through the efficient availability of real estate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55527	Thank you very much. Chief State Auditor, Ms. Šima Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55528	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, there's 11 in front of you. State Audit Office's report. According to the law, we are obliged to submit an annual report on our work and audits, so we did it this time. I just have to point out here that the office currently has 281 employees. So for several years we've been stagnating on the same number for the simple reason that one part of our auditors is going to other institutions so, after other jobs. We are, in a year, gone somewhere 15 auditors. So every year we try to retake 7 to 10 trainees, and right now we have about 80 auditors who have learned work and work as auditors. It's the only way we can do it, but one auditor needs to be trained by three years, so here, we're still trying to do it the way we can. In order to carry out our work, a unique annual work programme is adopted to enable effective organisation and successful audit, as well as a more complete use of working time and professional capacity of state auditors. In the preparation of the annual work programme, the Office has applied the following criteria for the 2005 selection of audit entities. We have already established the criteria aside from those which are legally binding. The legal obligation of the audit, an unfavourable opinion on the financial statements and the business of the previous audit, the material significance of the audited entity, the number of applications submitted, the applications for the conduct of the audit per entity and the data collected from other institutions and public media. According to the provisions of the State Audit Act, the State Audit Office is required to carry out an annual audit of the state budget, funds, i.e. the state-level office and the budget of local units. We audit other subjects according to the possibilities, or according to our work programme. Notwithstanding the type of audit entity, the objectives of the audit were to verify the truthfulness and credibility of the financial reports, to verify the achievement of income and income, to carry out expenditure, and to purposely spend the funds. Check financial and other transactions in terms of more efficient spending of funds, verify the application of laws and other regulations relating to organisation and financial accounting operations. The audit procedures shall cover the entire business of the audited entity in order to obtain a full picture of the business. The audit procedures shall cover all financial reports and operations of the entities to determine whether the financial statements are true, objectively financial position, the results of the financial activity and whether the operations have been carried out in accordance with the regulations. The audit shall cover the following areas: the work cycle and the internal structure of the entities with a focus on the organisation and performance of internal audit surveillance activities, accounting operations, income and expenditure, with particular attention to the planning and spending process. The audit has checked the efficiency and economy of public spending. Special attention shall be paid to the procurement and application of public procurement rules, given that this is a matter of significant means to be spent. The report on the work of the Office for 2005 on 137 pages contains a description of the basic features of the budgetary system in the Republic of Croatia, an overview of the annual work programme of the State Audit Office with the number of planned audits and implementation of the work programme with the number of audits carried out. The report gives a summary of the findings and recommendations of the audit of the state budget and its users with a review of the opinions given, a summary of the findings and recommendations of local units with a review of the opinions given and a summary of the findings and recommendations of the review of health institutions with a review of the opinions given. Summary of findings and recommendations on the revision of higher schools with reviews and opinions given, as well as the summary of findings and recommendations of the revision of the trading company of the Croatian Forests d.o.o. which we've audited. In addition to the information relating to the implementation of the audit, the report shall contain information on the financial operations of the Office, internal audit, international activities and the development strategy of our Office. The audit period covered 899 entities, at national and local levels, of which the audit of financial reports and operations covered 541 entities, and the audit of budgets and financial reports was carried out in 358 local units. The audit of financial reports and operations in a total of 541 entities covers the state budget and 38 budget users, 3 extra-profit users, 2 non-profit organisations, 1 project, 212 local units, 64 health institutions, 81 higher school, 62 companies owned by the state or local units, 37 centres for social care, 22 fire departments or units, and 18 other entities, theatres, student homes, libraries and others. Public funds totalling 118.2 billion kuna were audited, accounting for 57.1% of GDP in 2004. Of which, 115 billion kuna relates to budget funds. As part of the budget, the revenues of the state budget amount to HRK 99.2 billion or 85.7%, the revenues of the City of Zagreb are 5.1 billion or 4.4 billion, while the revenues of all other local units amount to $11.5 billion or 9.9%. In addition to the budget procedures, other public funds amounting to €2.4 billion are included, related to the revenues of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, Croatian Waters, the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks, and the Croatian Olympic Committee and the Trust Fund for the Compensation of Distracted Assets. In addition to tax revenues, the most significant revenue from the state budget is contributions to pension and health insurance and employment. In 2004, a contribution to health insurance amounted to € 13.2 billion, a contribution to pension insurance of €14.9 billion, and to the employment of €965 million. The expenditure of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance amounted to 15 billion kuna, and the insufficient funds of 1.8 billion kuna are compensated from other budget revenues. The expenditure of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute amounted to €23.2 billion, so that the dissatisfaction of €8.3 billion was compensated from other budget revenues. For pension payments 22.6 billion kuna and 52% of the funds collected by contributions were allocated. The employment contribution has been made in the amount of $965 million, and the Employment Service has spent $1.1 billion, and insufficient funds have been compensated from their own resources because the Institute has been lending loans, and this is being paid back in another way. The revenues of the City of Zagreb and other local units were achieved by 1.5 billion kuna more than in the previous year. The audits carried out shall be drawn up a report with findings and recommendations and an opinion on the business and financial reports of the audited entity. All reports were submitted to the statutory representatives of the audited entities, the councils and local units so that certain actions could be taken to remove the irregularities observed. In addition to the report submitted, the statutory representative of the audited entity shall be required to provide written evidence within 60 days of the actions carried out to remove identified irregularities. In this way, the office shall monitor the execution of the tasks and recommendations given before the start of the next audit. The State Audit Act lays down the powers of offices that are in line with international standards, guidelines of the European Union and with the good practice of other European countries. In doing so, it should be stressed once again that the office does not have the power to take any criminal sanctions, as other state institutions do. By carrying out the audit in the previous reporting period, the office has given audit entities a total of 2 thousand 181 orders and recommendations, orders are given where the law was not respected and recommendations are recommended that in some ways the office should give its opinion on how something should be done. According to the results within 60 days of the date of submission of the audit report, a thousand 183 warrants and recommendations or 54.2% of the total number have been carried out, other orders and recommendations will be determined, now whether we have already started the revision in 2005 and before the start of the audit is first determined what was done on orders from the previous year. In addition to objectively identifying the facts about the business of the subjects and giving orders and recommendations to improve the business of the office it is to inform the Croatian Parliament and the public about how to make available the public funds we are doing right now. Data collected during the audit are official secret until the report is delivered to the Croatian Assembly, but at local level representative bodies when they become public. After the debate in this House, full reports are available to the public via the State Audit Office website. The report on the audits carried out by this high House has a thousand and 51 pages, so we have now expanded our work report to give a complete one, because by the same methodology we have done since we have no more revisions of conversion and privatisation, we have done a little more audits, so that we do not give too extensive material, we have given common data in our work report to see in some way the spending of public funds in that year. Summary... consist of three basic parts, of opinions, general data, findings and recommendations, as always. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In accordance with the audit standards and in accordance with normal practice, the institutions of the state audit shall, on the basis of the facts established, express an opinion on the financial statements and business of the audited entity. Three types of opinions differ, without prejudice to any significant irregularities, provided that irregularities are identified which are not relevant for the understanding of financial reports, i.e. which have no significant impact on the operations of the audit entities, are negatively expressed when significant irregularities are identified and are retained when there is insufficient data, i.e. it is not available to the particular documentation that any opinion can be given. During this reporting period, 117 unconditional opinions or 21.6% were issued, expressed unconditionally, by 13 or 2.4% unfavourable, for 2 entities abstentioned or 0.4% while for 409 subjects or 75.6% were given conditional opinion. Part of the report describing the general data refers to the basic financial indicators of the audited entity, and in the findings and recommendations are listed in a shortened form as significant irregularities in their business and provide the findings and recommendations of our office. After these indicative data in the office, on the number and type of audits and the number of opinions given and the amount of total audited funds, allow me to present the basic data from the audit findings carried out during this reporting period. In fact, although the number of irregularities is decreasing year by year, certain irregularities are still being repeated. They may be divided into three groups and these irregularities in the accounting system, irregularities in planning and spending of funds and irregularities in public procurement procedures. The new accounting system for budgetary users has been in place for 3 years, thus reducing the number of irregularities related to accounting operations. However, the most frequent irregularities in accounting business continue to apply to the list of assets, liabilities and claims. The lists are not complete, are not consistent with the accounting and real conditions. These are the most common irregularities that occur. It is wrong to record individual incomes and expenditures. Registration of expenditure at the time of payment instead of at the time of the commitment. This new accounting system has been established, however, not everyone adheres to it. It is wrong to show information in financial reports. Certain formal errors conducted by auxiliary records, recording on the wrong context or similar discussions with audit entities and during the course of the audit have been corrected as a rule. Irregularities in the part of income and income, as well as expenditure and expenditure most often relate to unrealistic planning and execution of revenue and are made up of various redistributions within the budget. The Office also warned further about insufficient control of the transferred or transferred funds to budgetary and other users. This is what our Budget Law said that all transferred funds the Heads of the Body are obliged to control how they are spent or to look for reports in what they have been spent in, but it is likely that, for the sake of insufficient internal control, internal audit is established, there is not enough attention being paid. The third group of irregularities concerns the implementation of public procurement procedures. Special attention shall be paid to the audit of the implementation of these procedures as significant funds are spent on these purposes. This makes this area very important and has a direct impact on the efficiency of the use of budgets. We in our revised resources have determined somewhere over 15 billion kuna that it has been spent in public procurement. We also found that a certain procedure was carried out in public procurement procedures, but in certain cases no procedures have been fully implemented and in very few cases have not been implemented at all. The most frequent irregularities are seen in the appointment of procurement committees, the implementation of the public tendering process or the collection of offers, the identification of the offeror's ability, the setting of criteria for selecting the most favourable offer, the selection of bidders and the completion of the contract. In particular, it is necessary to monitor the exercise of contracted rights and obligations until the end of the procurement process because very often this is not sufficiently monitored. At local levels for a smaller number of units, debt irregularities have been identified because no borrowing consent has been obtained. Delegation committed above the prescribed amount law and other budgetary expenditures were settled from credit funds. It should be pointed out that without the borrowing of a unit, they would not be able to meet their obligations. We report all of these cases to the Ministry of Finance because they keep records and care about these units that they can function normally. The number of irregularities and their frequency of occurrences in business and financial reports of audited entities points to the need to establish a strong internal audit, to establish an internal control system. Therefore, the office also warned in its reports about this fact. The adoption of the Budget Law in mid-2003 amended the role of budgetary supervision and implemented by the Ministry of Finance in legal and physical persons using budgetary resources. Instead of budgetary surveillance, users are obliged to establish an internal audit which is ongoing, however, has not yet been revived everywhere. The State Treasury, which is the only one in its segment, also has a supervisory role to function in early 2001 and continues to develop. Certain records, such as public debt, assets, obligations and claims, have not yet been fully established. This project should therefore be fully completed in all its parts as planned and further developed and perfected according to certain standards. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, esteemed MPs! In this brief presentation, I briefly cited something about the office, about our business, about the activities of the past period. However, it is also common to present the office's programming tasks for next year. During 2003, a strategic plan was adopted to develop an office that represents a long-term document of plan and systematic development. The plan is in line with the standards of the European Union and adopted by its representatives. This document sets out the tasks and tasks of the following reporting period: to regularly carry out audits of financial reports and transactions in accordance with the provisions of the Law on State Audit and International Standards, to focus specific activities on audits of the efficiency of spending public funds, and to continue to carry out continued education of state auditors at expert seminars in order to be as ready and professional as possible for the implementation of the most complex jobs and tasks, to cooperate with other authorities, professional and scientific institutions in carrying out the tasks set up and especially in case of taking over new jobs. This must always take into account the independence and independence of the audit profession. Further, develop and establish cooperation with a number of top audit institutions within the organisation... as well as cooperation with countries with related audit systems. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Continue the ongoing process of modernising the information system and linking it to other public sector information systems at national and local levels. In the context of the process of integration of the Republic of Croatia into European integration and, above all, to adapt to the way in which the international obligation is to work and to seek to participate in joint projects using the knowledge of recognised European and world experts. The independence and public work of the office must continue to be present in business. By posting on the website of our reports, ensure that these reports are sufficient for everyone. Finally, I would point out that since 2004, the State Audit Office has been involved in the CARDS programme through a screening project funded by the European Commission of 2m euros. The project is carried out in cooperation with the UK Audit and its implementation from 30 months to mid-2007 our auditors will all pass the financial audit, the training of the financial audit, one large part of the auditors will pass efficiency audit training and one number of sea auditors and pass the review of the new programme's information system which we... 240 laptops, 24 servers needed with hardware and software, networking, and 50 software tools licenses used in the revision process have been purchased. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are now at one level of information that every auditor has a laptop. I have to say that now it's a much easier job, I believe and hastened, and that maybe in the future we'll do even more work than we've done so far because so far there's one computer on three auditors and so on. So thanks to the European Union and this one, we are fully informed. Thank you for your attention. I'm here to give... to specific things if there are questions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55529	Thank you very much. Committees on Finance and the State Budget, on Labour and Social Policy, on Internal Policy and National Security, President-in-Office of the Committee, Honored Representative Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55530	Mr President-in-Office of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security at its 58th session on 26 January discussed the report on the implementation and audits for 2004 and beyond, and the discussion carried out by the Committee unanimously concluded that it proposes to the Croatian Parliament to adopt a report on the implementation of the 2004 audit of operations, a special part concerning the MORH, MUP and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55531	Thank you. The Justice Committee. No more... for the rapporteurs of the Committee. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Do other representatives of other reports want to take the floor for now? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The HDZ representative club, the respected representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55532	Dear Mr. President, the honored representatives of the State Audit Office and the Government, colleagues and colleagues. As Mrs. Chief State Auditor said, this is the 11th report, and when we remember the 11 years we've come along with our audit, then we really have to be satisfied because they're 11 years ago now they'd make us blush. We studied together with our auditors, and we are deeply convinced that exactly our state audit has become one of the main pillars of legal management of state funds. Of course, 11 years ago, it was neither possible nor regulated by law by one rational and legal money management. Today we have all the legal frameworks. And today's reports as well as what's ahead of us of course must look quite different. As you have heard from the opening statements, the opinion is unconditionally expressed when reports are in all relevant respects in accordance with the laws and when business is in compliance with the regulations. What does this report look like for 2005? Of the 541 subjects, therefore, such a completely positive opinion had 117 subjects, so one third, and that is something that we can certainly be satisfied with, but that is obviously not the ultimate goal, but also the demand for further improvements. Probable were 409 and unfavourable 13 opinions. But the analysis we're going to give here in these short ten minutes can only cover some aspects of this very thick dossier, extensive. So I'm going to 20? [[I'm sorry, it's 20 minutes for clubs.]] Thank you. [[Intruder: Yes.]] Then I can do a little more. So in this analysis, we could cover three basic aspects. These are: accounting business, cost planning and dedicated spending and what I will give a special emphasis on. It's a public procurement. Because public procurement is definitely in our public interest when it comes to spending public money. And this public procurement, which annually covers around 15 billion kunas, is often unfortunately not just an object of objective criticism but is often as I will show later on with data and the subject of politicization. That's what's not good. About 20% of these 15 billion roughly were not fully in line with the Public Procurement Act. So when it comes to getting more than 200 thousand kuna. Or it was not in accordance with a regulation that spoke of the purchase of material of less than 200 thousand. So about one fifth was out of line with the law. Or approximately roughly 3 billion kuna. Of course, there have also been harsh deviations that I will also talk about. First of all, a few words about the ministries. Of course, we are most interested in how they treat the state money of the ministry because they are the top of the state administration and, of course, they are aimed at all eyes and local administrations and other users of the State budget, institutions and so on, but also at our public. We can say that in this report for 2004, I will talk about the institutions for 2002 and 2003 later, there was still insufficient planning of income and expenditure in our ministries. And obviously the most difficult pain is to plan revenue and expenditure properly. Often in our audit, we find very significant deviations from the plan. But these deviations I would say are not important, and so our auditors conclude did not have an important impact on business itself so that we can say that there have been some deviations in the Ministry of Culture, the sea, agriculture and so on, but these are the amounts that should not be debated now because we also have much more significant deviations. Of some specific remarks in the ministries, we have objections to shipbuilding subsidies which were partly paid as advances, not after the completion of the ship, which, of course, was explained by the Ministry of Resort that the completion of the ship would therefore be absolutely impossible without those 10% of the funds given at the time of the construction of the ship itself. There have also been objections to the fostering of the Ministry of Agriculture. The incentives, where we should congratulate the minister, are paid more than expected. So instead of a billion and 771 million paid a billion 847 or 4.3% but it wasn't working, it wasn't a perpetum mobile, but in reason it's about paying off debts from past periods, and then it can be justified. Other major objections were not except in the Ministry of Science that the advance paid centre of Bicro 38 million kuna more than spent on the "understanding" programme, however, and here the Ministry responds that these funds from earlier periods are therefore passed on sins are still being dragged and so we can say that this is also going in line with those findings that can be justified. When it comes to the public procurement of our ministries, then we must also express our satisfaction. I'm not talking about the Moreh and the M.O.P. going as we know by special criteria. So we can say that the ministries themselves passed the public procurement exam because there were no major irregularities. In total, I calculated that some 9 million and 900 thousand kuna purchases were not in line with the law to a lesser or larger extent, to a lesser or larger extent. Three ministries acted perfectly in accordance with the law. This is the Ministry of European Integration in the mandate of Mr. Zuzula, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was called, the Ministry of the Family and I am particularly proud of the Ministry of Health and Social Care in the 2004 term when I led it. I point out this only because there are no objections during that period, so all the purchases were in line with the Public Procurement Act, and let's just remember the politicization of public procurement in that portfolio, remember the "Simatac" affair and some other affairs. Now we have here black on white that it was a simple political and often media mobing. That's not good, because it doesn't stimulate the state administration to work properly. Therefore, these findings are welcome to place things in place and to detect those who have invented, politicized and turned away from those main targets that are improperly operating on secondary targets that operate in accordance with the law. In the ministries, the most frequent errors were in the purchase of goods of small value to which the regulation had already been applied, and I also think that the ministries have shown significant progress. Speaking of the largest financial resources, I have to mention here the Croatian Health Insurance Office. Namely, the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance is the second largest beneficiary of the budget behind the pension and, of course, it has its eyes pointed at it because unlike the pension he also has a large purchase sense of the purchase of medicines, orthopaedic aids. And we have been coming here for several years for a row of one and the same remark, which reads: "For the purchase of medicines worth 2 billion 772 million kunas, and orthopedic aids worth 466 million kunas...", so it is a sum of more than 3 billion kunas, "...not implemented the procedures laid down by the Public Procurement Act.". Of course, a man would have to freeze to death when he heard that someone for 3 billion kuna had obtained funds without respecting the Public Procurement Act. However, the medal has its other side. Namely, the same assessment extends, I reviewed the 2003 report, 2002 and earlier, always the same observation and it is obviously a big misunderstanding. Namely, medicines are supplied under the Health Protection Act on the basis of which a Regulation on the supply of medicinal products is adopted. And classic public procurement for medicines, as we first spent in 1994, gave disastrous results, so we gave up on it, as all countries of Europe gave up. Namely, a small number of manufacturers and suppliers compete in a public tender and then hit prices that are 30, 40% higher than the previous ones. That's why we've got the rule book and the supply is going through it, so there's a little misunderstanding here with the State Audit. According to this Regulation, the price is determined on the basis of the average price of the product in 3 selected countries and can then be negotiated below, but not above. So there's one misunderstanding that definitely needs to be clarified once and for all. Perhaps the solution would be in the formal satisfaction of the law, which is that before each supply of medicinal products formally requires the Government to agree to avoidance, or to an exception to the Public Procurement Act. So there's that one, that explanation. Otherwise, for the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance it is also a criticism that there are no basic and supplementary health insurance relations. That's also impossible, because when we have voluntary supplementary insurance in the mandatory, then we really don't know what it's paid for, it's going to get so tangled up that we're going to make this unique in Europe, if we keep keeping it, we're going to have to continue to subject it to criticism. And a major criticism, or observation, is that expenditure on medicines and specialist reviews is up to 38% higher than the plan. It's a question of all the questions. Can health care be spent through plans or not? We spend over the plan, but we rebel against it. It's the least good solution. And in all items of health expenditure should preplan expenditure and strictly stick to them, because otherwise it happens... which we just witnessed, which is that the planned expenditures go beyond here to 38% more than the plan. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Debts pile up, suppliers can't pay for it, supplies break up and the system fires. Or in the budget each year to capture 10 percent more than the previous one, and of course it cannot withstand either the budget or the economy. So I think these remarks on HZZO work are typical for both previous periods and until these things are clear and will be repeated, of course, in the next audits and the next years. Since secrecy has been removed from the revision of the MORH and the MUP, we can also say about it and we need to say a few words. In fact, 257 million kunas were detected in the Ministry of Defence that were excluded from public procurement. Therefore, procurement is based on the law because it is understood that this procurement is exempted by the government's decision, but the revision raises a legitimate question as to whether it is really necessary. Is it necessary to have a full purchase, almost total exemption from the Public Procurement Act? I don't think it is, and the club thinks it isn't, and that we should consider whether or not it is. 116 million expenditure on living foods should be excluded from public procurement. Is that a military secret? Obviously not. Today, the satellite can record what we had for lunch, not just how many potatoes we bought for our army. The same goes for 37 million 800 thousand for clothing, 22 million 167 thousand for administrative office materials, etc. So there should probably be an agreement to exempt from the Law from public procurement because it is in the interest of defence, and it should go under public procurement and that is something that will also be repeated year after year if the rules of the game are not laid down. A few words about local administration units. It is interesting that internal surveillance is not set up in most local administration units, although the Internal Audit Regulation on budgetary users was adopted in early 2004. And those units where the surveillance was set up, they didn't do it. So we can practically say that it's not functional in the units of local administration internal surveillance. However, as regards public procurement procedures, most units did not fully adhere to legal obligations, but it is within the limits that are acceptable. In fact, expenditures in local administration units totalled €2004 billion and €600 million, and contrary to the law, I summed up € 130 million. So 8% did not fully or even adhere to the Public Procurement Act, which in general is a good result. In the counties, the observation is that decentralised funds are sometimes not used for what they are intended for, which is an investment but for the settlement of current budget expenditures. Varazdin County as the biggest example with five million kunas spent to settle current expenditure instead of for investment from decentralised funds. Otherwise, this county also bounces by the fact that as many as 10 million kunas have shown off the off-balance sheet that they are not lucky and the case of other counties. Overall, public procurement in the county is also much better than a few years ago. Thus, it is contrary to the law or incompletely respecting the Public Procurement Act in Bjelovarska-Biogorje one million kuna, Primorje-Granje 3 million kuna, is practically the biggest result, nowhere moves 2 to 3 million kunas, which should certainly be fixed, but it is acceptable in relation to the chapter that follows, followed by the most dramatic chapter of this report, it is the business of a health institution. We have here a medical report for 2002 and 2003. It is a chapter that actually causes anger, because when compared to money management in the state administration, local administration and in a whole series of other users of the state budget, then we see a huge difference and a deviation unfortunately to the damage of health institutions. Namely, the value of purchases in health institutions that do not comply with the law or regulation, depending on the size of the purchase, the purchase price, was established in 55 out of 64 institutions, so either partially or completely contrary to the law, and it is interesting that in the purchase of medicines and medical materials, only one institution in the observation for two years acted according to the law, so of 64 institutions only obtained one medical material, consumable medical material and medicinal products completely under the Public Procurement Act. And now here's the information that really freezes the blood in the veins, quotes page 88 of the report. The total value of the goods obtained against the law or public procurement regulation in 2002 in health institutions was billions and 508 million kuna. Whoever did not read, you heard well, a billion and 508 million kuna purchases without full respect for the Public Procurement Act. In 2003, the situation was slightly better, a billion and 113 million kuna. So it's a report from our State Audit Office that requires a little analysis. Since health institutions are definitely the weakest in the field of public procurement, they are definitely the least adhered to by the law and regulation, and there is a very large supply of medicines, medical materials, cleaning products, food, disinfectants etc. Then you really should do something about it. In this way supply is lost huge money that does not end with the purpose of diagnosing and treating patients’ diseases, but definitely ends somewhere in someone. To whom, I don't know, we'll probably hear from those to whom the material was passed. So I have to say, for example. Mercur Hospital, 78 million kunas, otherwise obtained, against the law. "Sisters of Mercy" 97 million, KB Split 50, KB Osijek 47. By the way, these are the directors we replaced at the beginning of that term, so we were called to conduct ourselves auditically towards the previous government. No, I don't. We traded precisely because of what's now come out in the light of day. And if someone says you don't need to change then I'll tell them that for that billion and a half kuna, we could certainly have saved 10%. We could've done a lot more, because, for example, The state audit found that at the Mercur Clinical Hospital, the free contract price reached was between 240 and 350% higher than the prices in other beneficiaries of the budget. For example, toilet paper cost 17 instead of 7 kuna, photocopier 70 instead of 20 kuna, etc. This difference at country level is, if it's only 10% cheaper public procurement than individual and agreed procurement, then the loss is 150 million kuna. What does 150 million kuna mean for the Croatian health system? To translate that into human lives, for 150 million kunas we could do a screening mammography that year and save a thousand lives. And my question is whether such administrations are a place in their offices or whether we should take criminal measures for which I am not or educational measures for which I am at state level or whether such directors can't wait for the next election to sit back on the same chairs and re-destruct a thousand lives through violation of the Public Procurement Act. So that's it. I'm not in favour of punishment, nor of politicizing the results of the state administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55533	Thank you. We have three corrections to an incorrect quote. Dear representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55534	Speaking of identified irregularities in funding under the development programme within the Wincrom technology centre, hebrang said that this could not be considered a major irregularity and that according to the report taken on these activities to remove irregularities from the 2003 revision, that the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports had taken all the necessary steps to resolve all this, that this was settled and that these debts were the past government. It's simply incorrect. Since the 2004 revision also identified the same irregularity.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55535	Correction of the incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55536	Thank you. Mr Hebrang, when he spoke about the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, said it was a misunderstanding and that this is why the situation in public procurement was presented. I'm just curious about one thing. Mrs. Krasic, are you acting by law or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55537	I don't see what you're up to. ... We can't paralyze, but don't abuse the plate to correct the incorrect allegations to pollemize with anyone. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55538	So I'm correcting the inaccuracies of fellow Hebrang, who spoke of the former director of Mercur Hospital, who gave out who knows which times the completely untrue facts about the work of the former director. Since the new director you appointed Mr. Hebrang, there is already twice the loss in the same hospital as the former director of Martinac every year. I'd like to know if you're going to relieve this Mr. Director.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55539	You haven't corrected the incorrect allegations either, and from now on there are warnings. It is next, on behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55540	Dear Mr. Vice President, the esteemed representatives of the State Audit, the State's Attorney's Office, the Government, the distinguished gentlemen's representatives. This revision covers 541 entities. 117 subjects, as we've heard, have received an evaluation unconditionally which will say that everything is fine. The 409 got the rating conditionally, so they got some conditions. 13% unfavourable and 2 abstentions. But that's less important now. It is clear that in such a large system as the state, 559 units of local self-government with the City of Zagreb, the county always has an error. So there will be, at least every year we make more progress in every way. What they will say is that the actions of the state authorities are becoming more orderly and certainly more responsible. However, according to the IDS Club, the central part of this report is this on page 31 and let me quote it nicely, read it. So, I quote: "In cases where the appropriations are made, that is, when expenditure or expenditure is carried out above or below the planned amounts, a redistribution of the appropriations is possible. During 2004, revenues of 3 billion 263 million 659 thousand 376 kuna or 3.2% of total planned funds were redistributed on the basis of 33 redistribution decisions. The redistribution of budgets during the year changes the planned revenues and expenditures to a number of items, often for small amounts." It is then stated: "The office has voiced its opinion that materially less significant expenditure should be planned and published by account groups without more detailed consideration by purpose, which would reduce the need for redistribution and contribute to a easier and better review of budget implementation. Materially significant expenditure, i.e. the cost of paying off loans, should be further worked out for purposes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The law," and when I read this paragraph, I will stop because I see that no one is interested in it, means "The budget law is prescribed that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is re-scheduling the Croatian Parliament within the time limit set by law. The Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004 did not prescribe deadlines in which the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to report to the Croatian Assembly on redistributions. Although the legal provisions do not have or are not prescribed deadlines, the Office expressed its opinion that the Government of the Republic of Croatia should have notified the Croatian Parliament of all redistributions during the year." It is clear that this particular detail, gentlemen, should be prescribed as soon as possible. For local self-government, clearly, we've copied something like that. We didn't prescribe for the state. For local self-government, we have prescribed that it must redistribute, let's say, for 30 thousand kunas, but for the state we didn't prescribe that redistribution must tell this House when it comes to 3 billion kunas or more. So beyond this Parliament, the state has redistributed 3 billion 263 million kuna. That's 3.2% of the total planned funds, and that looks like nothing at first sight. What is it, some MPs will say, as in the case of Cacic-Tomcic, 2.3% or 0.045%. But like those 0.045% 9 or 12 million kuna, and these 2.3% 225 million kuna, these 3.2% is 3 billion 263 million kuna. And 3 billion 263 million kunas will all agree that it's huge money. This is, to be precise, as much money as all Croatian clinical hospitals or those 3.3 billion kuna in 2003 are almost 4 times more than they are in the county without the City of Zagreb. Or that 3.3 billion kuna is 1 and a half times more money than all the budgets of all Croatian counties without the City of Zagreb. 20 Croatian counties achieved 2 billion 418 million kuna budgets in 2004. Here, these are equivalents, let's say, that 3.3 billion kuna or that 3.3 billion kuna is two times more than it is in 2004. Croatia has come from customs. And we all know that we're importing everything and everything, that our imports amount to almost $16 billion, exports of only $8.9 billion. Or that 3.3 billion kuna is 3 times more than the state's income from real estate or sales tax, for example, state-owned companies. We've been selling state-owned companies a year, but last year it wasn't the case, we're making revenue from cca billion kuna. Or that 3.3 billion kuna is slightly less than the state's income, for example, from profit tax, etc. So why am I saying that? Because these redistributions without the Parliament are in some way, under quotes, and an insult to the Parliament. We keep our mouths shut. Governments are doing things their way. What do we allow? This strengthens the executive power, and we degrade the role of this Parliament in which, unfortunately, no one in the public holds anything, but if we neglect, it means, our role, which is to keep the law that we ourselves prescribe, and if we encourage reinforcements, let's say, these executive authorities and ignore representative, i.e., the role of Parliament itself, we are involved in the weakness of Parliament, and that is certainly not good, nor can it be the role of this House. It certainly is not good for us who may one day be chosen, directly become, under quotes, institutions, but certainly something similar is not good or higher than the citizens themselves. This House on the other hand cannot even turn into one voting machine, no matter who is in power and must begin to rule. So, to turn into one body above which, some once said, there will be no one but God, or Croatian citizen. When I say "God," then I think clearly of the Constitution, and we, while every boss is, and we'll probably agree in any public utility, is in a better position than the MPs, about the editors in the media, the assistant ministers that I'm not even talking about, this House is certainly not going to have that place in society that you should normally have. That's what I'm saying because today there are also representatives of the State's Attorney's Office and representatives of the State's audit. So much for the Constitution and the position of the Parliament against the government. However, why these 3.3 billion kunas still matter, and I said this is more than they are coming in a year from all Croatian county communities or more than all general hospitals are coming in. These 3.3 billion kunas are important because this practice generates indifference. On one side is neglected to pay in certain obligations, during today or yesterday I read somewhere that only witches, lawyers, etc., means courts owe 40 million kuna with material costs at this time, if so possible 100 or 150 million kuna. Unpaid obligations in Croatia at this time exceed 11 billion kuna, meaning that countries on one side and others mean legal and private persons, but it is undeniable that the state has started again, and this report shows in some way also to generate indifference, especially in the area of health care where the debt of public clinics, or general hospitals from that pulse, has further exceeded 3.3 billion kuna and I don't see at this time how these general hospitals that have budgets bigger than they have in the county, and the counties are their owners or under quotes "founders" can be financially consolidated. I just don't see it, and I can't figure it out by following the opportunities right in the County of Istria I don't see how it means with the budget of the County of Istria whose budget is 209 million kuna, which is the largest per capital in the Republic of Croatia, let the City of Zagreb, I'm talking about other counties, can take care of a general hospital that for the annual needs of these tables we see 200, 220 etc. A million kunas. With the knowledge of these illegal redistributions of the 3.3 billion kuna, which I think leads to indifference, two other reports are extremely important. These are the occasions in the health care for which Mr Hebrang said that this report when health care is due is simply a story, or it causes a dam and another report, as shown by the growth of the Croatian economy, we must admit, if the economy is growing, etc. I guess in some way and standard, this report on the other hand is also the most fierce critic of one absurd situation, rather centralised, than two sentences before that. I don't think it's for example. unlawfully, if the State subsidises the debt under the power of judgment, e.g. Because of unfounded police officers for which funds are not or can be secured in the state budget because you can't presuppose what judgments will be, as I also don't consider illegal in these 3.2 billion kunas, let's say, to encourage shipbuilding because similar ways have always been done, so all governments have done it, but rather without timely, but rather, as I would say without time in order to say delivery of these guarantees, etc. Shipbuilding that owes nearly 6 billion kuna anyway or has 6 billion kunas of outstanding liabilities if they do not get these incentives simply broke down. But some things on the other hand can be planned, e.g. Air maintenance, etc. It is possible to plan clearly how much funds we need to be able to service loans, etc. I said it means opportunities are stabilizing slowly, but surely, even though we haven't reached a real gross social product in the '90s. or that we have not reached industrial production in the '90s, and I'm afraid we won't reach that by the end of this decade it's clear that we can't be as satisfied as the fact that all countries have been transitioning in some way, let Bulgaria, Romania, mean those who entered the European Union have been well past. What else do I want to say? When I talk about raising this standard and consolidation of opportunities in the country, and also economic strengthening the country's budget in the Republic of Croatia in '96. It is €34 billion, 2004 is €99 billion, 2006 with these roads, waters, or highways of €105.9 billion. The second thing is that everything in the meantime was in '96. It collected, which is hard to live on, but the opportunities in these figures still move even though this redistribution of 99 billion to the state or 85.7% to the state, 5 billion to the City of Zagreb, or 4.4%, and 11.5 billion to all others, means to all counties, to all municipalities and cities, which is 9.9% simply an unsustainable situation because that 11.5 billion kuna shares 568 units of local self-government. So 20 counties plus 100 and so many cities plus 400 municipalities. The planned size at the state level if we exclude the excise duties to which the current minister of the former has always called relatively well planned, but everyone I think is in this when we read these figures surprised the real estate trade because there is a revenue from the sales tax of 150 million kuna, that is, that is, the 5% in the sale of land, apartment, etc. which will say that this market has actually reached 40 to 50 billion kuna by calculating these black figures. Why am I saying that? Because I can't believe that in Istria those companies that deal with, say, real estate sales in 2004, they've shown a profit of nearly 1 billion kuna, 948 million kuna, it's something that a man doesn't believe, and whoever sells on the other hand, units of local self-government don't, the state doesn't, sell small people. Why? That's their problem, selling theirs, who? Clearly whoever gives more to things so that they can save their own lives. Unfortunately, local self-government units have become expensive. Of the 11 billion kuna plus 5 billion kunas of the City of Zagreb, or 16 billion kunas or 4 billion kunas have no expenditure on non-financial assets, means for investments. Not four billion out of those 16 billion. That's a huge problem. Almost 12 billion goes for business expenses. Non-financial assets i.e. Investments aren't even $4 billion. So it's only every fourth kuna that goes for the investment. With the state of that budget that I mentioned non-financial assets is a billion 663 million kuna. It's non-financial property. Eighty-three billion kuna goes for business expenses. Be careful, so while subsidies, aids, compensations to citizens in local self-government and the city of Zagreb amount to a billion 614 million kuna in the country amount to 53.4 billion kuna. That's amazing, but that's actually what it is. So our budgets of municipalities, cities, states are exclusively in the post of payout, debt payments, social welfare, aid resolution, subsidies, and then we wonder why this country has no development. It's perhaps the most shocking piece of information in this report when we analyze it in detail. I said aid subsidies and compensation to the citizens of the $53.4 billion. The state means non-financial assets or non-financial assets expressed those billions of kuna 663 million. There are no Croatian roads, there are no Croatian waters, there are no Croatian highways, which will say that it is another 7-8 billion kuna for the brother. What else is there to say? It would not be a problem now if the 116 billion kuna meant general state, state, local self-government, county, city of Zagreb, etc. is not 55% of the 2004 gross social product. So, if, once again, I'm going to subtract the roads and those Croatian waters, the highway de facto doesn't trigger development and on the other hand it channels for these needs huge resources, and that should somehow be crucial. The state is there as often as local self-government, often "for itself". It's not like that, but let's just say. Now, what are we gonna do? I hope someone realizes they have to decentralisation this country. It would help the state, even though maybe someone who got into it would break their teeth, but this situation right now is just not good. Perhaps this Law on the Change of Taxes on State Profits will change something local self-government. This situation is not perspective and what is then to say is that of the 569 units of local self-government, 315 has budgets of up to 5 million kuna. I guess we'll talk about it once, as we finally opened the issue of health institutions that Croatia has fourteen, meaning clinical institutions, 19 general hospitals, 25 special hospitals. But I'm afraid at this point, the main indifference generator in Croatia is becoming a health care system that owes more than 3.3 billion kuna. I don't know why, for example, the pulsar hospital, the varazdin hospital, the Sibenik hospital, in 2003 made significantly less money than in 2002, the pulse of as much as 33 million kuna, the Varazdin 25, the Sibenik 28th. Here we are given data for 2003, not what would be current in 2005, but I'm sure the situation in 2005 when health care is incomparably worse than it was in 2003. One word situation is not good, and if we need anything, it's a successful rehabilitated health care at the moment. Obviously, we don't do much here, and it's likely to break the spear between the opposition and the authorities in the future, but certainly between the public and the authorities. All in all, this report is commendable, some "magna Carta" of Croatian finances something without which we cannot clearly monitor the work of the state, it should be accepted, although I have the impression that auditors may be a little more prone to this authority than the former, perhaps because this government has raised them again in some part or paid them back. However, it is clear that this report should be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55541	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55542	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Cain, speaking of redistributing the budget, said the role of this Parliament was demoted which I do not think is true because it is all 3.2% of the total budget and I believe that it is contrary to the rational use of budgetary resources. It is also necessary to say when we talk about redistributions that the maximum amount of the increase in funding is by redistributing part of the pension item to the amount of HRK 217 million and I think that these are well-oriented funds and it is certainly better to pay for pensions than that the funds are not used in some item.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55543	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55544	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a fellow Caine very often mentions that all the countries that have entered Europe, so these last ten have crossed over, which is an absolutely incorrect allegation. Because if that were the case, our construction inspectors would not be hunting down workers from those countries who work in black with us. It's also an incorrect display and an incorrect quote about production from 99 because if everything that's left in the warehouses was not sold, and if it were to be seen who we were selling it to, I think that production would be self-inflicted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55545	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55546	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's another report of the State Audit. At first, two things fall into the eyes. First over the years, and actually ever since the State Audit was established, there has always been a sentence somewhere in the beginning: "The revision finds that some irregularities are repeated even though the number of irregularities is less than in the previously observed period." That sentence actually meant that Croatian governments work better every year. Progress has always been seen even though it has never been in the desired scope. This time, however, there are no sentences. I've been looking for her and I've been looking for her, but I haven't found her. Why? Is it possible that the auditor forgot to write it? No, not at all. The answer is simpler. There are more irregularities, so since more auditors couldn't even figure out that there were fewer because there were fewer. Simple. And secondly, there's no government opinion. When was the review report analysed for the last year of Racan's government's term of office, the Sanader government delivered its broad opinion in which she feared how this was done in the past term? And now nothing. There's no spell. So how is that possible? But that's not only possible, it's logical. Because if she had accidentally delivered her opinion and what the Government might have written in it, rather than expressing repentance and shame. Repentance because it works worse than the previous government and shame because it's on the previous one, it's seen from the audit findings, and it's clearly better than itself, it's constantly poured wood and stones, and it's not even up to its knees. But it is also expected of the people of Sanader's government to show two such valuable human traits as repentance and shame. It would be too demanding. This is the find of a state audit for the real year of Sanader's government's term of office. So it's an x-ray that penetrates deep into the tissue, and then it's a good opportunity to see how this government worked, but also to compare what some of its members were saying not long ago about how to work with what they're doing today. I will mainly talk here about the revision of the 2004 budget, and colleagues will analyse the work of individual ministries in individual discussions. The most responsible person when it comes to the Budget is the Minister of Finance. The same Shuker who always stood up hard for financial discipline. And what is financial discipline? First of all, it is the payment of obligations within the agreed or legal period and that is consistent compliance with the law. Well, now let's see how Minister Shuker behaves? How much does he respect the laws as a minister? Is he acting the way he always asked others to behave? Or otherwise, how consistent is Minister Schucker? The answer to this question will be found in the first pages of this State Audit report. Minister Shuker is also known for taking a strong stand for the transparency of state finances and for sending numerous and loud objections to the former government and the former minister in this regard. Well, why don't we see how Minister Schucker is leading state finances in a transparent manner? Well, he's leading them so transparently that the State Audit is beginning to determine. The consolidated general government financial report for 2004 has not been made. It's not made. How come it wasn't made when it had to be made? Although one such minister who requires the respect of the law and insists on transparency did not draw up a consolidated financial report from the general state. And here's what the same man was saying here in the Parliament in the rebalancing of his first budget in 2004: "The policy of this government is going towards fiscal stability and consolidation of the state. This government wants to run a transparent public finances policy." And now we see that the consolidated financial report isn't made at all, so we end up wondering logically and why isn't it? The answer to that question is not hard to find. If it was made, you'd see the deficit. And Minister Shuker doesn't want the deficit to be seen because he called the same deficit the former government incompetent, and now he's afraid that this government of his will appear to be more incompetent than the one whose incompetence was being passed over, and it will become clear what kind of minister is and what the government is talking about here. That this is about a clean attempt to cover up the real situation will also confirm the next revision. The main books and auxiliary books do not provide complete information on the total public debt, assets, obligations and claims of the state. No part of the liabilities is recorded in the accounts and accounts. Well, it's not. Well, of course not. Because if it were the way it was supposed to be, you'd see a huge unmistakable commitment from the state. You'd see who the state is and how much debt? In one word, you would see the total debt of the state. And the government won't see it. Because if you saw it, you'd see what kind of government they really are. And it would also be seen that the empty words of Minister Shucker are ringing today when he explained the rebalancing of the 2004 budget when he said, "I'm really glad that in this House it was finally discovered that the Emperor is naked, which is that so many of the former government has left so many unpaid bills." Well, here we are again in the Assembly of that same bereaved emperor. Here's evidence that doesn't pay the bills, here's a confirmation that all that moaning about inherited financial delinquents was just a fig leaf that was supposed to cover the imperial nudity of its own incompetence. All of this brings out the State Audit in light of the day when it says: "The main book and auxiliary books do not provide complete information on the total public debt, property, obligations and claims of the state. The State Audit Office has ordered in its business books to record the entire responsibility of the State." But let's leave now for a moment these allegations of state audits that more or less faithfully depict the image of Minister Shucker and complete the picture of his consistency and move on to a first-class scandal that can hardly avoid public attention. The audit finds that the Ministry of Finance has several foreign foreign exchange accounts and one abroad. No foreign foreign exchange funds are recorded in the accounts. What? My colleagues and colleagues, did you hear correctly? I'm going to repeat slowly that she's established the State Audit. No foreign foreign exchange funds are recorded in the accounts. The report doesn't say where that account was opened abroad? I hope he's not in Filach. But whether he was in Filach or not in Filach, you didn't seem to have strayed from the scandalous practice that reigned in this country at the time of Shusk. More than that, you've made this scandalous practice even more scandalous. The famous secret account in Filach was only a party, HDZ, and on it you hid the money our people abroad gave you for the purchase of weapons. And you've been using these new ones for who knows what they're not for guns for. But this account here that the State Audit is talking about is not a party but a state account. The account of the Ministry of Finance and the money of the country's taxpayers. And there's a secret account. No one can find out how much money there is? Who raises that money or why? We also know nothing about the reasons for the secrecy of this account. We can only guess about that, but when it is known how many councilmen have been bought lately in local self-government, then it is clear that the government needs some secret account, a traffic that must be hidden from the State Audit, from the Croatian Parliament, from the press, from the whole public. In justifying the rebalancing of the 2004 budget, the first year of government in this term, Minister Shuker said, "The reason for the rebalancing of this budget is solely because of the conduct of an irresponsible policy, the conduct of public finances. Billion and a half kuna that went to HH last year were not recorded in the Budget. If you had recorded the renovation neatly through the budget, perhaps this government wouldn't have had problems like this. And I'm not interested in secret means of funding. I'm interested in what this House brings, so let it be paid.". So, the minister then resented the former government for redistributing, financing HZ's billion-and-a-half kuna development, and for not informing the parliament. And the revision of his work today says: "In 2004, 33 decisions were made to redistribute the budget of 3 billion 263 million 659 thousand 376 kuna. The redistribution report has not been delivered to the Croatian Parliament.", says the review. Now let's move on to loans. Let us remind ourselves again what was said about the work of the former government and see how it is today. So two years ago, the minister resented the former government for failing to record loans as expenditure at the time the credit funds were withdrawn and said, by all laws, it was supposed to be the expenditure of the current year. So, I repeat, says the minister, credit is always the cost of that year when it retreats. You have withdrawn nearly a billion and 200 million loans in two years, and these funds are not recorded on the spending side. It was also not discussed by the Croatian Parliament. Today's audit on the work of this government says no part of the commitment is recorded in the business books and balance sheet. No commitments under previous years, as regards loans, commitments on loans and guarantees and on issued bonds, have been recorded. Still, failure to settle obligations towards Croatia's bishopial conference is not recorded in business books and balance sheets. In its indication of this statement of revision, the Ministry of Finance replies that these outstanding liabilities are not recorded because the principle of occurrence of events does not apply, and that these liabilities will be presented as expenditure in the year of settlement. I wonder if Minister Schuker is forgetful so he no longer remembers what he said two years ago, or if he is a double personality, when with full conviction he represents two but completely conflicting views. Because here, with infidelity, I read what the same Minister Schucker was saying by analyzing the style of the former government, and I want to share my infidelity with you, and I quote it: "The policy of the disguised deficit, the non-representation of expenditure in the moments when they were created, is a policy that this government will certainly not implement.", said Minister Shuker and stayed alive. He will not spend, he will not spend, and, behold, he spends it, and spends it in a good way. And the audit says he's doing it, and we all see that he's doing it, that's exactly the kind of policy that the former government has most strongly resented. And who's smart enough now to trust anything with Minister Shucker when he claims this or that tomorrow? But it seems to be a general course of this government, to achieve a complete discrepancy between what is said and what is done in which the Split Riva represents a perfectly solid memento. But let us let the Split River remember both its heroes and its con men and return to the revision that brings all new and new pearls. Here is one, the revision is not a single review or a record of companies owned by the Republic of Croatia, companies, banks and other financial institutions, as well as a record of the shares on which profits and dividends are made. In the central government budget balance sheet and in the accounts there are no data on shares and shares in the main companies of which the state is the owner, or weigh the owner. It is truly amazing that someone who so insists on the transparency of the omask would fail to establish a unique, clear and reviewed list of state property and list the shares on the basis of which the state collects dividends. And it's certainly not some unintentional mistake, some innocent oversight. That's where the big money's hidden. And that is why it is logical for one who swears to transparency to keep the big money secret in front of the Parliament and the public. Because where there's big money there's a big interest and that money's kind of hidden. And that's what the minister actually acknowledges in his testimony to the audit finding when he personally says, the above-mentioned revenues should be put in a broad context of interest and decision. There is indeed a high degree of transparency in this indication. Because the government in the most transparent way can mock the Croatian Parliament and the general public when it openly says that this property did not appear because the proceeds from this property should be put into a broader context of interest. Whose interests? In whose interest is it that state property is not shown and that the proceeds of that property remain secretive? Is that perhaps in the interest of the citizens? It's not. Is it in the interest of this Parliament? It's not either. Well, whose interest is that, then? I guess the one who wrote that embarrassing sentence. Apparently someone in the government or the government has an interest in keeping this secret. In addition to these truly embarrassing, there are comical indications from the Government on the State Audit report. Here is one, the revision concludes, in 2004 the current stock provided expenditure which cannot be considered urgent and unforeseeable as it relates to the regular business of budgetary users, and should therefore be planned, executed from regular positions under the appropriations. For example, the current stock has provided expenditure for the conduct of the election or performance at the Expo 2005 exhibition. In response to this remark, the Government is in response to the fact that in certain cases it is an emergency expenditure and expenditure that is not planned for budgetary users. Well, that's really amazing how far the obvious can be unintelligent. The state audit says they had to plan certain expenditures, not finance from the reserve, and the government is justified for funding them from the reserve because they didn't plan them. It is simply not clear who the government tried to mock, the State Audit, the Parliament, the Croatian public or itself. Because the State Audit warns them nicely that the reserve must not finance expenditures that are not urgent and unpredictable, and the Government responds that everything is fine, because it was precisely these costs that were unpredictable and unpredictable, and it was the costs for carrying out local elections and performances at the Expo exhibition. When local elections were held, they were known to be 4 years before they were held, and they were known for Expo. So Croatia has been participating in the exhibition for years. And here, both of these events for the Croatian government were unpredictable and unpredictable. There are some findings in the report of an audit that the government is not showing at all. Thus, the audit says: "The funds per loan are not withdrawn within the agreed deadlines, but with a delay, and the fees are paid for the unused part of the loan or part of the loan is cancelled.". So this is not what the government is pointing at. But that might be better. Because who knows what we would have to read if they had accidentally gone to explain inexplicably. But you see, the SDP club is still worried. Because the loans were not withdrawn within the agreed deadlines, this is why compensation must now be paid. Because if we need these loans, if we're looking for them, and if they're approved, then we should be willing to accept those loans and spend them on purpose. If he wasn't ready, it means someone's incompetent, and if someone's incompetent, then he needs to be replaced, so if it's the minister, then the minister is replaced. But this way we don't even know what loans are not withdrawn within the deadlines, or who's to blame, or how much this country costs the government's inability to withdraw the agreed loans. The audit report proves that the government is not only incompetent but that it openly, knowingly and deliberately violates the laws. Here are the passports from the lab that prove it. Since the issue of the 230 million kuna bond, Croatia's highway has been known to society. For the application of part of Croatian highway assets, 53 million kuna should be paid to the state budget by 24 February for the corresponding part of the interest which has not been made. In the wake of 21 November 2003, a decision was also taken by the Government which exempts the company from those obligations which will be subject to the burden of the 2004 state budget. It is not in line with the provisions of the Budget Law, the revision said. Well, it's not, of course it's not, we all know it's not. But it's not legal for a government friend to forgive Rabbit for 30 million kunas, so the government did, because the prime minister asked for it, even though his ministers warned it was illegal. But we'll read about these illegalities in the audit findings next year. It is not legal for POA agents to question the dactylographies to find out that a transcript that proves the government's illegal conduct went public, but the State Review will certainly not give its opinion in the coming year. They'll have to give their opinion on it to voters. The basic question here is not to accept or accept this review report, it should be accepted. The main question is what to do with the government that received this review report, but also will be decided by voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55547	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55548	Thank you very much. Mr. Stazic said this was the worst report in years. Obviously, he did not read the 2002 State Audit report on the state budget, page 73, which says not all prescribed financial reports have been submitted to the State Audit Office. No balance has been delivered, the report on expenditure according to function and classification, the report on changes in value... assets and liabilities, no report on commitments, notes with financial report etc. Therefore, in view of the above, it is not possible to express an opinion on all the basic financial reports on the state budget. It was a tragedy, Mr. Stazic, not what you've read now. I said in my speech, the review should tell you the truth, because this is not Croatian television, this is the State Audit.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55549	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55550	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I will correct the incorrect quote of my colleagues, Stazic, where he claimed that all our money was purchased by the late Minister Šuška on temporary work outside, all except weapons. This is absolutely incorrect, because if it hadn't been for that weapon and that money, Croatia wouldn't be free today. And as a sign of the claim that Croatia had a weapon that was obtained from these very coins, I will personally testify, and Mr. Stazic should know that he was in the Croatian Army by any chance then he would see the origin of the weapon and how it was obtained and he would know. He may be ashamed not to know that there are both Romanian and Hungarian rifles that were purchased with these very coins.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55551	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of the lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55552	Mr. Vice President, in his famous inspired speech, counterpart Stazic said this was the first report during Sanader's cabinet's term, which is not true. Here it clearly states that in the context of the specific audits carried out by the office during this reporting period there is also an audit of financial reports and operations for 2002 and 2003, and I believe that all these remarks made by the honourable representative also apply to this reporting period in 2002 and 2003. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55553	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Nevenka Majdenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55554	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Stazic said the government has no opinion on the findings of the audit, which is not true. The find of the State Audit Office in darker letters shows the government with an explanation. However, it is also important to recall the 2003 State Audit report where the government's representative, or the government, did not declare any shortcomings at all, let alone take measures to carry out these tasks.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55555	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Krono Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55556	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, state auditors, lawyers. Inaccurately, Mr. Collar's representative said that Split's Riva is always a personification of democracy, freedom of gathering, so neither are the illusions of good on the Split Riviera where it is in the long past and in the fresher after World War II and after the arrival of "The Train of Freedom" brought together more than 100,000 people. There were little children, not only were Dalmatia gathered, but the whole environment from Bosnia and Herzegovina, and also in protest against the humiliation of the General of the Homeland War, Norchevska, was not a broken window, there was no garbage afterwards, and the latest protest of support for the Croatian government to collect all possible documentation and funds to defend our generals in The Hague. It's a Split Riviera, and that's why we're proud to point out any other illusions.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55557	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55558	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Stazic said Mr. Shuker is unworthy, who will trust him, etc. I'd say this report actually speaks of credibility, so that's an incorrect quote. This report confirms it and proves that the situation is now much better than it was. After all, the Croatian government, neither Shuker personally nor any of the ministers in this government, has its own businesses with which he makes deals or benefits. Finally, Stazic also said the SDP is worried about the report. I would say that he should be more concerned that just his member, Stazic, as chairman of the commission of an hour ago, legalized and justified all possible insubordinations, and is now looking here only an hour later, where they are not available. So it's also proof that it's really working, he asked if Schucker was a double person, and I say if someone did it within an hour, such a change, which is here and who's a double person.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55559	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, distinguished representative Antun Kapraljevic. And it's time to apply for an individual debate for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55560	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, there's 11 in front of us. Report as Mrs Sima Krasic said, 11. The report of the Office of Audit and I must immediately begin to say that the Croatian People's Party will in any case support this report. And normally, every year reports are getting better, more thorough, more quality and normal that everything with, would be quite incorrect if we hadn't been supported by such a report. And I agree with all the things Mrs. Šima Krasic listed in her opening speech when she said what the biggest problems were that the review came across by revising certain entities. This is the first accounting system where Mrs. Šima Krasic said it too, and Mr. Stazic spoke a lot about it, where it was about the list of assets, obligations and claims. Where a simple excuse is that there are no standards, that it has gone to another accounting standard, and that's one excuse why it doesn't all work out. However, the list of assets, liabilities and claims did not account for any property. The one that's been leased to someone, that property hasn't been recorded at all. It repeats the same story that is repeated with all other offices where some property should be recorded. It's also repeated with the Central State Administration Office where we don't know how many citizens we have, we've seen it these days that we don't even know how many citizens we have. We don't know how many citizens we have, we don't know what our assets are, we don't know what our obligations are, we don't know what our claims are. I don't know how long and how long these accounting systems are gonna be in sync and how long we're gonna try to figure out a way to get us to do something, so certain entities can do something like that audit has been asking them to do for years. Another thing that's seen as a lack, which is planning and spending. There, my colleague Majdenic said that those 3.3 billion, as redistributed in the budget, are not significant funds and that it is nothing, because it is only 3 and something. Either you or someone else, I don't know, I apologize. However, these are large funds and these are significant funds if we know what the budget was then 3.3 billion that have been redistributed and 3.4 billion that I will talk about later that have been spent without public procurement or not made in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, it is already 6.7 billion kunas that have been spent as it should not actually be and how the Parliament has not allowed these funds to be spent. And the third thing that I would like to talk about, which is the public procurement process and that's what Mr. Hebrang said, that these are insignificant means, that the situation is being repaired and that it's not as bad as it was in previous years. However, I would also like to read what it says about public procurement procedures in the find of the State Audit. Where it is said that the value of public procurement in the audited entities was 9 billion and 669 million and what was small, representing 11.2% of the total expenditure and expenditure of the audited entities. Ms. Sima Krasic later said 15 billion, that it was total. So even bigger is the part that was covered by this revision, and it means that there is more than 11.2% of these public procurement procedures. And among other things, in this review report, it says: purchases totalling 3.4 billion plus something small have not been fully implemented in accordance with the regulations, and purchases totalling 91,940 million kuna have been made without the application of the rules governing the area of public procurement. It would appear to the ministry as Mr Hebrang said and said it was not some significant asset. However, I would say and point out in any case those ministries which, I am talking about public procurement, have done in accordance with the law, it is the Ministry of European Integration, the Ministry of Finance and the Customs Administration, while in the IRS there is another story. The Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity and the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare. That's what I'd say anyway. But there are also things that I can't possibly praise, and I couldn't possibly agree with what Mr. Hebrang said. And this is about the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, which is about 3 billion 230 million kuna. Where 2 billion 772 were spent on drugs and 466 million kunas or 467 million kunas were spent on orthopedic aid. It was all done without, not made in accordance with the Public Procurement Act and where the State Audit says so. Let's say, first of all, for this smaller item, and these are orthopedic aids where they are said to be: prices at which orthopaedic aids were delivered in 2004 and other aids were determined by a public tender held in 97. So, since 97, I can't believe that with so many drug manufacturers and so many orthopaedic aid manufacturers that appeared in Croatia in the meantime, I can't believe that prices have remained at 97 today. And I can't believe the public competition couldn't achieve a lower price. The exact same thing is with medicines where Mr. Hebrang says there's been a misunderstanding or that it's a clumsy interpretation or that it's misread as being dealt with by the rule. The review report says this: 2 billion kuna and 772 million kuna are planned for prescription drugs, which is more than or 38.6% for 772 million kuna. The provisions of the Law on Medicinal Products and so on are laid down that in order to achieve optimal supply of the necessary medicinal products for the health care of the population, the price of medicinal products on the Croatian market must be suited to the social structure of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with those objectives, the Minister responsible for Health lays down the criteria for the determination of the price of medicinal products and the manner of reporting on the prices of medicinal products. The provisions of the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices in the section relating to the price of medicinal products are not in line with the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, according to which prices are determined by the collection of tenders submitted for public competition. In 2004, suppliers of medicinal products were selected without public procurement, and the prices of medicinal products were determined by negotiations with suppliers. No one can convince me that the price with suppliers can be arranged far better than it can be agreed in the public procurement process, but to go back and that's how Mr. Hebrang said when he talked about health care facilities, if only 10% went there without meaning and if it was spent or under quotes "stolen," if only 10% he talked about 150 million and talked about saving a thousand lives, I don't know exactly what screening he was talking about, but he was talking about a thousand lives. Here, in this public procurement process, it was the same thing that happened, and it means that if 10% went into some kind of theft, it was 323 million kuna and it's 2,000 lives, and that's why they can't agree that it was done in accordance with what it says in the state audit findings, that it was done in accordance with the social situation in Croatia, and therefore they can't agree with another finding, which is that local self-government on its 130 million kunas that she obtained without public procurement that they are insignificant funds. No, if we know that most of them have received an unsatisfactory assessment and if we see what the amounts are and if we know what the budgets are, the units of local self-government, I say they're huge funds and I wonder here what other irregularities were, but I wonder what's going to happen, it says Mrs... she wrote about what would happen, and I wonder if it would be implemented and done in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, writes like this "in cases where irregularities were identified, the office ordered the application in accordance with the provisions of the Public Procurement Act". [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Public Procurement Act states that if certain provisions of the Law are not respected, the penalty is from 5 to 50 thousand kuna. I wonder if it will be respected or if this will remain what you do in vain, we listen to the same story every year, every year Mrs... And her review office makes an excellent report and every year the same mistakes are repeated and no one has ever been sanctioned for anything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I wonder if at least this part of the public procurement bill will be sanctioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55561	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55562	Thank you very much. Mr. Kapraljevic has given a series of incorrect allegations, I will reach the red light of your Mr. President three. First, he says I was saying that the misunderstanding between the HZZ and the State Audit refers to 2004. That's not true. It's been going on for 10 years. I quote the 2002 report for HZZO where the State Audit 2002 says that the Croatian Health Insurance Institute did not conduct procedures under the Public Procurement Act and orthopaedic aids amounting to 2 billion kuna 400 million in 2002. Furthermore, he says I argued that insignificant funds that did not go under the Public Procurement Act and local administration are incorrect. They're huge funds, I said they're smaller than the last four years. And third, that 230 million has been stolen because HZZO drugs have not been obtained on public procurement, but no one in Europe is getting drugs by public tender for reasons I explained earlier, and for Mr. Kapraljevic, I will repeat when this light goes out in four eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55563	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Honorable Representative Luka Roic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55564	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Madam State Auditors and Gentlemen Associates, and on behalf of the HSS, I will say a few words about this year's State Audit report, and I will agree with those who have said that for the 11th time about the first sentence of the State Audit begins in the same way, and I, unlike those who criticise it, say that this is good, because there will be irregularities as long as there is a world and a century, and that it is less good to hear them no matter who is responsible or guilty. I don't think it's the purpose of these reports to each other... and we resent that the report is not at the level at which it could have been to actually degrade and underestimate the work of this or that government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The goal of these audits is to operate in accordance with the law, and that is what I think we all must be interested in first of all. Of course, these reports can't be devoid of political assessments, but I remember when these reports were passed in the morning at the most active and most attractive times when they were almost the most interesting show, when everyone looked with attention at the state auditor because after a long time the citizen wanted to know how the state funds were available and how they were being spent, whether they were doing business under the most positive legal regulations, whether they were being respected... , whether spending is done rationally and whether the most correct way of publishing and respecting the Public Procurement Act is handled in the business of the state budget and the budget of the units of local self-government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I will, unlike others who have spoken more about the reports and picantries in this report, talk about the report on the activities undertaken by the beneficiaries of the budget for 2003, because if I remember correctly, and it seems to me that I have listened carefully to all speakers as if not interested in what was done in the findings of the State Audit report and why the Croatian Parliament is actually underestimating itself because it is the decision of this House and we have actually asked for something that none of us has even looked back on and it is actually very interesting. We often waste time but it actually seems to be the fate of politics on beliefs and empty stories and we are unable to neither check our decisions nor find out about them what the competent authority and the competent ministry have done with what we have committed them to. No one noticed, for example, that in the previous report in the State Audit findings, the guarantees at the time exceeded a significant plan by almost 52%, which I personally and in the HSS are holding very serious overruns. The activities I have read there in this report are to form a multi-annual record of all the guarantees issued, which is fine. For financial guarantees, multi-annual checks are drawn up on guarantees which are still active, for which a reprogramme has been carried out, and for guarantees that have been put out of force on a variety of grounds. And it's also fine. However, which means the next measure, i.e. the sentence, which states that a proposal for a Regulation on the conditions and manner of granting State guarantees is drawn up and the text is in line. So the proposal for a rulebook has been well-worked for a few years now, I can say, and it's still in tune. Whether it will be agreed and when it will be agreed and when the regulation proposal becomes a rulebook, I leave it to all of us to wait and think. What was most important to me was left at last. As in previous years, for example, I remember that the Privatisation Fund has always had a lot of irregularities and, above all, in the list of real estates and their records in business books, incomes have deviated from the planned funds, from the shares, stakes, things and rights, and are not to be retained by law but to be paid into the budget. We remember the details that we all noticed with three lawyers that the fund had concluded the agreement on the cobwebs, no matter how much I understood the work that had been done. Uncoordinated state of change and portfolio values in operational records and business books. The value of shares and shares by other holders is not made up. Long ago in 1998, long-term loans were given to the burden of the state budget for the inclusion of a 20th company from the Danube to the economic system of the Republic of Croatia, according to that report in 2003. According to the Croatian Government's decision, the loan had to be converted as much as I remember the share of funds in these societies and it was only done in three societies. A bankruptcy procedure has been opened for six, and their claim has been reported in the bankruptcy and in the other twelve companies the claims have not been converted into stakes. The State Audit Office's report stated that the Privatisation Fund had money, for example, funds. His own funds, if I recall, were well-deployed at a 3% interest rate while at the same time taking loans at a 4% interest rate. The State Audit Office was of the opinion that it is not justified to pay the costs of the English language course, for example abroad in the measures to remove irregularities, is also an unusual statement by the Croatian Privatisation Fund entity. He says he has not paid foreign language learning costs abroad except for the case listed in the State Audit Office's report. It's about how I understand it as if a thief, for example, caught in a theft defends himself in a way that he never stole but when you caught him. With regard to the use of lawyers who have been paid a flat-rate explanation quite unconvinced because it is once again casually claimed that the otherwise concluded agreement on applicable tariffs in individual cases would be more expensive than the flat-rate contract, although such a flat-rate contract does not determine all the tasks that lawyers are obliged to carry out. Finally, however, the argument concludes that a legal aid contract with two lawyers will be terminated and that in the legal sector, the Croatian Privatisation Fund has increased the number of employees in the representation service. The audit report also calls for a rational availability of money that I was already talking about. The debate I was talking about is justified by the need to reserve a certain amount of funds for the event of a giro-account blockade due to litigation procedures that already established first-degree rulings establishing the very high obligations of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. This could be a realistic and acceptable explanation, but as well as an audit of the opinion that the fund should not have put up the funds at the same time as it has registered obligations to the commercial banks because the interest on the dispensation is generally lower than the interest on the credits received. There are still a lot of interesting reports of individual audited subjects, but we are more concerned about some sensationalistic findings in new reports that can certainly suffer criticism, but the revision has said it quite correctly in my report, and we in the HSS think that the report has been made as always very professionally, that it has been made very well and that all those activities that would improve the work of the audited subjects can be done. I said at first it's nice that the majority of subjects have unconditional opinion, which conditional opinion has received a certain number of business entities but it's probably about infringements that can and will be corrected and that indeed the smallest number of these unsatisfactory and those who have not, of course, brought their business into line with the law. This is about a comprehensive report of a large number of subjects, we said 879 over 118 billion kuna and certainly it's very important how these funds are spent. They all said that the biggest problem in the list of assets, the spending of budget funds, and the particular problem is the non-compliance with the Public Procurement Act and in this direction as my colleagues have said before me, if it is 15 billion kunas subject to that obligation to disregard the law or the non-implementation of the Public Procurement Act creates damage to about 2/5 of these funds, which is a very, very large number and from that basis it is possible to do great damage and indeed everything should be done in order to reduce the number of offenders and those who do not use funds under the Law. We believe that every report and future one will be even better and that all those who have made a mistake, and they did not intend to commit a crime, but did so for some other reason, will be this last warning that they will certainly comply with all the legal regulations in the future. We in the HSS also once again emphasise the opinions that this report has been made very professional and all observed shortcomings should be forwarded to all those institutions and to all those institutions that are in charge of solving such problems, and we expect that each new report will be even better and better quality with fewer shortcomings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55565	Thank you very much. HSP's respected representative, Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55566	Honorable Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, honored gentlemen from the Office of the State Audit Office and the State's Attorney's Office. My colleagues focused on the report itself or on the State Audit findings. I'd like to say a few words about the conditions under which the State Audit works. So I'd like to devote myself to the Audit Office and his work. At the 14th session of the Assembly on the discussions on State Audit Office reports as well as in all previous discussions, the HSP Club always stressed the need for status and financial independence of the State Audit Office. That this is imperative, that this is an necessity stemming not only from the legal system of the Republic of Croatia but also from elementary logic, but also from international and European commitments. At the end of last year, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Payments of Authorised State Auditors was passed, which did not actually improve their salaries, but returned to the level in which it was already in 2001. I especially note this because we expect the State Audit Office to be efficient, to oversee a complete system of state administration, to monitor these 100 billion kunas that the Croatian state spends through the budget and budget funds. And these people, at the same time, we keep our wages low. This salary is much lower today than, say, the salaries of the more minor state bodies. I say the least important not because they are less important for the supervision of individual sectors of the Croatian state than because the revision should and should be monitored by the following logic, and should be paid better. For example, the salary of the State Audit is less than the salary of the Competition Protection Agency, of the State Commission for Public Procurement Control, and so on, which determines all the wages to themselves and to its Statute. In contrast, the State Audit has been paid by law. Of course, there is another problem, which is that the employees of the State Audit Office are actually civil servants. They are subject to the Law on civil servants and the point is that they are in the real government and the Ministry of Finance because they can have a different effect on the position and status of the State Audit Office and its employees. I repeat, unlike all these various state commissions, independent regulators, and so on, that determine their own wages, which are independent of the government, which are not civil servants and deputies State audit, its employees who should oversee the entire system, and the government itself and the Ministry of Finance are actually civil servants, civil servants and, consequently, are actually subsidized to the Government and the Ministry of Finance. The State Audit Office shall have the obligation to report to the Ministry of Finance. So it's exactly the one you'd have to monitor. Therefore, in the existing legal system, we cannot actually talk about some independent position of the State Audit Office and the introduction of texts and reports that the audit is carried out by authorised state auditors in a manner and according to the procedures established by the audit standards of the International Organisation of the Supreme Audit Institutions can only be taken as partially accurate because these standards speak of the status of national audits and authorised auditors in a slightly different way than that of us. We attribute this to a modest nature of our auditors and that there is a lot written in these reports between the lines. Confirmation that this is how we can find it on pages 125 and 126 of this report, which states that the position of our State Audit is not fully in line with European standards. And the European Union has already placed us in the same basket as Bulgaria, Romania, Turkey and Albania through the European Court of Auditors. The other day during the debate on the justice reform strategy, there was also talk of some kind of "tweeting project" carried out by Finnish experts along with our experts. In fact, they reveal hot water in this project, so the number of inhabitants according to the territorial jurisdiction of courts and the number and type of cases in individual courts. They collect and analyze data that we know has always been collected and analyzed. But what's interesting is that similar "tweeting" project also has a State Audit Office. "Tweening" partner to our State Audit Office is the State Audit Office of Great Britain. The project is said on page 126 of this report to be divided into 4 main but interlinked components and covers a whole series of activities, analyses, seminars, manual making, a pilot review whose work would be fully in line with international audit standards and best European practice. It is evident from this text that hot water is re-discovered, that completely pointless activities are being carried out that we can carry out ourselves and that we do not need any "tweening partner" from Great Britain to do so. We know what European standards are and we know how to follow our own laws and set up the State Audit Office. It should be pointed out that European experts should be engaged in jobs where they can really help us, not that we present ourselves to them as some kind of "banana" country that moves in every area... which has no idea, and we are even using such obedient concepts that someone from the European Union is teaching us things that are completely visible and where standards are very clearly written. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, what is even more interesting is that the completion of this "tweening" programme, which consists of analysis, seminars, manual making and pilot reviewing, would almost fully comply with international audit standards and best European practice. So, we believe that this is really pretentious, that in this way you can't really talk about harmonisation and it's for a one-banal reason, which is that the legal system in which it works and has to act, the State Audit Office is not at all compatible with the English legal system. England, i.e. Great Britain ladies and gentlemen, we all know it has an Anglo-Saxon legal system, and Croatia has a system of continental rights. Well, since we're already doing some kind of "tweening" project, then at least we could have taken a partner from some of the countries that have a system of continental rights, not a system of Anglo-Saxon rights like that of Great Britain. Our system is far more compatible with French, German, and all Central European countries and their legal systems, and then we could really say that the State Audit Office will teach us with such a partner who has to teach us in accordance with European practice. So we support this report as always, with two fundamental questions. So, first of all, does it make sense to file a review report to the Parliament if those who are identified as guilty and responsible are not processed by the gentlemen of the State's Attorney's Office? And the second question is why systems like this, such projects of harmonisation with European practice when doing it in such a sloppy and completely pointless way, instead of doing it ourselves and not embarrassing ourselves with it, rather than taking European standards and adapting ourselves to it. Or if we are already taking partners to be someone from countries with a similar legal tradition as our Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55567	Thank you very much. The debate by the clubs in the basic exhibition is over. We have 23 MPs and representatives reported. First, a respected representative of Miroslav Korenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55568	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, Madam State Auditor. At first, I must commend the work of this small number of teams of the State Audit Office because I know that I have met with the work of the State Audit Office in what conditions they work, especially in the field offices where there are relatively few auditors, but it seems to me that the general assessment is made both in quality and correct and very professionally this material. Regardless of everything, it seems to me that, in general, we have an improvement in the state of affairs in local and regional self-government units, so that's my opinion, so I'm going to take a turn. What we should all pay more attention to together than we've given so far is the irregularities that happen all the time. It seems to me that we, but also the Government in particular, based on the State Audit report on irregularities that arise, we should initiate changes or the adoption of brand-new laws in order to avoid the repetition of such irregularities from year to year. It seems to me that most often what is happening to me and what is especially important to me and what I am paying particular attention to is that we have the most irregularities, so often times and illegalities in respect of the application of the Public Procurement Act. If we look at this short part of it, it's a pretty big space, and I'm just going to quote a few things that show that it's obviously someone's right or wrong to respect the law. We have that very often no committee has been appointed before the start of the procurement process, no at least two acceptable offers have arrived. In doing so, we should say that the law often knows by itself to be a brake for the work of certain smaller bodies of the state administration and more public enterprises. Let's just say, I'm going to give an example, when it happens, and it seems to me two years ago that there was a tunnel collapse on the line, that respect for the Public Procurement Act would probably not have been in traffic for six months. Clearly, as legislators, therefore, we need to change some items of that law to make it more flexible, but on the other hand, that those who apply it have greater responsibility by having greater rights. Unfortunately, the public procurement process is often played out, which is also here for some companies, i.e. for some institutions and it was made that, instead of having a unique public procurement procedure because the amounts that occur over the year are well above 200 thousand kuna, several competitions up to two hundred kunas occur in a elegant and fine way to bypass the whole process. Therefore, obviously there should be more control. And what's very important, which is the lower level, it seems to me that they are both easier and more played out by the public procurement process. It's not just a matter of education, it's a matter of being at lower local levels, and it's easier to do with the logic of "you to me." Also, the particular problem which is afforded here is that the Budget Law is not respected and that there is no structure, or that internal control bodies are not set up, especially in local self-government units. And what really hurts me in all of this is, and here I am, I don't know, it seems to me that my colleague Hebrang went out, and I wanted to do a little polymize with him, and we have reports for the first time for health care institutions and regional self-government units, so for general hospitals. One of those hospitals whose audit report is truly horror and very interesting reading is the General Hospital in Vukovar. There was, and fellow Hebrang was saying that some directors had been removed because they were producing losses. I'm going to be so free, I'm going to quote some items from a five-page review report at Vukovar General Hospital for 2002 and 2003. First of all, the State Audit Office expressed an unfavourable opinion on the financial reports and business of the General Hospital in Vukovar for 2002 and 2003. When you see what these items are and what is happening here, then I can ask you both myself and especially my colleague Hebrang, will he personally be a prominent member of the party who manages and has responsibility for government management in this country, whether he will insist that such a director, or director, be replaced. First of all, it is said: The hospital carried out a list of properties and liabilities for 2002 and 2003, as well as a list for 2002 and 2003 did not cover construction buildings and construction land. After a list was made for the two years, the Commission did not draw up reports on the list. Also, the financial plan for that year did not consider and bring forward the administrative council of the hospital, which would also be the founder of the hospital, so the Vukovar-Srijem County should ask very much why their representatives took care of the money of all taxpayers of this country and of course health insurance companies. Public procurement seems to be a special topic going on there. It is said during 2002 that vehicles worth 103,000 kuna were purchased during 2003. 59 thousand kuna and computer equipment, etc. etc. without the public procurement procedure being carried out. That's exactly what I'm saying, which is a lower level it's easier to spend money on taxpayers. You also have that in 2003, expenses for the purchase of medical equipment amounting to €491,000 920 were recorded, which refers to the paid advance of the supplier in August 2003. Prior to payment of advances to the supplier, no prior consent of the Ministry of Finance was obtained. The contract with the supplier is closed before the deadline for the submission of the complaint. The purchase was cancelled, and the paid advance was not refunded by the end of 2003. I hope it was done later. So here I am now openly asking, and I'm sorry that there are no fellow Hebrangs, whether to insist that such, too, directors be replaced. Because the fact is that we have and we have to admit, problems in running general hospitals around the county. The problems are certain, we know that the health problem is great. However, there are typical not even irregularities but illegalities observed here. I can ask myself and you what we will do together to get a report on the responsibility of those who have committed not only irregularities, it may be criminal charges, so the lawless courts will bring their own legal order. However, there are laws that are knowingly or unconsciously broken. Therefore, some of them should also be said of the state's attorney. The natural thing, most often when it comes to units of regional and local self-government, the one who has a majority in that representative body, so if it's about his headship, then he'll find a way to justify everything that's been going on. Also, what is particularly eye-stamping, and a colleague, Stazic, spoke on behalf of the SDP club, is about the funds relating to the state budget. We must say that this report is a step back in the quality of the audit report, not as it was done, but in the business of the state. I cannot agree with my colleague Majdenic, who says only 3.2% of the budget money has been redistributed without the knowledge of this House of Highs. This isn't about one kuna, it's about principles. One more thing I would like to point out, which can also be read from reports like this, is about the business of local and regional self-government units. It is evident that all units of local and regional self-government had only 14.3% compared to the public revenues achieved. This shows that Croatia is still an extremely centralised state and that all together we must work not only verbally but in this House of Higher House by passing laws that will allow regional and local self-government units to have most of the financial cookies, greater powers, but also greater responsibility for what they will do. Here you can read one more thing. That units of local self-government, unfortunately, did not do everything to increase their incomes. On page 43, it is said that I will quote, meaning tax on unprocessed farm land, tax on unused corporate properties and tax on unbuilt building land are simply installed as a mechanism for individual units of local self-government. However, such a tax is often not collected, i.e. the conclusion is clear that the introduction of local taxes and the regulation of rates or amounts of taxes is not in a co-ordination with the amount of funds necessary to collect in order to satisfy a certain scope of public income. Because the most common are either minimum rates or taxes, or they simply don't come true and there's no responsibility for that. I'm done. I'm in favour of accepting a report like this from the State Audit because it's made of quality. However, once again I stress, let's initiate amendments to the law on irregularities and illegalities that are often repeated and let's also give...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55569	It'd be too much already.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55570	Here's the last sentence. We're going on more responsibility than it's ever been for all those who break laws and regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55571	Replica, the esteemed representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55572	Thank you very much, Mr. President. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55573	Wait, something tells me it was... Okay, now I've spoken to myself, and then the correction of the incorrect quote, the respected representative Josip Markovanovic. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] How? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You're the one who picked it up? That's your hand? I'm sorry, I saw in the first wave that it was a hand, it was a mistake with my hand. Then respected representative Nevenka Majdenic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55574	Your Honor, Mr. President, Commissioner Korenika said that I said that it was, that she had redistributed the budget funds that they were insignificant funds. I've really pointed out that it's 3.2%, and I think that, yes and I said, I've corrected an incorrect assumption that it's not working, it's not respecting Parliament's will. With 3.2% of these funds, and that does not mean that the Parliament's will is not respected, but the funds have been used rationally, and I have stated that the largest item in that redistribution was 217 million kuna that went for the pensioners, so I still think that it is better to spend it on pensions than to have those funds standing irrationally in some budget item.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55575	Replica, the esteemed representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55576	Thank you again, Mr. President, respected representatives of the State Audit, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, I was distracted by my colleague's argument with Korenik when he called the hospital in Vukovar. It seems to me that the whole debate in Parliament is being conducted on the principle of alibi. The Constitution of the Republic states in Article 70 that the representative body is the citizens of the Croatian Parliament, and in Article 80 that the Croatian Parliament brings a state budget, and in paragraph 2 it oversees the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and other holders of public duties. Well, it's not the Vukovar Hospital that's responsible to Parliament, it's the Ministry of Health and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. That's another thing. We are discussing here the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for spending the money of citizens of the Republic of Croatia in 2004. Speaking of which, then, we are also calling on a state lawyer to lead the supervision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is simply not correct. It is our task to assess whether the Government has spent this money in accordance with the 2004 Budget. Well, that's a clear conclusion. Six billion and 600 million were spent outside the law. Now, which we will decide, it is the responsibility of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55577	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55578	I thank my colleague, Lek, for giving me the opportunity to speak once more, but I didn't ask for anyone to be in this High House, anyone who fits, especially the general hospital director in Vukovar. However, it is only an eclectic example of which, in health care, money is spent entirely irrationally, often illegally and illegally. I'm sorry that he wasn't here, and I note again, and fellow Hebranga because I was trying to pollomise with him whether he would seek through his party that the county that has the founding rights of the General Hospital in Vukovar is doing something to such an apparent violation of the law. Because I've only read one small part of what it really says. As for rational use of funds and everything else, it's not about principles. If we stick to this High House and the laws that we've brought ourselves, then about any redistribution or most redistribution, if nothing else is to be given to this High House. The question may be that one hundred kunas may be very important today, and over 3 billion is very important money, especially if it is the money of taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55579	Dear Representative Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55580	Mr. President, Madam Chief Auditor with Associates, Representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. Now, 11 times, we're discussing the find, or the State Audit report, the annual report, and what is it that we only discuss in all those 11 years when we agree? We agree that the State Audit is professionally doing the job. And there was no one here in Parliament in all these meetings when we discussed the find of the State Audit that would say something different. And that's really good, to have one such institution that has managed to master the methodology used by all democratic states of Europe in those 11 years. Which, for the second year, reports on how funds are being used, so rationally, gives us an expert opinion. So the State Audit has mastered the full work that was entrusted to her. What, though, follows, if we are to read these accounts a little more carefully? It follows that we in Parliament and in government have not mastered it. So when I say in government, then I mean that the government doesn't give us such quality legal proposals that we could, through the debate, possibly and complement and that we would then be in line with the State Audit. I also last year, last year when we discussed the 2003 Report, that's exactly what I warned and said that the state audit should be used in that part of the legislation relating to the financial operations of the state, as well as local communities. To get an expert review from that level of such laws that we bring here in Parliament. Namely, we pass the law then it takes another 50 sublegal acts that we can't bring in in two or three years. This is also the case in the previous State Audit report as well as in this Report. And we make five, six, seven conclusions every year that follow from the debate. Last year we said, here are the conclusions of the HDZ Club, I'm not going to talk about the part where it's said that the reports are being accepted, but under points 6 and 7, we've been tasked with having the State's Attorney's Office and the Government deliver us a report on the measures launched on the basis of the State Audit Report for 2003, and we've got this and we're getting a little less debate today, and I think maybe we should discuss it a little bit more, and then it would probably come up with something useful for 2005, 6 next year. But we also accepted two conclusions proposed by the SDP Club. In the first, to submit a programme for the long-term removal of irregularities to the Croatian Parliament. So the government here has given us a review of the measures it has taken for 2003, but we can tell from it that these are not just measures for one year, but that they are long-term measures, so I will say that in an example and in a few later terms. The second law even referred to that the Office for State Property Management should provide the current list of assets owned and used by the State, and inform the Assembly thereof, and complete the full list by the end of the year. There we were, perhaps, with that deadline too strict to see later in a government report that was manifested by that conclusion. And therefore, those two conclusions should be a little more permanent so that they can be carried out. And so, the government sent us a report, and now that we try to say a few sentences, behind that and the actual 2004 report itself, then I'd say it's not very good to discuss how we're discussing the position or opposition when we're discussing these reports. Then what happens? When we're in a position we're a little less responsible for the spoken word, but then it hits us on the head when we come to power. Well, that's what happened with this 2003 and 2004 report. Let's see how it was discussed a year ago on the 2003 Report on the same things that were mentioned in the 2004 report. Let's see what the government says. It says it shows, or says what measures should be implemented by 30 June 2005, and then it turns out that very few of these measures are possible to do so. As far as I'm concerned, here's just for example. In the state budget, I'll say. Well, not all the rules, etc., we have similar rules in this year, and the government says it's not that simple and it's going to be passed during 2005 and 2006, and here we've done the maltenes in the drama debate of what wasn't. It says the accounts of the State Audit Office relating to accounting operations where there are a lot of these observations of the State Office in all these years, and in 2004 what we will see, and the Government is being shown in the last sentence to say because of the insufficient number of staff the process is long-term, so we really need to do what I think some of us are warning for several years that we need to really train people who work in the State Administration, especially in this segment of financial operations or is the same finding when it is said that the balance sheet does not include all the data, so that there is between those internal and analyticals and the balance itself that they are not harmonised. In particular, this applies to guarantees, to these loans. He says, due to insufficient personnel, the process is long, that the register is completed in March, but that the whole project will last until the end of 2006. So, he says, in noting that more realistic plans should be made, the government said in its measures taken that it would propose to raise the control of available accounting resources to a higher level of economic classification in 2006, thus reducing the need for frequent redistributions. I'm glad to see you at the Ministry of Finance, our colleague who worked at the State Audit Office, so I think that's going to be progress. Or so, I could go further through this government statement about what they've done to eliminate irregularities, and we can see that it's not that simple to do, and that there's a lot to do in order to remove certain irregularities, or it's always going to be to a lesser extent. We have a case that the government showed itself to us on the 2003 report with a very broad opinion on what she didn't do for this year. She said, among other things, that she would only take note of this report and point to a series of irregularities that were recorded in the office itself. However, this year it does not say that, and almost identical things we could read from the budget. According to the main book of the auxiliary book, not all information is provided, not all obligations at the site of origin are recorded, etc., for the redistribution of 3 billion and 200 million kuna have not been reported by the Parliament. We talked about it that it was wrong to do the 2004 budget, and they assured us it was okay. I'm glad the State Audit says it's not right, that's what needs to be done. However, how the government thinks it is necessary to report to the Assembly on redistribution. Look, we got a letter from the government on December 23rd that lists the "National Journal" in which the redistribution was made for 2005. It's redeployed the entire budget, all items. Look in December 3 times there have been redistributions to, of course, harmonize the implementation of the budget with the plan and again, I think it's not right for the government to inform us so. And in the end, I'd say something just in these minutes about the Privatisation Fund. I said that last year, but it's inadmissible that the Supervisory Board hasn't met for a year and a half, that he hasn't discussed the business plan or the State Audit report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55581	Thank you. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue on this wheel. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go. He's pulling. Dear representative Milanka Opačić. She's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. This is the whole thing, it can be called a slaughter. And the esteemed representative Marko Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55582	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, distinguished Mrs. Auditor, esteemed ladies and gentlemen. I carefully read and studied the State Audit Report. In my court, this is a methodologically very high-quality report made and the auditor herself says that she has also used the report, i.e. the State Office has used the international standards of our best and foreign audit houses. It therefore provides one picture of the situation in the business of all our institutions that are subject to the State's audit. What I kind of miss as a man who knows the business of the ministries well, which is that in these annual reports there is no reference to removing the shortcomings observed by the previous audit. The auditor, ma'am... has stated that they have been reduced, etc., that the deficiencies have been removed, but it is obvious that my belief is that the Government and our ministers have taken a lot of action to remove what was in 2003 during their work and business in 2004 but it would be very useful if in the reports a brief review of what has been removed, which is not removed because obviously some things are small and in my court when we are here in the Croatian Assembly to discuss the Law on Procurement and Service at least I will argue that some things in access to the supply of goods and services are slightly different because the biggest number of remarks is our revision in this domain. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I tried to analyze the business of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning here this year, so I'm saying that I'm kind of missing an evaluation because for 2003, the State Audit for the Business of the Ministry was actually catastrophic. It's a disaster on every basis that's being watched. It was bad that it couldn't be worse and I'm not going to mention the specific data now, I mention it more because today it took all day in the Croatian Parliament to discuss the report of our commission led by Mr Stazic, who was not worthy of a single word to say that the commission in his work discussed the State Audit report. So who's more credible in this country than the State Audit and the Attorney General? Well, that report was supposed to be considered by our committee, but let's let it go now. I'll concentrate on the report now. The State audit carried out a review of the financial reports and financial operations of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning and Construction. She found that report conditionally okay. The report also noted that during the course of the business year, the ministry achieved a total income of 395 million or 97% of the planned. I think that this is one real example of orderly business and budget spending and actually, the State Audit only has an objection to some small retail purchases of goods and services that, for a few tens of thousands, cross the border prescribed by the Regulation. Knowing this ministry where there are almost a little less than 500 employees who perform such complex and responsible tasks, I think this report can be assessed very well, of course, along with those remarks made by the State Audit. Almost a similar situation is with the Environmental Protection Agency, which operates in the ministry, which employs only 13 people. It was due to the transformation that was carried out in early 2004 in the situation that it had to move to new business premises, which is why costs were incurred that were not planned and the State's audit quite correctly cited the deviations that occurred in the business. However, the State Audit estimated that the business of the report could be assessed by the Agency on a conditional basis. I hope next year they can and give a far better and more positive assessment. What creates, for the truth, a dilemma on how to assess the report of the Agency for Legal Traffic and Real Estates is based on my court's exact change in the way in which the Agency operates in early 2004 compared to the business that was in... In fact, the agency planned a income of 124 million and achieved it according to the same methodology as in 2003 business with 750 million because the funds are accountingly and financially transformed through the Ministry of Environment Protection at the Ministry of Environment Protection. [[The speaker doesn't understand because of the noise.]] I think, Madam Auditor, on the basis of your findings, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning will have to do its financial business records in this year in accordance with these instructions because everything I've done is not our illegal and illegal act. But, financially execute, make a financial report for any business year must be made by one other methodology so that one of these same funds is not counted three times from one ministry to another ministry, to the third ministry, and in fact it is one of those same funds. Here, Mr. President, I will certainly support the State Audit Office report. But I also support the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Regulation report which, in my court, is 300% better and neater than it was in 2003. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55583	Thank you. Honorable representative Vlado Jelkovac. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55584	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues! As every year, the State Audit Office submits its reports on the audits carried out to the Croatian Assembly for adoption and I will refer to the 2004 State Budget Review report in my presentation. At first, I would like to highlight the general assessment and opinion of the State Audit Office but also to underline certain actions and effects that affected the assessment and character of the business in 2004. According to the State Audit Office, the 2004 State Budget Financial Report is shown objectively and truthfully in all aspects. The findings and recommendations of the State Audit have been made clear by the legislator, which explains why some reporting gaps and the proposed measures and procedures have arisen to remove these shortcomings and the real deadlines in which this can be done. I do not want to go back to reports and audit orders from before in which the legal representative has not or often failed to declare, let alone take steps to carry out the tasks, but I must underline that during 2004, actions have been taken to build a single and comprehensive financial and information system in order to ensure full record and daily recording of business changes in the main book and auxiliary books, and it is necessary to build a single and complete financial and information system, and this is not a short-term and simple job. This is also where the employment of new employees and their education is under way so that these processes can be carried out within the planned deadlines. The following is done in the field of accounting and regarding the tasks of the State Audit. So all short-term loans were recorded. All business changes in kuna and foreign currency are updated daily. The withdrawal and payment of the loan has been coordinated. All requests for activated guarantees have been recorded. All obligations for issued foreign and foreign bonds have been recorded. In connection with the establishment of records of social or mostly state-owned societies, there is a unique record of all companies at the Croatian Privatisation Fund and, in cooperation with FINA, a record of dividend income was established during 2005. The customs administration carried out a list of properties at border crossings towards Bosnia and Herzegovina, and a total list will be completed in 2006. In addition, the customs administration closed both the deposit account and the revenues made under special regulations to actually be paid into a single bank account. A concession register has also been prepared together with FINA on the basis that it is now possible to obtain current insight into the situation of concessions through FINA's E-cards. Public debt has been implemented since 2004, a public debt management project that implies a new, new information system and a reorganisation of the public debt management sector. On the other hand, for the provision of data necessary for the establishment of records, for example on state property, data from grantshops and catastras that are under way. As regards the findings of the State Audit, no specific implementing rules or rules of the Ministry of Finance indicate that some regulations have been adopted and that a certain number is in place and that some have to be reviewed given that they are related to laws which must also be amended or are under way to adopt or amend them. It is necessary to say that nine regulations have been passed that are very important and I will read them. Therefore, a Regulation on budgetary accounting and the accounting plan has been adopted, the Financial Reporting Regulation in budgetary accounting, the Budgetary Control Regulation, the Internal Audit Regulation of Budgetary users, the Register of Users, the Rules on the Official Card of the Budgetary Inspector, the Rules on the handling of the borrowing of the unit of local and regional (regional) self-government and the provision of guarantees of the unit of regional (regional) self-government, the Regulation on the determination of budget users and on the management of the budget register, the concessions Regulation. Therefore, the adoption of these regulations shows that the Government, that the Ministry of Finance, is constantly taking measures to ensure that all implementing rules are adopted. I think that all that has not been passed, that we can accept the allegations of the Ministry of Finance as a processing because given the intensity of harmonisation and compliance with the legal regulations with the legal gains of the European Union. Nothing less is less important than the fact that individual opinions and findings of the State audit relating to the 2004 State budget are already installed in the draft budget for 2005 and 2006 respectively. I primarily think about redistributing budgets, more realistic planning of income and income and expenditure, and the use of funds for current stocks. For example, 45 decisions were made in 2003. And in 2004, 33 decisions on redistribution of budgets were, therefore, 11 decisions less. Thus, more rational planning, earlier planning automatically contributes to better use of income and expenditure, achieving planned objectives and effects, real implementation and ultimately reduced need for redistribution of funds. According to the State Audit, 27 warrants and recommendations have been carried out which is a far better situation than in 2003. It is true that some orders have not been followed, but an explanation of the legal representative has been given with an explanation why an order could not be followed? For certain activities, especially those related to borrowing, financial reporting, the State Audit System needs to work systematically and long-term in order to establish everything properly. As I have mentioned earlier, adequate improvements are being made in the field of information technical integration of systems and personnel teams and training, so that significant improvements and improvements can be expected in this and especially in the coming years. This finding also confirms the findings of the State Audit under which it was accepted unconditionally by 17 users of the State Budget's resources while in 2003 it was 7. In the end, I just want to say that I suggest that the State Audit Office report be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55585	Thank you. The Honorable Representative of the Shima Rifle.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55586	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, here's my brief comment on these reports. I'll try chronologically towards carriers and phenomena, of course. First the depression to the harm of its own time. My colleague Zgrebec said the Board of Supervisors didn't meet for a year and a half. Correction of the quote isn't five and a half years. As far as the audit findings are concerned, he points out that this situation on measures taken and activities indicates that all the measures taken have produced results, that they have corrected many of the irregularities seen back then in the audit report for the previous years, and that they have also been the introduction of this year and that in the 2004 revision they have also improved these measures. In which areas have occurred before, there have been gaps and what has been characteristic of these findings and measures taken too wide and too long, and very short only a comment on some of them. We can only see from the Government's National Audit Order to take certain measures that were adopted last year by nine regulations, and what records are yet to indicate without these 9 regulations and behaviors are too high to comment at all. The adoption of these nine regulations also significantly improved the situation in this next revision in 2004. Also, three regulations are in the works and it will soon be brought in. Usually, the most frequent revision is given observations on accounting operations, which is a question of all the records that occur in this context. The above mentioned and removed weaknesses observed in the report were revised in 2003. There are about 7, 8, how many, but it is particularly warning about the poor record of guarantees, liabilities, debt conditions, etc., which gave significant improvements in this but also in 2004 which we will also see briefly. The financial reports were realistic then, and the same problem today is that these reports are somewhat adjusted to the IMF in view of the requirements we have to them. So I don't see a particular problem either then or now. In the balance sheet we already see I say progress for 2004, but also order, but also in showing guarantees and obligations that were in some way out of control, beyond that guarantee. In exchanges too, which also indicates a improvement this year. More realistic planning, this is a problem that occurs very often, and it is particularly problematic in local self-government, but also in state bodies and services. But it seems to me, at least my assessment of this planning that often is a matter of planning and occurrences that I cannot predict over the years, and that, in fact, given the accounting level and the method of monitoring, often it is not really detailed that I can follow them. This is a condition before, but now and for a future time until it's founded until the end of the State Treasury. I personally believe that this phenomenon will continue to be current. So I'm neither defending nor attacking earlier periods, but I really think that's the basic problem with the Treasury. Then it's easier and it's planned and controlled when we have insight into the resources the state has. In the case of income, here is the problem of even recording and, and I personally think there are real problems in recording state-owned assets, and then everything that comes out or comes out of them. Only now is the first more serious and extensive attempt to record all assets actually under way and I hope when it is finally established that the basis of such and databases will be easier to manage this property. Which means that such assets could not be coordinated, or more realistically managed so far. When harmonising expenditure in the pension and health systems we heard earlier and there was no existence, especially the problem of control and records of outstanding pensions and the part of the return of property in some way the absence of then controls after it appears. And in the end and now it is and that part is removed. The Church's debt doesn't matter how it came to be. It is only important that the debt is finally accepted, to confirm that the government paid off in 2004 and that it also expects an agreement on the earlier debt that remains, which cannot be settled. So it doesn't matter now in the end how that debt came to be. The fact is that measures have finally been taken here and that this problem is finally resolved according to the Holy See. Also, with the current reserve there was that and will be in the future. Unscheduled expenses, so running in the end is for that. But it would be good, and it is in the process and prescribed how much it can be and how it is available, and the Law on the implementation of the state budget is prescribed, therefore in the frameworks that, and the purposes for which it is spent, I think it is not particularly problematic and there is no unintended spending. In public debt, I've said it briefly. Public debt problem, public debt records, then public debt control and management. In fact, all the philosophy of finance, public finances seem to me personally to be particularly effective in managing public debt. And that's the fact that when we just set up a complete system that we're going to be much more effective at this. In many records earlier that were in the rebalancing process and we remember the HAC rebalancing that we had at the time, so finally here, I will of course not be presenting the data and amounts, but the fact that there is also a whole series of measures and that mainly do not appear and occur anymore. With HABOR, we also remember that part of the funds that were used for lending, i.e. to finance reconstruction. And here's the end for now for 2004 there are no more such phenomena. So these corrections of these so far illogicalities also produce results in these areas. I have already said in the guarantees and in the bonds that the register is established and that it also provides improvements in this sector and that, of course, in the coming years, it will be even more favourable. With the Ministry of Finance at Customs, she's the problem that we didn't know about the property, especially the property that was at the border crossings. Finally, it's coming together. Therefore, I hold that no one had any intention, nor hid anything at customs crossings, but the simple system of records and the rest was what it was. Therefore, today it is also giving results and finally it is like those control stamps that are finally set up to make that part finally more effective. Once again at the Ministry of Defence and before and now I personally think that part of the procurement should not be a public, or official secret, and especially when it comes to food, clothing, clothing, other things that are used, which is standard, I believe that this part should really be opened, but also, indeed, to conduct a public competition, and not in advance that it can be doubted if anything is going on in a different way. At the Ministry of Public Works, tourism and others, we used to discuss many of the problems that occurred especially in recording debt and other issues. It's finally settled. So I also hold on to it that it can be handled more effectively. In the concessions, we saw that we didn't even have a register, we had no insight into concessions, so of course finally forming and that gives better results. Through, code, just a moment, at HZZO I want to point out exactly that problem. I want to believe that if the problem of 3 billion and 200 3 and 100 and something is falling off the HZZ, it is now doubtful whether by the Law on the supply of medicines or also consent should be given by the Government or by that procurement commission, then the form would be satisfied. But, you, here in my opinion, it's important to meet the goal, not form. And the goal is to win and contract potentially more favourable purchases of these funds. What I want to point out at the end, also when it comes to health care being removed here says in the report that the observed losses have been removed from earlier and that it is forbidden to give hospitals, hospitals or facilities and others to mortgage on borrowing. I'm asking questions here, for example. County. Countys to give all their budgets, and also property mostly do not have, they have nothing to guarantee for hospitals that are approximately equivalent to Zadar Hospital and Zadar County. About a hospital has about six times the cost of the Zadar County budget. Therefore, both the audit and anyone can conclude that the County should be guaranteed, it is actually powerless. The problem remains with the same status as health insurance in the country, which is with the clinical hospitals guaranteed by the state and the budget, and then with these hospitals for which the counties need to guarantee that they do not have the means to do so. Therefore, my view is that many of these things that have been observed significantly in the revision so far in irregularities have been repeated, gradually aligned and that we can finally say that the revision satisfies its functions. What's doubtful is that in other state services, it's a problem of money, it's a problem of stimulation, it's a problem of space, it's a problem of staff that will remain on, but it's not an alibi for the revision not to continue. And in the list of state assets when it comes to, once again, the list of state assets, then the system we had at several levels, I believe, finally, needs a single register to answer that question, so we will be able to manage public debt much easier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55587	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55588	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I was actually surprised by this statement from my colleague Prtvenjak, not that he hadn't met for a year and a half but five years by the Supervisory Board, and he's the chairman of the Privatisation Fund, you know. The mandate of the previous meeting of the Supervisory Board expired on 22.12.2003, when a new assembly of parliaments was established because, most of all, parliamentary representatives were members of the Supervisory Board. The fact is that the last meeting of the Supervisory Board had problems because some colleagues did not respond and 5-6 times called the Supervisory Board had no quorum. However, this is not the case in this term. We were not until the 9th month to establish ourselves and chose a fellow Wrestleman as chairman of the Supervisory Board and no longer met at all. Not that we didn't meet, he wasn't invited. Meanwhile, there were two plans, two annual accounts, i.e. the implementation of the income and expenditure plan, two audit reports were. All that the Supervisory Board was supposed to discuss, so it didn't encourage you to call a board meeting when it was a questionable sale of the Liburnia Hotel. This is not the head of the fund's responsibility, because it is not even the authority to convene the Supervisory Board but the chairman of the Supervisory Board.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55589	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55590	Yes, thank you very much. Well, it's very short. I actually thought it was more important to look back at this second part of this report than this part. The answer to the replica is this, for accurate information. On several occasions, I personally asked the Board of Supervisors for official reports based on a meeting of the Supervisory Board. How the Supervisory Board only has two powers, two functions, which is controlling legality which I'm not sure I'm going to control as an economist, but well, that's another, financial plan. Only by the arrival of Mr Ivezic at the end of the year or in the fall in that place did I get the first written report at the end of the year, but which unfortunately came after already in the procedure of the adoption of the state budget and the financial plan of this fund was the adoption of the Parliament. So it was too late in that part, and that's what I'm finally saying publicly, the first information of any me, even though I've personally asked for that information on several occasions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55591	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative of the Mato Church. He's not in the hall. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. He's not in the hall. Dear Representative Turic. He's not in the hall. And the word has an esteemed representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55592	You surprise me a little bit, I was counting on us to work until 7:00, but we're going to adapt to market requirements, and then we're going to be ready to respond to these challenges that are as difficult as the topic that's being discussed here today, given that we're covering almost 3-4 of which are all as current. I will try to refer in a simpler way of expressing myself and to considering these relationships which in nature come down to whether the government spends taxpayers' money rationally or does not seem rational. Whether money belonging to taxpayers is spent in accordance with the law or comes to certain deviations of deviations and how society, system institutions should carry and fight and edit and relations that make them look different for each financial year, that they look better, and that at the same time they can learn and improve all of the activities arising from each of the ministries, either from the individual sources from which these funds apply, but also from other arrangements of the overall system. It is not a non-essential category of what I mentioned at the outset, the markets and the relations to which the budgetary resources are positioned. Budgetary assets, if treated in a way that is not in line with market ethics, which is not in line with the relations that exist in a market-based economy, cause problems not only at the level of unplanned spending in items that are not intended for this, not because the ministry has acted beyond the competition rules, so it decided to assign someone a job and it should not have happened but even greater deviation. They're actually content, that's not what we're talking about here, that's the problem. And that's that it's reversed the game, that there's just been a disturbance in one space that has to meet the rules of the game, in which it has to be known how much it has the right to play with which ball and against which players. When you disrupt these concerns in the system of how you deal with budget money then there are these deviations of the total lagging of one country, then there are problems in relations with citizens, then there is corruption, then there is all those unwanted consequences that result in you being ranked at this or that place in terms of attractiveness to foreign capital, in terms of the possibility of a liberal competition, in terms of acting within a regulated system, etc. I believe that every year, in that sense, we still achieve better and better results, that society adapts. That State Audit, absolutely what almost everyone has said in terms of how it presents the reports and the way in which it audits, the quality of doing these audits, and the very contained reports themselves, is going up. That the whole system adapts to the needs of society on one side, but also to the demands of an organised economy as Croatia should, of course, be. Of course, what we may sometimes be behind but simply not showing enough interest is exactly, not even about the State Audit, not about the State's Attorney's Office. It's just about us. Namely, when the Croatian Parliament gives itself the task of accepting certain conclusions and when it adopts those conclusions, it is almost ugly, rude, but also unacceptable for this House that these conclusions are not referred to them in the next debate and that the helmet is simply for those entities we are discussing today, both for the State Audit and for the State Attorney's Office. Therefore, when we draw a conclusion to ourselves, it is essential that we first insist that that conclusion be discussed. That conclusion, HDZ concluded on the 2003 report. 6 and 7, these are the conclusions on the measures taken, on what to do when it is established that there have been certain disorders in the system. The State Attorney's Office has recorded certain irregularities, indicating which entities are concerned by these irregularities. But unfortunately in this report, at least as far as I'm concerned, I say, Parliament, not the State Audit. I think it is important that the Croatian Parliament, as a body that oversees the entire processes, be involved differently, and not only as a statistician who simply observes and with a score of 1 on 5, assesses the State Report, whether it is as beautifully plasticised as the report on the work of the State Audit Office in 2005 or usually, but it must simply be a participant that at least in their conclusions that were given among other things by the HSS Club, and they were accepted. To simply face these conclusions and try to show them exactly that the debate on the subject had a purpose a year ago and that the goal had been achieved. That through the conclusions, we fixed what was wrong. And of course, we can't be grateful about everything being okay right now. Of course, the State Property Management Office and the Croatian Privatisation Fund are no good nor is it an apology from his colleagues that he has not called the Supervisory Board because he has not called before. I think that, if it were the same situation, and it wouldn't be an excuse. But it is logical and reasonable to say, we should do this because certain actions that took place within the Croatian Privatisation Fund simply deserve the assessment of the supervisory board, the largest body that the state administration has. Therefore, the Board of Supervisors would then report on this, and we have cases that need to be discussed in particular. The position of Sunny Hvar is not clear to the end. There's never been a final court case. A whole series of privatisations that followed, and where the Croatian Privatisation Fund from "Liburnia" had something to say further, and the Supervisory Board had nothing to discuss we were simply not in a position to discuss. Furthermore, the State Office for Property under that property that does not constitute an interest in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so that individual ministries, primarily the Ministry of Defence, have made it available to individual units of local self-government. We have information that they are being decided very discreetly. Completely discreet, depending on who's in power. If the local self-government unit is a suitable party, then the property is very soon available to the local self-government unit. If it's not, then it's almost never. Therefore, these are all topics that are not necessary and must not have political omens, which must not and should not be interpreted politically because they represent a problem for citizens. Citizens are ahead of politics, citizens are not interested in such political perception, and they are necessarily suffering and they are actually being punished for something that does not belong to them. Therefore, when discussing this very important topic, it should then be discussed how it reflects on citizens on one side, how it reflects on the competition, how it reflects on the role of this Parliament. I fear that the role of this Parliament when discussing such important issues is very often, very often, and this is also the case in this debate, brought to an intolerable level. And that unbearable level is just a mirror, so here, after 19 we do, we agreed until 19. We're discussing, counterpart Luka said, saying on behalf of the HSS Club that there was once a buzz about this, that there was simply one broader general interest. Now, despite a more quality shift in the way we've been reported, we've been brought in to discuss this only on the way, to throw out every single one of our notes at these very important 3, 4 points. We've united them all into one so that it's hard to refer now to the State's Attorney's Office, the State Audit Office, the audits carried out and all together. There is simply no time to specify in any way certain problems stemming from this abundant material for such a brief discussion. So...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55593	Thank you. It's time.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55594	I just want to conclude that in my own way, I am protesting this kind of way that we are doing this very important point.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55595	Thank you. Well, at 7 o'clock, there were three MPs who were not in the hall, who lost the right to debate on this agenda point. Well, here, I'm concluding a debate on this agenda item for today. The sequel is tomorrow at 9:30 p.m. and the word has a distinguished representative Josip Djakic. At 9:30. ... Then let's end up with a replica, or a reply to the replica. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55596	Well, I've overlooked earlier for the speed and shortness of time one thought important to me, at least by my assessment, so I'm using the Institute of Replica of my colleague Markov, not for his statements and opinions. Namely, I am personally thinking, and something from my experience through the county, and even before, and even now these days I hear different stories in my opinion, I would not say that the biggest problem is, but also legislative, and then control and should pay more attention to the various election committees of any performer, i.e. the implementation of competitions and everything else, regardless of which government, which Minister, anyone. Namely, in Dalmatia, they say it's not important to know how to play, but to count, and often those people who are in these commissions work and implement, and that the government actually knows or doesn't... such controls and, therefore, it seems to me that this work and this segment should be particularly apostrophyd and particularly controlled, so if necessary, and it seems to me that it is up to me to work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, that was the meaning of the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55597	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55598	Thank you very much. Well, here's a colleague of the Wrestler's confirmed what I said. We are here for the content of the problem which has been proven and proved and precisely I have appealed in the same way that Shime now you have said that it cannot be debated here whether the covers are beautiful or ugly, whether the report is better motivated or not, but simply that we should demonstrate our responsibility here because it is primarily imposed. In this regard, I have also apostrophe of the Privatisation Fund and that annual report that we must submit as the Supervisory Board in this Parliament to discuss. What is our basic task? That's what I was talking about not wanting in any way or in any way to politicize with that important subject, but simply that it's our job and that no matter who's in power today, who's tomorrow that we all have to act like one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55599	Thank you. So, the sequel is tomorrow at 9:30, the distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55600	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are continuing the session and the debate on the reports of the State Audit Office and other parts of this agenda item. Dear Representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55601	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mrs. Auditor, State Attorney, Associates! I also welcome you to the report on the revision of the state budget as well as the institutions and ministries and local self-governments and institutions owned by local self-government and regional self-government, I will look first and foremost at the revision of the state budget in which we can see for the first time the use of a new formula for the revision and presentation of the deficit in the state budget or non-intentional use of the state budget, which is visible from 3.4 billion presented as funds spent in the Ministry of the Interior, Defence and the Ministry of Health without being used and covered by the Public Procurement Act, i.e. And whether or not they are redistributed in an unlawful way. There were no such formulations in the previous reports. It has always been seen and used what other legal acts are meant to be obtained. And I would not say this because, compared to health institutions such as Virovitica General Hospital, it is also evident that the assessment is unconditional, that there were no errors while the supervision of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and the personal head of finance in that hospital made up a different report showing that a number of irregularities and spending of funds were made. So this double... in the audit process, both at national and local level, they say that it is likely that someone likes and describes certain spells. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would first of all refer to the audit report on the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, and then I will return to these factually described things and we can say that the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity is also an unconditional assessment that is caused by the removal of a series of irregularities from the previous time, i.e. 2003, and we'll start in a row. In the findings given to the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, a list of financial assets was provided to the Central Office for the Management of State Property in order to register the data. Obligations recorded under the assistance protocol on the housing care of the victims of the Homeland War in Bosnia and Herzegovina have been assessed as unfounded and registered from business books. In cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, the State Attorney's Office, the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, the Department for Expatriates, Returnees and Refugees, and with three hotels an extrajudicial agreement has been reached to settle the costs of accommodation... the person in the hotels. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The procedures for the supply of goods and services and the admission of works have been implemented in accordance with the provisions of the Public Procurement Act and the Regulation on the procedure for the supply of goods, works and services of small value. The Committee for Internal Control and Control of Target Expension was established to monitor and monitor the implementation of the professional training and employment programmes of Croatian defenders and children of the deceased, deceased, imprisoned and missing defenders. Rules on the exercise of the right to free textbooks for exceptional students at higher schools have been harmonised. The data on paid disability and family pensions are consistent with the records of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. The funds of Croatian defenders' associations from the Homeland War were established in accordance with selected programmes. The funds in the budget have been provided for the maintenance of rental apartments. Reserve obligations have been met for the maintenance of joint parts of residential facilities in which the apartments are rented. The planned revenues from the state budget for 2004 were reached by 99.5%. Despite the strong calls in the media, public calls by the former Croatian Defence Minister can be said that the expenditures of business, business planning, income and expenditure are realistically planned and are thus spent and therefore 99.8% of the planned funds are dedicated and spent on the benefit and well-being of the family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity and programme and activities of the ministry as a whole. It is clear from all accounts that during 2004 the gaps in the 2003 report were corrected and that the report found that the ministry was operating in accordance with the legal rules and with all the other rules and acts adopted. So we can say that, with these corrected mistakes from 2003, the Ministry of the Family, the defender acted and worked according to all the rules and all the legal provisions. Therefore, and to praise such work, and I think this report clearly disproves any call that has been made to the public so far and also in this House at the expense of the Ministry and the Minister of Croatian Defence. Next, to go back to what's sticking my eyes out of my local environment and that's Virovitica General Hospital. In its procurement of works and services, the General Hospital Virovitica spent a considerable number. A significant number of millions of budgets, 4 million and 965,000 kuna, which have increased their expenditure deficit with other funds and account for 11.5 million shortfalls in revenue over expenditure. At the same time, the audit failed to use the ministry's decision, which clearly and unequivocally states that it was forbidden to invest in investment maintenance and construction and did not mention it in its findings of state audit, but without any reference to such actions in its findings it wrote that everything was done in spirit and within the law. Therefore, we will also ask for a specific audit of the spending in 2002, 2003 and the reasons for the lack of funds. revenue over expenditure during this period. It is clear that the deficit at the end of 2003... could be negligible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It also speaks of the fact of financial operations in the period of January, September 2003, when surplus revenues were achieved over expenditures of nearly 5 million kuna. The further increase in expenditures from October to December 2003 invested about 6 million kuna from own funds, and the decision of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance and its director specifically banned it. There's no consent, there's nothing, and in the report of the state audit, it's not covered at all. I therefore propose that I also present this finding by the assistant director of economic financial affairs to be as a road and a guide and to analyse this decision which will also talk about how a review has been carried out at Virovitica General Hospital and how it is described in a biased manner that the assessment is unconditional, that there have been no major failures or failures. I, from this example with small figures and figures, can return to the State budget and also the formulation is that it suits someone and I don't think it will lead to a real, clear and transparent relationship in showing the findings of the audit and a credible display of all the actions in the state ministries with the budget of the Republic of Croatia as well as with the budgets of local units and institutions owned by those units. I therefore think that we should take certain steps because not everything is as great as we heard in our Parliament, in yesterday's debate that everything is ideal, that the audit finding is absolutely satisfactory and thanked for it. I removed the assumptions that offered me this debate. Thank you very much, and I hope you will consider what I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55602	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Željko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55603	Thank you very much. Well, it's incorrect when an opinion is used and in one case to justify it perfectly to work sometimes, and it's called in this case the Ministry of Defense, and at the same time when an opinion is given unconditionally for the General Hospital in Virovitica, by the way, it's one of the few hospitals that have received such an opinion that it is being attacked here and that the hospital, that these are also serious audit charges that it hasn't worked qualityly and even that some things have been ignored. I don't think that's true. The only thing she's trying to justify is that the Director of the General Hospital in Virovitica has been replaced despite what she's done well and that she's one of the few who's received the unconditional opinion of the review. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55604	Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55605	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament is injured by the Rules of Procedure in Article 209. My colleague Pacek, using the correction of the incorrect quote, did not in any segment correct the incorrect assumption, and I think you should have noticed it, but went into an actual debate in which he could use a second, second position, i.e. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55606	He could have, but he didn't. He said it was about correcting an incorrect quote. He listed a certain claim. You're contesting that claim and it's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Joseph Leco. Here you go, Mr. Lecko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55607	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Auditor, State Attorney, Representative of the Government. This is my intention to welcome the representatives of all reports because I would like to say that the scenario, which has been prepared to discuss three reports from three different institutions, is actually a scenario of clouding the responsibility of the Croatian Parliament for public spending money, the state money of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in 2004. The audit has the status of the Constitutional Court, the rank of the Constitutional Court, that is, those are the eyes of the Croatian Parliament when discussing the spending of public money. And we at the Croatian Parliament to cloud the responsibility of the Croatian Parliament, which is set out in Article 80. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia to the State Assembly, or the Croatian Parliament, shall adopt a state budget, and in paragraph 2 of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we have carried out a general debate on the State Attorney's report on the report of the Government of Croatia and the State Audit report. And it's just that every report deserves a special debate. Special report on State audit. Let's go back to, to the essence of the debate. I would like to say immediately that this mandate has changed and liberalised, so a more free regime of public procurement has been established. They have been moved or increased restrictions on direct procurement. At the same time, at the same time as such a freer law, the State Auditor, or State Audit, determines that 3 billion and 400 million were spent, spent, purchased goods and services outside the Act. And the Croatian Parliament will say forward it to the state's attorney and let him see what's criminal about it? It's colleagues and colleagues obstructing the work of a state attorney because there's no qualification for any crime. It's an alibi for the irresponsibility of this Parliament for spent public money. It's gentlemen about the money of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It's 100 billion kuna spent, and we're going to do it in a group discussion to solve the "an block" to the state's attorney. The second thing that should also be indicated is that it's the point of our control. The Croatian government has changed its purpose and spent 3 billion and 200 million kunas in addition to the set schedules in the budget without us deciding. Such irresponsibility is not given to us by the Constitution, nor is it given to us by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. If we want to close our eyes, it's another pair of shoes, another pair of shoes. And one more thing, this House isn't just about spending public money. This Parliament shall be responsible for the financial authority, for the financial situation in the country as a whole. What's that? There could really be a lot to say in this debate and a lot to point out. Let us remember, and this is our obligation to remember what the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, the current Government, spoke in pre-election '99. The year, that is, in 2003 and what the finance minister said in 2003. They both said publicly, "We'll take back state finances.". I'm stressing on this word again. But for the sake of the Croatian public, I want to say it's '99. the year of payment, the mutual payment in legal traffic passed 12 and 14 months of delays, respectively. In the period from 2000 to 2003, all of this will be confirmed in Croatia as regards legal traffic, i.e. the payment of each other was reduced to real terms from 30 to 45 days. If we were to add to that the way it was, what were the interest rates in '99? and then in 2003, and what commissions were and who brokered everything to charge for the job, then we could really talk about taking care of the finances, but again in '99. A year. Indifference. Is it necessary to skip the report on the liquidity situation of the Croatian economy? You don't have to, you don't have to. Well here we heard that paying in health care, in total speaking to pharmacies, suppliers, etc. It's already extended to 300 days. It is also a topic to be discussed by the Croatian Parliament. Is the state the biggest debtor? But he must be the biggest employer. He spends 100 billion, 100 billion kuna, and that money is spent by Croatian citizens. How's the gray economy?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55608	And what's this theme?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55609	Budget. Budget and state finances, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55610	It's not a gray economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55611	Yes, yes, and corruption is the subject of this budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55612	And then what do we do? We want to talk about the woods and the mountains and the land and everything? ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55613	Yes, you can. If it brings better to the citizens, we can. If that's what the citizens are interested in and about...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55614	If the citizens are interested, but when citizens are interested, then a particular movie is being played. Not when another movie is broadcast in a particular film.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55615	Mr. President, I would like to add that on the international scale of corrupt countries, Croatia has indeed jumped 20 places.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55616	And that Janica Kostelic won first place.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55617	One more thing. In this analysis, it is said that classical corruption in Croatia is at work and that corruption of the state's purchase, which means approximately this way to you, Mr. President. That laws are passed in the interest of individuals, groups of individuals, companies or groups of companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55618	Comrade Leko, be nice. I'm asking you to stick to the subject. So let's not spread the subject in every way possible. We have a very limited subject. I am obliged to stick to the Rules of Procedure in the context of the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55619	Mr. President, it is a spending of 6 billion and 6 hundred million without the knowledge of the Croatian Parliament and past the law. If you think that's not the problem then...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55620	I don't think that's a problem, but I think you're sticking to the subject. Now you're here on the subject. You've come from another topic. I ask you, as chairman, that whoever is chairman, the word be given to him who gets it. That the chairman should not be interrupted because he cannot and should not be interrupted. Please be correct and stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55621	Mr. President, you've put four topics on the agenda. Out of that four topic, tell me which one I jumped out of, and I will honor your objection. Since you've clouded the subject by putting 4 reports on the agenda in one debate...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55622	I warn you, I did not cloud anything, I suggested the Croatian Assembly unification of these four points. And the Croatian Parliament, 3 points, and the Croatian Parliament accepted it and do not impute any blurry. You voted against, most voted to unite this agenda point, and then why are you going to impute me that I was blurring something?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55623	I'm not imputing anything to you, I'm just saying... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55624	What do you mean, it's gone?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55625	And that's what I'm giving my grade on. That's what the citizens who chose me to do. I don't have any intention of having sex with you. I want to address the citizens, and you have your powers, so use those powers.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55626	Well, you can't impute me to blur someone out. How? On what basis are you going to impute me?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55627	My assessment is that it's in the debate to put four reports...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55628	Thank you very much. Don't be a colleague, Leko, please. That's...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55629	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55630	Let's stick to correctness. Why are you going to impute me if I have proposed, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the unification of these points of the agenda? The council voted. And now you're telling me that I'm the one who's imploding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55631	Mr. President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55632	So please don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55633	Just keep it up, so...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55634	Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55635	Your Honor, Mr. President. Here, Mr. Leco pointed out the government's irresponsibility for redistribution, which is not true. It's actually a responsibility. In fact, the change in the methodology of planning that was adopted in 2002 has become necessary because of a detailed and inflexible approach to planning. That is, because of the enforcement controls that have been set at the level of the project activities programme. It should be said immediately that 45 redistribution decisions were made in 2003 and 33 decisions in 2004. Just because a detailed and inflexible approach to planning is required. That's your call. But the opinion of the state audit should also be highlighted, which says expenditure related to redistribution, that expenditure and expenditure on budgets that are less significant should be planned and presented to the Croatian Assembly and published by account groups. For example, as expenses for employees, material expenditures, etc. without the analytical work done which would be...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55636	Thank you very much. Replications. Dear Representative Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55637	My colleague, Leko, you've come from two settings. First, if unifying the debate meant clouding the views, you also accused the President of the Parliament of doing so, namely that the Parliament could not transfer the decision there that the government was redistributing without the Parliament's decision of a certain item. However, both of them are not entirely true to you. It's true that we voted here in the parliamentary majority, to discuss it like this, and in some ways we had little and that debate, and that's how we tempered it to say so. And on the other hand, it's also not true that we didn't transfer that power to the government. We have given the Government the right to amend the Budget Law despite the fact that the Constitution does not allow it to redistribute and almost the entire budget. There is a number of material costs, costs for employees, etc. Almost 90% of the total budget and the government used such an opportunity that the Parliament gave despite the fact that the Parliament should not and could not make such a decision, that is, such a law. At that time, we also warned about amending the Law on Budget Implementation, as well as budget implementation. We referred to Article 80. The constitution that says the Croatian Parliament is making a state budget, not a government, is only proposing it. We also referred to the Budget Law, which said in its Article 4(9), that the Parliament is making a budget for the financial year, and that the amendments and the additional budgets are also being implemented in accordance with the budget procedure. I am glad that this has also been true in the debate on amendments to the 2004 budget law and budget implementation for 2004 and that it has also confirmed the state audit.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55638	Replication response, distinguished representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55639	Dear colleagues, as far as the majority and the minority are concerned, of course I accept the democratic principle that most people decide, but that decision does not reduce the right of the individual and the minority to think and to say what they think, even right. Secondly, I agree with your assessment that the Government and us here in the Croatian Parliament were warned when the budget was adopted that it could not change on its own terms without the introduction and decision of the Assembly of Budgetary Items. I agree more with that which, and I especially appreciate the state's review, she said so. In such a situation, my assessment is that the spending of state money of 5 billion and 600 million kuna without the consent of the Croatian Parliament remains in force.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55640	Another replica, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55641	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Leco, you're saying that in the government they're saying by taking over their mandate that they're going to take care of state finances and then you're saying it's not taken care of, and I'm going to tell you how these finances are taken care of. From the audit, from the findings and opinions. The main books and supporting books do not provide full information to the public debt, and the prescribed financial statements of the budget are drawn up, except for the report on changes and value of volume and assets and liabilities, transactions... the general government's financial report for 2004 is not drawn up. The balance sheet does not contain full data on assets and liabilities. The state of debt at the end of 2004, amounted to 68 billion 376 million, while liabilities were reported in the balance sheet of 52 billion 249 million. The data on the initial and final balance of assets on foreign exchange accounts in the Privredna banka Zagreb do not comply with the balances according to the bank's performances. During 2004, 33 decisions were made on the redistribution of the budget of 3 billion and 260 thousand, which has not been notified by the Parliament, which we have also spoken about and submitted to the competent authority. The current budget stock has resulted in regular expenditures from budgetary users which cannot be considered as urgent and unscheduled expenditure. The amount of the loan shall not be deducted within the agreed deadlines and the fees shall be paid for the unused part of the loan or the part of the loan shall be cancelled. Here you can see the inventiveness and creation of this government and its programme of movement of Croatia. That's how you handle state finances, just a'la HDZ, which you and I certainly won't be able to understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55642	Replication response, distinguished representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55643	Dear colleagues, you're absolutely right, and if he'd let me say so, let me say so. If the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament had allowed me to say what I had prepared, I would also have provided information that shows what it is and how Croatian state finances are arranged and what the state of financing in society is in general. Since I haven't had that chance and I've been in some way obstructed, I can only thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55644	You weren't obstructed, you were supposed to stick to the subject. When you left the topic, I asked you to stick to the subject, and there was no obstruction. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55645	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You see, colleague Leko, you, with full right, are quite accurate and logically talking about corruption in the context of the budget review, because in the light of this audit, the source of corruption is rooted. Because be careful, if it is said that the Ministry of Finance has several foreign foreign foreign foreign foreign foreign foreign foreign foreign exchange accounts, which means that there is hidden money, and hidden money, the non-transparent behaviour of the state is the source of the entry into corruption, and that is why you are quite logically saying it. When you know how many councilmen have been bought, so clearly you have to have some secret money hidden somewhere, so you won't be able to tell Šimi Krasic what that money is or the citizens. So you have to pay for all those councilmen you bought. It's got to be from a secret account, it can't be shown in the budget...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55646	And that's a replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55647	And that's why you rightly...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55648	That's the answer to the quote?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55649	Yeah, let me talk. And that's why you rightly... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55650	Mr. Stazic, please stop. You won't be running the session.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55651	Take her away, but according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55652	You'll get a warning...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55653	And you fellow Leko rightly warn... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55654	I give you a warning. ... Mr. Stazic, I give you a warning. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55655	But you... Comrade Leko, that you president... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55656	I take your word, Mr. Stazic. I take your word, Mr. Stazic. Do you understand? ... Because you're violating the Rules of Procedure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You can't speak unless the president gives you his word. You can't continue, you can't interrupt the president.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55657	And why won't he give me his word?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55658	That's what I warned you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55659	And why do I have the President's word?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55660	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55661	Why doesn't the president give me a word when I answer...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55662	Please sit down. I took your word. I took your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55663	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55664	Replication response, distinguished representative Joseph Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55665	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. I really wanted to set an example for my claim of corruption, just one small one. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 30000. Can you be well-intentioned, you can give your faith to the ministries and the government, but I have to trust the state audit that is authorized to determine this if it finds. And I read from this that it was intentional, that it was intended to be recorded in a twilight way, not individually. And you must conclude from what you will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55666	Secretary of State Ante Zigman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55667	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Well, here I go. I'll start with this last one. Says the finance ministry has multiple foreign foreign foreign foreign foreign foreign exchange accounts, records are set up on all foreign exchange accounts. Therefore, records were established in all foreign exchange accounts during 2004 and there are no hidden states or amounts under those accounts. When it comes to liquidity, it is entirely incorrect, therefore, that there is any story of inequitableness since there are billions of kunas on bank accounts daily with free money. This can be checked in the Croatian National Bank without any problems every day. Health care, therefore, as regards the payment of health and debt, that part will be arranged during 2006. I would only point out, therefore, that the deficit has been reduced, that the financial statements have been consolidated and that indeed in any segment you can't say that there are any hidden money and hidden accounts. Everything is transparent, the State Audit is all available at the Ministry of Finance. I'm not going to go in here now and spend my time, but the 27 corrections are just as far as the records were made which were crucial and notes, were like a note and asked for their correction during the review in 2003. And finally, as far as redistribution is concerned, here are the gentlemen from the State Audit, so the Office has expressed its opinion that materially less significant expenditure should be planned and carried out by account groups without detailed consideration by purpose. In this segment, then, it would certainly be easier for the Ministry of Finance to follow those items in this respected House. But further, as far as redistribution is concerned, it should be said that the State Audit has not found any irregularities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55668	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect alleged, respected representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55669	They are all incorrectly listed by the Secretary of State as regards foreign foreign foreign exchange accounts. In fact, the revision very unequivocally states, quotes: "no foreign foreign foreign foreign foreign currency funds are recorded in the accounts". The fact that she registered that there's a foreign exchange account, and we don't know what's on it, how much money is on it, how money is available is just as much as we even know that the foreign exchange account exists, since the fact of existence itself doesn't say anything about that business. Secondly, the incorrect allegations are linked to the deficit. So they're questionable. So the consolidated report wasn't even made, and we don't really know what our deficit is.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55670	Dear Representative Josip Leko, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55671	Your Honor, the Honorable Secretary of State has confirmed my allegations of payment in health. Here's how. He incorrectly stated, therefore, that paying in health care is fine because he said that healthcare payments would be arranged in 2006, and we are discussing the 2004 report. That's not the kind of debate we're gonna get to the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55672	And respected representative Milanka Opačić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55673	I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that the State Review, when it comes to redistributing the items, that the State Audit has found nothing controversial. On the contrary, the State Audit warned that these changes to the item in the budget should bring about changes and additions to the State budget in the Croatian Parliament. Secondly, that a deadline should be set for the Government of the Croatian Parliament to show about all the amended items. Finally, the third found that many items do not fall into emergency items at all and are not foreseen and that they should have been foreseen in the state budget and this shows that you actually brought in some items in the state budget and unreally planned the budget. And that you have obviously hidden the financing of one part of the matter in some way and that it is not presented to the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55674	Dear representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55675	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mrs. Chief State Auditor, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, Mr. State's Attorney. One of the most important roles of Parliament everywhere in the world and in Croatia is with the adoption of the state budget and the control of budget money. And I think that there was a colleague in the debate right before me very well defined that the revision in some way represented our eyes, increased Parliament. Because when we discussed, for example, the State Budget Report, then in a mass of things, we were challenged as political manipulations, like those who can't read these documents. And in fact, the State Audit Report confirms all of our allegations at the time. When we look at this debate, especially the part of yesterday that was a little lazy and persistent in the afternoon, without direct transmission, it seems to me that very little was said content, quality in the sense of introducing improvements in the management of state finances, that everything was a little lost in some cacophony who did, why he did or didn't, and that we actually lost the essence and meaning in some way. And I think this State Audit report sends very clear messages. It is indisputable that the year-to-year revision determines more or less, mainly the same irregularities. It is indisputable that although easier than we might want, there are fewer and fewer irregularities from year to year, even though the assessment was first missed in the report of this audit. Among other things, the audit findings are being disclosed, so I'm going to say, maybe political manipulation is like. the one which was almost hystericalally lasted for the first year or first year and a half of the term of office around the deficits when I recall being thrown wood and stones at the former government about the method of recording, and the revision precisely in this report found that, but absolutely nothing had changed in the way of keeping the budget accounts i.e. that this is still done by the same methodology and not by the one that should. One year it was a deficit, the second year this government justice simply by the technical inability of the information system and thus it turns out that all of this was actually a pretty good political manipulation. But I also hope the only purpose of this debate is the report of this audit if the government and the entire state administration are not only hearing but also actively applying very clear messages from the State Audit findings. For example, the audit very unequivocally tells the Government that a consolidated financial report must be drawn up... The state to know what our deficit is, to know the real state of finance and to end political manipulations about it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Secondly, the revision very unequivocally states that the balance sheet must contain complete data on the state's assets and liabilities in order to know what we have and how much we actually owe. We don't have that day today because the government didn't do it. Secondly, the audit is very unequivocally telling, and I particularly appreciate that part because, as representatives, we have been accused by the government that the Government cannot decide on redistributions in the budget without informing the Parliament. We were last year around the 2004 budget, they were 33 times changed budget beyond the Parliament's knowledge, although the state budget and responsibility for the adoption of the state budget were at the Parliament. The audit also tells the Government that when planning and proposing the state budget of the items in the budget must be realistically planned, and not how so far one case specifically surrounding the scholarships where the audit found that insufficient funds were planned in the state budget, that non-purpose funds were paid when I personally and some colleagues here submitted amendments saying that it would not be enough for you, here we were declared in a way that you know, that would be enough. Today's review finds that we were right then and that the government should accept amendments to the budget, which is otherwise what happens to this government is the case that permanent redistributions of the budget are just being re-scheduled. At the end of the year, everything looks great, and it doesn't really comply with the regulations. Secondly, the audit found that the government spent its resources on regular funding, and not on those unforeseen and unpredictable expenditures, I think that Col. Stazic mentioned well, for example, the exhibition "expo" and some other things that we knew very well that they would be, that they were neither unpredictable nor unpredictable. The audit also tells the Government that when it asks for loans for some programmes to be prepared for these programmes and spend, not that we get loans and then we pay interest, etc. There is a special case at the Ministry of Education, Science and Culture where loans for material costs were withdrawn at universities when we asked the minister's parliamentary question in mid-2004 why it did not move. We got the answer. It's gonna be great. It's all taken care of. It is simply not true, it is now shown that the government then deceived MPs, i.e. Minister Primorac, and that we were actually right when we claimed that the credit programme we are receiving had no because the funds were not withdrawn, or spent. There are still a lot of messages from very clear and unequivocal audits to the government and the state administration, I have not mentioned public procurement or guarantees, but I think that these messages are more than clear, so I'm kind of sorry that only now Minister Schuker joined this debate for not listening to everything the MPs and the audits have been saying because this debate and the whole review makes sense if something really changes in the work and so we can really show, i.e. The government shows what it stands for, and that is transparency, accountability and ultimately ability, because for now, according to the audit findings for such a way of working, we find no argument. And I think that colleagues and colleagues must understand this debate and interpret these findings in such a way that if we don't force the government in some way to bring a literal action plan to tell us what it will do, within whatever time limit to correct irregularities, whatever those deadlines are, let them say we will establish a list of state assets by 2015 but let us know some dynamics that would in some way guarantee that things from the revision will be improved, only then will the revision and this debate make any greater sense. Without these concrete plans, we will find more or less of the same irregularities year by year, sometimes politically arguing about it, but this will not be an effect. All these other discussions in some way of accusing the government, it has very comical arguments of the Government on some findings of audit, hiding and even clouding this debate by burying everything, by uniting all points in one debate, I don't think they do good to the citizens or the state, do good to Parliament because in some way they humiliate Parliament in its most important role as the control of public finances, and I think that the matter, however paradoxically, is very simple, should be done by law and punish all those who do not act by law and were even ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55676	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55677	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MP Lugaric said the government was not realistically planning, speaking of redistributions. I don't think that's true, that it's realistic planning if it's done that redistribution takes into account 3.2% of the total planned funds. In particular, as an economist, I can say that 3.2% of real planning is when plans are done on the basis of such a methodology... and which was made in 2002, which is poor, inadequate, inflexible, also suggests that, according to the 2003 State Audit, 45 decisions were taken to redistribute 3 billion 109 million 141 thousand 795 kuna. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55678	Dear representative Anna Lovrin. She's gone. He's losing his word. The Honorable Representative, Zvonimir Sabati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55679	Mr. President, Ministers with Associates, Mrs. Krasic, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, in this kind of discussion sometimes it's hard to be objective, each of us has some kind of... activities, I've been in the representative body as well as in the executive, so I know what audit means, which means daily problems. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As a rule, this depletion, including criticism, always refers to the opposition in relation to the position and always raises questions about who left the greater debt and why it was spent. However, a whole series of predecessors have already pointed out that, from year to year, similar or the same remarks usually appear and that, of course, there are positive shifts from year to year, which is certainly good. But I think we still have a few key issues here that are important when we discuss the findings of the state audit. Whether the funds have been spent in the framework of the budget items. If they are not spent for other useful purposes or there are indeed some elements for illegal actions. However, when we talk about a whole series of institutions, institutions and local self-government, state bodies, etc. Then there are always problems that are life-threatening, that are real. Namely, whoever comes to power if we look at local self-government or regional or we look at the state level is always faced with similar problems, there is always a question of debt that the previous government left to resolve. Again, the problem is the lack of money to start with the problems that were planned in the election campaign. And with these problems, we generally face each other all the time. However, I would say here that perhaps too little time is devoted to small municipalities and their real problems that generally have possibly one person employed and do not have too many professional people, not because they would not want to hire, sometimes they are objective nature that there is no money for such things and then a whole series of jobs remain on one... So usually on... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, the question is how much that person is educated, how much education, how much he can follow all these laws, how much he can absorb the mass of work that appears in such a small community. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know, a lot of examples any of you can say. For example, my municipality of Donja Fruit and Chief Ivica Lokaček do not really have the means to hire a headmaster. He's got a regular secretary who's doing a whole series of administrative work. And now the chief has to do a lot of things on his own, so, among other things, he's got to book it himself, he's got to do it, he's got to do it, he's got to do it, he's got to do it, he's got to do it, he's got to do it, he's got to do it, he's got to do it, he's got to do it, he's And if there's any mistake, it's normal for the revision to determine that. Now, what to do with that man. Do you punish him for spending his money usefully. Apparently, he didn't spend on some luxury, but to pave the roads, etc. In my opinion, the key question is what should be done in that case. The audit should, in any case, be twofold, on the one hand, certainly record all possible irregularities observed at any level, which is understood but should also be educated by local officials in order to comply with the law. So, among other things, if we remember all together by 2003, there was a completely different way of monitoring the budget at the head of the cash register, and everyone was able to figure out how to make changes to the Budgetary Accounting Regulation, in fact, to change these... plans that are still objectively very common for such local officials are hard to track. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if we look at a little higher levels and they also have similar problems because it's been contruding all along, that's one way, and now it's another. And you can see it automatically in the budgets. I come from Varazdin County, which was mentioned among other things. Here, of course, the problems are not significantly different than in other counties and perhaps some specificities that are also important to mention. I don't know, the Varazdin County, for example, has four hospitals, and I guess that's by some kind of categorization at the top, so sometimes we expect more funds, and then we have to separate both from the original part of the budget for schools and hospitals, so I'm not going to elaborate on the issues of these health institutions right now. But in any case, we must also remind ourselves that sometimes decentralised funds don't come in time. If we have in our budgets local self-government or regional self-government funds, we have to pay for electricity, gas, so other communals that are from the original part. And on the other hand, sometimes when there are no other needs, then the decentralised means of re-use, I mean, they may be spent in a day or two when they come straight. And now often said, the audit finds that funds from decentralised sources have been spent. Well, of course, so the money doesn't have... We all know that, and everyone who is in the executive power must be very careful how many useful programs they implement. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if we went further, of course, and the final bill was 31.12. It's not the day that life stopped. It's just a record of what the state of that moment is like. And yet if we were to analyze both the processes and the public procurement that's going on, whether it's a new construction or whether it's about adaptation, what are the problems. Often this man should be an artist getting out of all these problems. Anyone who's in local self-government knows what a single application means when it comes to adaptation, what it's all about with projects, how it should possibly be adapted, whether it stops during an adaptation with an object that needs to be completed as soon as possible because it may be uncovered, etc. So here I may, at the end of this discussion, have somehow the need to say that I have had good experience with the state audit both in terms of consultation and in terms of sometimes education, and it would be good for these reports to be really better from year to year to year to become less and less observant. However, we must all be aware that this is almost impossible. Life in ministries, government, local self-government is filled with everyday problems and should certainly just base the way it works so that there are no illegal shops. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55680	Thank you. Now we're going to five minutes of club debates. Honored representative Pero Kovacevic Club of HSP Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55681	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, finally, representatives of the competent authorities, can finally say on behalf of the HSP Club that we are not satisfied with the state of the State Audit Office. It is obvious that, year after year, one of these things is repeated and that the matter cannot be taken into account by the legal and orderly business of the competent authorities because, taking into account the fact that 3.4 billion kunas are spent on public procurement against the provisions of the law, this is already enough for itself and means that in this area public procurement is the largest space for manipulation and for various other illegalities. But we are particularly amazed by the fact that the defence situation is getting worse in the area of the Ministry of Defence. Because if we did, he was a little bit spoken of, if you look at the State Audit Office report on the Ministry of Defense situation is more than bad. Let's just say I'm just going to repeat the most important parts. The own revenues of 78 million kuna have not been paid to a single bank account. The expenditure on remounted, general remounted aircraft services was also not done in a manner prescribed by law. Public procurement procedures totalling 28 million 630 thousand 53 kuna were carried out so contrary to the law. That's a huge amount. Furthermore, during 2004, material was purchased for the current investment maintenance of 3 suppliers of 2 million 735 thousand 427 kuna means the same against the laws. Costs for the purchase of goods were made in the amount of 35 million 970 thousand 652 kuna. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Public procurement laws. The expenditure on field vehicles also incurred in the amount of 34 million 745 thousand 624 kuna has also been found not to be harmonised or done with the guidance on how to apply and the conditions of application of the "offset" programme. It is therefore a deeply worrying fact that in a large ministry like this, important, and we know for ourselves, we have seen the situation and the state of such irrational behaviour of taxpayers' resources. And it really twos us how in which way we, in the Club of the Croatian Party, will evaluate this report. But in the end, we have to mention one important thing that we have been warning for a long time, which is that the State Audit Office is unfortunately not independent. The State Audit Office must be an institution that will not be dependent either on the Government or on the Ministry of Finance, but unfortunately, in all these situations so far, it is clear that it is the State Audit Office which is directly dependent on both the Government and the Ministry of Finance, and in such an addiction, there are no proper measures or procedures, and it is normal to send all of this to the State's Attorney's Office, but I am saying that we must try to bring the regulations into line. Therefore, we cannot talk about the independent position of the State Audit Office and the introduction of the text of the report that the audit is carried out by authorised state auditors in a manner and according to the procedures laid down by the International Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions published in the National Journal and 1994 are not accurate. It also means that a state audit office should be made independent and responsible in all these situations when it determines the actual situation, and not after that, to give everything in the materials that we are now going to send to the State's Attorney's office, and we know how and how to act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55682	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55683	Thank you, Mr. President. So here I am correcting the incorrect assumption that the State Audit Office is addicted, the office, that the Office is dependent on you, Mr. Kovacevic, would have nothing to talk about today.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55684	The second amendment. Honorable representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55685	So on the same track, the State Audit Office is in charge of the Croatian Assembly, and if it has knowledge and in which part it is dependent on the Government of the Republic of Croatia it would be worth hearing that Kovačević presented these thesis. If he suspects them that he's telling them exactly that we're trying to remove that deficiency if it even exists.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55686	Third correction, respected representative Zlatko Kramaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55687	Thank you. Excuse me. I'm also joining this correction of an incorrect allegation. It is really very dangerous to say that one institution and people who trust the Croatian Parliament to be led into doubt that they are, for such evidence, also need much more than this flat-rate assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55688	For the HNS Club, respected representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55689	Thank you, Mr. President. Here we have today's 11th report from the State Audit Office. And every report like I said yesterday is every time getting better and more quality even in, better graphically processed. But the question is, what does it all mean? It's, uh, all that reminds me of, uh, "I don't give a shit about your players." And all this stuff that's done no good because every year the same mistakes are repeated. Every year the same shortcomings are observed and every year we just find: Yes, the report is excellent. And nothing is done to prevent such failures from happening in the next reports. I'd go back to that public procurement that a lot of people talked about, and I would go back to yesterday. It's about three billion and 400 million goods purchased outside the Public Procurement Act. Part of it against the law. Part of it wasn't done by law at all. And now the question is, what's going to happen to those who did it that way? Nothing. Believe me, nothing. For in, the revision says this: In cases where irregularities have been identified, the Office has ordered action in accordance with the provisions of the Public Procurement Act. He's ordered the procedure. What happens to those who didn't act like that? Nothing. The Public Procurement Act says: From 5 to 50 thousand kuna fines. Who's going to punish them? No one. Which of these, of the local self-government units where 130 million kunas were obtained against the Public Procurement Act, will which of them be punished? No one. And then why are we listening to this? It's a waste of your effort, players. And every year the same story. Not to mention criminal acts. The Law on Criminal Procedure states: "All authorities and all legal entities are obliged to report offences that are being prosecuted under official duty, which have been notified to them or which they themselves have learned.". The state audit also has knowledge at the moment when there is knowledge of some kind of crime, in referring to a criminal offence, it doesn't even have to be. The State's Attorney's office is here to investigate whether it's a crime. Why does a state audit not report such cases in the audit process itself? And then all the other reports would make sense. This way, if we keep working this way, no use. We just get here, we discuss it, and we say it's great, it's beautiful, they did it great. And in the end, what have we done? Nothing. Every year it's the same story. Who was punished after any State Audit report? And who paid any punishment? No one ever.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55690	Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. Here you go. ... What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please explain what you want. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55691	Mr. President, as far as I know, the SDP club has been reported for 5 minutes, so I'm wondering why you wouldn't let anyone on behalf of the SDP club address it in five minutes like other clubs did.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55692	Interesting. For a very simple reason, because now it's up, because that SDP club is up now. Behind this.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55693	You read Mr. Secretary. You haven't read the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55694	What? The minister can pick up any time he wants, so he'll come forward as a member of the government. Because he's authorized to do that. And on behalf of the club, a respected colleague, is scheduled to speak on behalf of the club in a five-minute debate. Is there another problem? ... So you're saying that I've been dealing, changing, that I've changed, right? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I just changed. You have a secretary who keeps records, which puts...... Thank you very much for this compliment. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55695	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, allow me to look back on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in just one segment to discuss the findings of the State Audit, I will probably and later take the right to clarify some things. But I'd regret saying something. The findings of the State Audit are the continuity of all government affairs. And every finding shows certain improvements. But it's very interesting that certain things that were three years ago were geniuses, today it's catastrophic, crime. That's not good when we talk about the same things in different ways. But what is not good for us who do politics, and also for the sake of the Croatian public, is that 3 billion and 400 million purchases were made illegally, beyond the law, etc., which is simply not true. Because when you look at billions and 417 million that were allegedly made out without, in fact, contrary to the consent of the Public Procurement Act, 3 billion 239 million refers to the supply of drugs. And it's very interesting that since this country, since the revision, the same way they've been getting drugs, is exactly the same. And they are supplied according to the provisions of the Drug Act. And it's very interesting that for the past 10 years it's been great, but in 2004, it's a crime. And that's what's not good. And if for 10 years it worked the same way, it was done, now it's done in 2004, it's a crime, it wasn't a crime before. However, what I would like is a note. Medicinal products in the European Union have special status. So if the amount of 3 billion and 417 million is subtracted from the 3 billion and 239 million related to the supply of drugs, then it can be talked about 180 million kunas, possible non-compliance with the Public Procurement Act. But there's one other thing. The DOD has 97 million, Ministry of Interior 22 million. That's almost 119, 120 million kuna. And with them, it appeared because of specificity. And the Department of Defense and the Ministry of the Interior. However, what I would like to say is that all the other users have not obtained from the Public Procurement Act, but rather from thinking that some purchases might have had to be this way, in terms of 80 million kuna, to 90 billion budgets. Is that a crime that needs to be talked about? But when it's said to be 3 and a half billion then that figure sounds impressive. However, I repeat, I think for the sake of the Croatian public, 3 billion 239 million applies to medicines. And I repeat for the sake of the Croatian public, not the same way the drugs have been supplied over the past years. So, the Croatian Health Insurance Institute did not do anything else. However, if we look at the Ministry's report, the review for the Ministry of Health in 2002, 2003, and look at the reports that are practically without error in 2004, this should be said about what has been done in health and what has not been done in health care. However, we can't get one that, I repeat, all these years of the existence of the Croatian state is based on the Drug Act, prices are determined when, when we're in power, it's okay, when someone does it, it's not right. It's that it's not good. But I'm saying, since that amount is over 94% of this amount that we're talking about, frankly speaking when you read the title "3 and a half billion obtained against the law" that makes it look scary. However, because of the Croatian public, we must tell the truth because of ourselves who we are in politics. And I'm telling you, I repeat, when we take away this 120 million more of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior, then all the budget users have 80 million kunas of public procurement where they haven't completely, not that they've acquired the law on public procurement, but they haven't complied with the Public Procurement Act. However, the same thing that is very interesting points out. There are 27 items of chronic irregularities that were corrected in 2004. And what's very important is the unconditional opinion, so a good finding of the State Audit, in 2003, had seven users, budget users, and in 2004 there were 17. So, 100 and more percent increase in budget users who have had proper business. Well, that clearly says that both the former government and this government have made certain moves to correct these irregularities. I don't think anyone, I never did it in my presentation and when I was an opposition representative, I didn't say that or any fellow minister deliberately did something. So every government struggles to correct irregularities. And that's why it would be good for the State Audit reports to see what was removed at the outset, which was done after removing the irregularities of the last audit, and then we could discuss better quality and better. But I repeat that 3 and a half billion are being spent against the law, and out of that 3 billion and 239 million drugs have been supplied for 10 and a half years in the same way, then I don't think it's good for both us and the Croatian public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55696	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55697	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm correcting an incorrect assumption that it's a flat-rate score. It's not a flat rate, it's a state audit, and that's what it says here, with letters and 3 billion and 417 million 620 thousand kuna. That's what the state audit report says, and this isn't a flat-rate review.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55698	State chief auditor, Šima Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55699	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I was thinking yesterday to take a little word about getting medicines in health, because that's one big problem, but given that today continued to discuss it, I'm going to try to explain some things here. The audit shall be carried out by methodology for all equally. As far as health institutions, hospitals, 64 of them were conducted according to the same methodology, according to the same criteria. All of our findings, and there were 2181 found recommendations for 2004, were given the possibility of responsible persons in the subject of the audit to explain, explain, correct more during the revision as possible and everyone participated. It refers to all hospitals and so on and to a viritistic hospital. Here what the gentleman gave me, the lady who wrote that, I don't know if she was the director at the time of the audit, probably not, explaining the transition from one accounting system to another, that is. with a non-profit, accounting system how to run it, how to run it, and the auditors know it very well and they recorded it. There's not a single new element here that hasn't been audited. When the revision determines the elements, it proposes reports and opinions. The opinion must be explained by everyone who has to be, the state of financial reports, the state of business, the threshold of the significance of certain irregularities and commissions in my office, which consisted of more, and previously was Mrs Bauer, assessing whether the opinion on what the auditor suggested or not was. Therefore, if there were any additional things that we could not see, then the lady could give us at the time of the obvious, or at the time of the revision, these remarks. I don't know if she was there or not, if she was here explaining. It further explains the way in which the Institute's income is achieved. We all know that the Institute sometimes comes and is late with incomes, etc., way of spending extra income, way of covering some obligations. I can only say that I took a quick look here, that Virovitica Hospital had supplies, that it had the consent of the Ministry of Health on all supplies etc., I can only say that. And if there is, I repeat again, at the time of the debate, we now give 60 days to reflect on some of our findings in order to remove as many irregularities as possible in those 60 days, as little as possible. Because we're not aware when there's a lot of irregularities. I'm personally most pleased when I see irregularities shrinking, there are more of them, and our role is somewhat instructive, which helps. All of what we succeed in the subject of the audit at the time of our audit, so all of it, I must confess this while the reports are being sent to the Parliament we are trying to amend it in our report. Because we're satisfied when things are done and the more we do, the more we... As for the supply of drugs, I have to say here that the same findings in HZZO exist in 2003 and 2004, and now there is no change in methodology. [[You don't understand.]] Mrs. Bauer was conducting a review of what it said in 2002, it said back then. Now I'm going to explain what's going on. According to the Law on Public Procurement, medicines, i.e. HZZO is not exempt from the procurement process and this is already a problem for us four, five years in the audit that we have been trying to solve in a way that we have tried with the Office of Procurement, the Ministry of Health, HZZO, the Ministry of Finance and we see if the Ministry of Finance will give an opinion that it is not. We never got that opinion. So it's the same way. Now I'll be able, since we've been working, the explanation is here. That's one big problem for us. If someone says it is not applicable and the Public Procurement Office, the Public Procurement Control Commission shall apply. Those who gave the laws and interpretations are like this, and we keep writing it in reports that public procurement for a list of medicines that are applied was up to a billion and 800 somewhere in 2001, so now there are 3 billion and 200 thousand kuna for the purchase of these medicines. If we won, we would have solved that problem that way. Whether he will now deal with new amendments to the Public Procurement Act, we will see in this year. I mean, we'd be happy, we tried, I think there were dozens of meetings on the subject, we couldn't solve it, the rest of it was unsettled to get rid of it, but it got rid of it in a way that the health care sent to the health care institutions notice that they themselves had to implement for these drug lists. We, as an audit, have the right probably to give some kind of opinion, we cannot decide. We can't decide, we gave our opinion that the Institute should carry out the public procurement procedure and then to the health institutions to provide lists of medicines with prices maximumly for them to purchase. Because in our conversation with many members of the board of directors, we have learned that this is a big problem if every health institution is calling itself a competition. So it's still an unresolved question and we'll be happy if it gets solved tomorrow. That's one clarification compared to yesterday and today. And it's happening again, we're trying to solve, we don't have any coercion. We only have, as all of our revisions in the world so this, your MPs to try to sort out how to suggest that this law is changed to try to solve it that way because that's one big problem. And as for these purchases, 3 billion and 400, etc. They're gathering. I have to admit to them that here, where we have stated that some of the procedures are not respected. We didn't say anywhere that it was illegal, some of the procedures that were prescribed. So if we were to determine in our audit that there really were some criminal offences, so that we think they're criminal acts, we're delivering to our state's attorney, we can't apply, but with them we have such cooperation that we have some doubts that in that report, etc. I think there's been a few such deliveries over the years. Although we have no right to endure, I think it's a good collaboration if you get... Therefore, here to suspect that illegal actions would already be in agreement with the President of the Parliament and delivered. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What else do you say here? I'd like to repeat our findings here a little bit more. We can't set up, we don't even have an instrument of coercion of any kind because there's no revisions in the world, so neither can we. But this year we took, last year, the right to ask the audit entities to let us know what happened within 60 days. We're also trying this way, I just have to say that 10 of our auditors have gone to some of the state institutions. 3 at the Ministry of Finance, 4 at the Financial Police, 1 at HBOR, 1 at the Olympic Committee, Croatian Water for Internal Auditors. I hope that they, I believe, will be trained, will take certain actions and there will be fewer of these irregularities because they will stop them before us, so they will probably try to remove them. Therefore, we are doing everything in our jurisdiction to make irregularities as little as possible. This is what I wanted to clarify that, and as regards the independence of the State Audit, we have in some ways met the requirements of the European Union which have made it clear that the State Audit is independent. It is another observation that these funds should be provided and that the State Audit itself distributes them. Well, that's, uh, in one of the coming years, maybe that's what's gonna happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55700	Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55701	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I will correct the incorrect allegation of Honorable Ms. Auditor Šima Krasic, where she claimed that there were no irregularities in the operation of Virovitica Hospital. In fact, you read again between the ranks and you do not want to accept what is the fact, which is that the Croatian Health Insurance Institute has transferred the funds of 4 million and 900 thousand kuna. That these funds should have left out the lack of business, and only 37,000 kuna and 459 lipa were presented as a reduction in the operating deficit. And by the decision I'm telling you and... investment is prohibited in any form. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And there is no consent from the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. I therefore doubt the objectivity and reality of your auditors.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55702	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic, second correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55703	Your Honor, Mr. President. Only the addition of this part that Mrs Krasic corrected. When I said that the State Audit was dependent, I thought that auditors had the status of civil servants and deputies, and they should have independent status. And the second thing is that on page 125 and 126 of this report, which our colleagues have not read the same, it is said that our State Audit is not in line with European standards. This is not the assessment of Pera Kovacevic or the HSP Club, it is the assessment of the European Court of Auditors. Therefore, in this section it is said that it is not as independent as the State Audit should be. And you listen and watch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55704	It's all written but it wasn't a correction to an incorrect assumption. Because your quote was corrected by someone else. Other MPs corrected it. You claimed the audit was independent. Now the state's chief auditor was not correcting that incorrect assumption, please. Don't. SDP club, Honorary Representative Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55705	Thank you very much. What can be read from the audit findings? Irregularities are repeated year after year, Mrs. Šima Krasic has established them, and no one is doing anything to remove them. It is also worrying that this year the report lacked a regular statement from the auditor that the number of irregularities was smaller than in the previous period. Here's a quote from the findings that depicted it: "The consolidated financial report of the general state for 2004 has not been made." The secretary of state came out here half an hour ago for this pay phone and said a consolidated general government financial report for 2004 was made. And we now have the State Audit report and the Secretary of State's word here. Well, the Parliament has to give someone trust. Look, if the State Audit report says something false, then the report has to be rejected. And if the Secretary of State doesn't tell the truth in front of the Parliament, then he needs to be replaced. But I can't come here, one claims it was made, the other claims it wasn't made, nothing to anyone. It's the same thing about that offshore bill. Watch out, page 6 says: "The Ministry of Finance has several foreign foreign exchange accounts, one abroad. No funds are recorded in the business books by foreign foreign foreign foreign exchange account." That's what the State Audit says. On page 6 the secretary of state comes here and says, "No, they're registered." Well, now people of God, we can't do that. We can't do that. Either they're registered or they're not. I mean, it's scandalous if they're not. It's scandalous if they're not. ... But... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55706	Minister Shuker, please. Don't comment and throw. Last warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55707	But if the auditor wrote that it wasn't recorded, if we accept this report it's true what the auditor wrote. Then someone must answer for it in front of this House. Vice-President of the Parliament throws "don't." Of course, for the Vice-President of the Parliament, the government is not responding to the Parliament, so it throws "don't."
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55708	Please, peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55709	Says Minister Schuker here now, and 3 billion 600 million supplies of drugs, were done before, and he wonders how that was before genius, and now it's scandalous. It's never been genius. No one's ever claimed to be brilliant. The only thing Minister Shuker did when he was a minister was say it was scandalous. That's what he claimed to be scandalous, and no one here has ever claimed to be brilliant. And if the audit says it's wrong, then it's no good, brother. It's no good for anyone. It didn't work out before now. And that needs to be changed. Redivided. Another 3 billion and 200 million redistributions. Well, hips and disruptors were rolling on the former government, which financed the development of railways by a billion and 500 million redistribution. Now double the money, 3 billion 200 million kuna without the knowledge of the Croatian Parliament. Well, there was a fuss about how you could redistribute that you didn't come before the Parliament. Well, how did that work out for you, so we'll never do it, so it doesn't occur to me as a minister to do it. So now it's the same in double the amount. And that's not good. It's not a good thing that someone, someone, covering the noise, accusing the former government of their own incompetence, is doing the same thing, even worse. That's not good. The results of the audit must be sacred. If the revision says anything, I think that we all, regardless of whether we were opposition or position, have in the review acquired trust all these years, it is an institution that works modelly, and when the revision tells someone to make it right, so it has to be corrected or it has to be answered. It's a unique view of the State Audit report that we all have to have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55710	Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55711	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. So let me tell the correct information again for the sake of the Croatian public. In 2003, 45 redistributions amounted to 3 billion and 100 million and no redistributions regarding the Croatian Railways were made, no redistributions. So, 2003. 45 redistributions, 3 billion and 100 million, 2004. 33 redistributions 3 billion and 200 million or 12 redistributions less, and you also have one very interesting I say to you the thinking of the State Audit Office, which no one will quote when it comes to redistribution, and he basically speaks about the problem of the former Government and what the problem is with these governments, and the problem is the development of our budget to the fourth level is practically and the State Audit Office has expressed its opinion on materially less significant expenditures should be planned and published by account groups without detailed working out for purposes, which would reduce the need for redistribution and contribute to a better review of budget implementation. More materially significant expenditure, i.e. the cost of paying off loans, should be worked out in detail for the purpose. It's an absorption of the State Audit Office on redistributions of both the former and this government and all members of the former government as well as these governments know why the redistributions were carried out, I'm just saying because of the public it should be said that in 2003 there were 45, 2004. 33, 2005 was far less and that's it. Another thing about this foreign exchange account. It's very interesting that we only read one item, and inside we didn't realize that there were government accounts records that weren't even established until 2004. But it also has that according to bank statements, the beginning of the foreign exchange account was 3 million and 186,000 dollars and at the end of the year was 3 million and 218 thousand dollars and there was no traffic on the account. Therefore, the State Office found that the Ministry of Finance had records and found that there was no change in that account in 2004, therefore there was no need to mistreating the account. If there was a change in that account and they weren't recorded and then we could talk about someone misappropriating anything, but if the State Audit Office finds there hasn't been a change in that account, then that's it. And in the end, let me just say one more thing. So, based on the report of the State Audit for 2003 in 2004, the State Audit Office found that 27 corrections and irregularities were made in 2003, as was the case in the 2003 report, that the previous year would likely be even more high-quality compared to 2004 and the situation itself that in 2006 we finally came to the possibility that virtually all budgetary revenues and expenditures would be recorded in the budget and that they were clearly and transparently shown in the state budget suggest that the formation of the Treasury was something that would lead us to the reduction of the number of irregularities. And the other thing, it works for both the public and everything, is to say that what I said in the previous presentation, but it should be repeated that in 2003 only 7 audited users of the state budget were operating without irregularities, and in 2004 without irregularities, 17 of them were operating, so a shift was made as it was done before the shift so that there were 7 users of the budget to avoid doing business without irregularities. And I think, to conclude, that all of us and the MPs and members of the government are in the interest of being as little irregular as possible. And only one more, if the digression to the presentation of Mrs. State Auditor from the establishment of the State Public Procurement Office according to the requirements of the European Union, the Ministry of Finance is not in charge of public procurement and the Ministry of Finance is not giving any opinion. Opinions on public procurement are given by the State Public Procurement Office, which is why we have set it up to be independent, not to be in any ministry, but to be an independent body, as is the Parliament Public Procurement Commission, and you will also see when a report of the State Public Procurement Commission and the State Public Procurement Office is found on the benches, and you will see how little irregularities are repeated for a certain period. In order for certain things to be fixed and to form a state treasure, certain technical preconditions should be created. I also said when I was talking about the budget that it never occurred to me to say that my predecessor and his colleagues from the government didn't want to set up a state treasury, because anyone who deals with finance knows it makes it easier for everyone. However, perhaps there was not enough political... to do so, but the formation of a state treasury is something that guarantees us all a small number of irregularities and I repeat is not true that 3 and a half billion kuna purchases are illegal, beyond the Public Procurement Act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The supply of drugs is trauma for both the Minister of Health and the state budget, and we will simply have to make a decision on how and how to obtain medicines in hospitals. Look at the report of the State Audit for Health Institutions for 2002 and 2003, you have the exact same application and never I, Mr. MP, have said as an opposition representative that it is scandalous, never, because whoever deals with finances knows well when certain things are not regulated enough by law and I repeat another thing that needs to be said, every budgetary user who gets the funds is responsible for using his budget to the Croatian government, the Croatian Government towards the state council, and I can say with satisfaction that a number of repairs, corrections, irregularities that were in the previous year as well as the former government did for the previous year, and that there were no such procedures would probably be much worse today, and that is what needs to be said in continuity and I repeat the same things is not good in different times, especially in power, you are not in authority to call the same name. We are always parliamentary representatives and we will be parliamentary representatives and members of the government and we will always be members of the government, so it is so good that we also call certain things the same name. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55712	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55713	Thank you very much. But Minister, it's not true that someone is misreading. I read what it says. No assets are recorded in the accounts by foreign foreign exchange accounts of pages 6. So, it doesn't say the ministers that the business books recorded that there was no traffic on that account, it doesn't say. It says exactly as I read it. If it says wrong then it needs to be corrected in the state audits and if it does, then that should be explained why it isn't. But the auditor can't say they're not registered funds and you as a minister say they're registered only not on them, there was no traffic on that account because then the MPs, I'm sorry, they have a report. They're reading from the report. They've got to get to know each other. We have to say if it's a sentence: "No foreign foreign foreign currency funds are recorded in the accounts." Right or wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55714	Second correction by respected representative Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55715	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, you have stated, I quote, "It is not true that the supply of drugs was made under the Public Procurement Act." Well, it's true, Mr. Minister, that it's just the supply of drugs, and that's what you're here for at the pay phone and confirmed that it was carried out under the Public Procurement Act. Another thing I understand because I'm in this business is that it's extremely difficult to comply with the Public Procurement Act. However, executive power needs to find a modus and propose before this Assembly a way to solve this major health problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55716	Honorable representative Ante Markov on behalf of the HSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55717	Dear Mr. President, Madam State Auditor, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Attorney, colleagues and colleagues! In addition to the debate on the state budget and the State budget report on the implementation of the debate on how we spend budget money, how the beneficiaries of the budgets relate to these funds, how the intermediaries that affect, in one way or in another, the end-users of these funds, as well as to the extent to which the law is respected or not. And that final event that speaks of who made a mistake and how it is sanctioned is certainly one of the most important topics and tasks of this House. Of course, every year this same matter is being discussed whether in this wide range as we are discussing today or individually we are trying to read about how budgets have been spent, whether everything has been rational and in accordance with the regulations and to what extent and how certain segments have acted, based above all on the State Audit Report, we have been trying to assess the position of us who are controlling all of this. I will begin at the very beginning to say that at a time when the HSS was in the parliamentary majority, today when the HSS in the parliamentary minority was that we supported, supported and tried to strengthen the role of state audit every year. I would also like to point out here today that in the same way, regardless of the parliamentary minority, we will continue to act this way because we believe that this is the only serious way to do exactly what is the task of the law but also to confirm the role of this Parliament in the right way. Of course, yesterday I mentioned it in the debate what I can add to more criticism than the state audit is this home. For what? In fact, almost systematically every year, certain conclusions we have made are repeated as to whether or not this parliamentary majority was before. These conclusions spoke of certain mandatory conclusions which were to be carried out or to remove certain deficiencies or to report whether these irregularities had been removed in the new period. And, of course, almost saying, well, even today, this isn't the final event of saying this is done, this isn't lagging out so that the conclusions look just empty on paper, and from the aspect of the responsibility of this home, of course, it's not good. What is not the age of the State Audit report is that the redistribution of the budget was of course carried out without the decision of this House. This is what needs to be avoided and in 2004, it was almost 33 times redeployed and, of course, it was not given the consent of this home. For a reason or without it at this point, of course, it doesn't matter that much. What I would also like to mention from the report is the role of the tax administration. Why the tax administration? Not in a negative sense, but above all through several reports is a very clearly positioned assessment of the state's audit that certain large taxpayers who have incomes of over 50, 70 or 100 million kuna per year have been not subject to supervision for many years and that some of the 98, 99 or never were controlled. I think we should just introduce it. Why? We can't just control the little ones. I know it's easier to control them but the big taxpayers, the big companies are just too much involved in this now thing so they'll be out of control for four, five, six or more years. And of course, if we include them now and we find that certain taxpayers have not paid for it will not be able to retroactively charge it because of course they either fell into obsolescence or fall into obsolescence. Therefore, we need to give after each state audit report and an assessment of what, in the sense of the part that the executive power should do, what has been done and at which level the decision of this House has been made through the conclusions and through this debate, helped to welcome the spending of budgets at a higher level in the following year, to make it more rational and to comply with the rules.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55718	Thank you very much. For the club HSLS, LS, DC, respected representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55719	Dear Mr. President, Ms. Krasic, dear Minister! Let me also say on behalf of the Club of HSLS and DC our final review of this, or on the report on the audit carried out for 2004 of the State Budget for the same year. In fact, this issue, the issue of independence or the dependence of certain institutions in our country, has already been raised here. And we think that especially for countries in transition that insisting on independence is something that is "conditio son qua non" of our modernization, our... And indeed, Parliamentarians should also contribute to the fact that we certain institutions, we build faith in some institutions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why some, transition in Russia, is not working because institutions are being ignored and while in one America, you're going to see really series being created about it, about American courts, and in this way it's really growing the belief of independence and that role of the American court in which we usually and as we have as, as a perception. I know it's hard for us to record a series, a soap opera about state audit, but the state audit really does do a siziff job, and it's a little bit like a ritual that's repeated from year to year, and then we really get the impression that we're working hard on our players and that... The dogs are barking, and the caravan is still passing, but it seems to me that we are knowingly avoiding and reading what in this audit, in a very subtle way, Mrs Krasic tells us every time, and we in this club think that the biggest contribution is this, this one appeal of this revision to finally be established in the Republic of Croatia, it is finding its own business facts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that, just like that, we'll be able to kind of have a clearer insight into our budget and budget, budget projection, but also about what that audit in that budget should say. And exactly the whole series of audits and it's not possible precisely because of the inability of an objective and exact determination of the actual state. I don't think we still have this, uh, uh, we don't have a total so-called. balance sheet in Croatia. And that's what the review also says nicely. The main books and auxiliary books still do not provide full information on the total public debt, assets, obligations and claims of the state. And then what we're talking about right now is what we're talking about. It's like, it's a thing that we obviously haven't been able to do in 15 years. And now, I'm asking you how we're, at all, any government in 2003 if, since it's about her being related, she, in some ways, predicted what would happen in 2004 she could estimate the country's bonus. How could she give certain guarantees at all if we don't actually have that kind of necessary insight, insight into our balance sheet. We don't really know, we don't know about our public debt or our assets, our obligations and our claims. And that's actually where the problems come in and that's why, and that's why we avoid talking about the same thing. But every time we deal with an ideological position, are we in the position of the opposition or are we in position? And it seems to me that one of the key decisions and this House should be to give the government of Croatia the time to do this job, to get this job done as soon as possible, so that we really finally know what this government has to do with what this country has to do with it. And then we're really going to be able to talk more easily about the projections of any budget, and by doing that, if we have a clearer projection, then we have a clear idea, or we can't escape the impression that we're consciously involved in creating an illusion, a virtual reality, but I'm saying the theory has written it off. And here there's this great book by Michael Lever, "private Desires and Politics," where he's talking about political entrepreneurs and how to stand up to them. I also, sometimes it seems to me that we expect as in those good old Western movies that Mrs. Krasic rides into the city in a cloud of dust, to bathe and drink, though she is a lady and, well, that whiskey we'll skip, we'll kick the bad guys out of town while the rest of us are peeking behind the curtains. To ride out in the sunset. Usually in the movie and a little easier and easier wounded, but we certainly don't want to hurt her. And he says still for the argument itself along the way you've always broken at least one, cowboy, head John Wayne or Gary Cooper broke one domestic heart and then we actually have one such picture, a picture of the situation in our society that there's someone else instead of us, but I'm saying it only happens in movies. Because the sooner the Parliament commits the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the sooner we really determine what it is, what this country has and what its real potential is and what all its dubiosis and its resources are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55720	Thank you very much. The IDS Club is a respected representative of Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55721	Your Honor, Madam Representatives, I'm not going to talk about getting drugs because I'm not in my 20-minute debate yesterday, I'm talking about these redistributions by the parliament. Namely, gentlemen, someone is going to say only 3.2% of the total funds planned. And that looks like nothing at first sight, but that 3.2 billion, 2% is actually 3 billion 263 million kuna. And 3.3 billion kuna, that's huge money. This is as much money as all Croatian clinical hospitals have made in 2003, or that 3.3 billion kuna is almost 4 times more than they offer to help in the districts without the city of Zagreb. Or that 3.3 billion kuna is 1 and a half times more money than all the budgets, all the Croatian counties. It means 20 of them without the city of Zagreb. And they make the budget, the budgets of 2 billion 418 million kuna. These are the equivalents, these 3.3 billion kunas. Or that 3.3 billion kuna is twice as much as it was incomed from customs in 2004. This is 3 times more than it was income from the tax on real estate tax or the sale of state-owned enterprises, and so on and so on. What is extremely important, however, in those 3.3 billion kunas that are distributed past the Parliament to generate indifference by such practice in this country. Unpaid obligations in the Republic of Croatia at this time exceed 11 billion kunas as states so clearly of private persons. But it is undeniable that the state, or that the state indirectly generates indivisibleness by this practice, and in particular, this is the case with health care where the debt of the general hospitals of general hospitals exceeded 3 billion and 300 million kuna. I don't see how these general hospitals are going to get out of all of this in our counties that they should worry about and the hospital's budgets are incomparably bigger than theirs. However, there is another problem, and this report shows. Unfortunately, units of local self-government plus states have become not only expensive but become their own purpose. Of the 11 billion kunas generated by 568 units of local self-government plus the city of Zagreb 5 billion kuna is a total of 16 billion kuna. All 4 billion kunas are expenditure on investments or non-financial assets. In the country of gentlemen of 100 billion kuna, 83 billion kuna is total operating expenditure. The expenditure on financial assets is a billion 663 million kuna. If we clearly add roads, Croatian waters etc. It's just that it's probably about 10 billion kuna. So that's what's amazing, what we should talk about here. Because our budgets are solely in the post of payouts, debt payments, pensions, health care, welfare, assistance, subsidies, and then it's clear there's no development. And it wouldn't be a problem if that 116 billion kuna wasn't 55% of the 2004 gross social product. So, what do we do about it? We just can't cut costs. I do not envy Minister Shuker here, because everyone expects Minister Shuker to be increasingly singled out both for local self-government and for defenders and for health care and for the social and for pensions and for salaries in the administration and for the military, etc. The solution, and I am glad that Minister Schuker comes from one big city of Velika Gorica because decentralisation and clearly attracting capital, the launch of investments when Croatia and investment cannot start with its own resources. Unfortunately, this will not work without the European Union. But lastly, I really want to quote on the 27th side of this expenditure, expenditure made according to class levels of public spending. The state was incomeing 100 billion kuna, operating expenditures of 16 billion, material expenditures 4 and a half, financial expenditures 4.4, subsidies 5 billion, aid 3.8 billion, civil and household fees 45 billion, other expenditures 4. So the total operating expenditure of the state of 100 billion is 83 billion kuna. The cost of financial assets, the payment is 15 billion and means non-financial assets and a billion investment of 663 million kuna. It is I think Croatia's biggest problem at the moment, which the state is increasingly doing itself. Okay, he needs pensions, health care, etc. Paying and no, she can't be the one who's going to start development, even though we all clearly expect it from her.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55722	Thank you. On behalf of the PGS, SBH and NDS, the Honorable Representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55723	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Madam Auditor, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen. Here, let me refer briefly to this report on behalf of the regional party club. Our club supports this report as well as supports the work of our State Audit, but what we cannot support is all those mentioned and mention irregularities and illegalities recorded in some ministries and some other institutions. So, the audit has done its part of the job. She controlled procurement procedures, controlled the work of ministries and other institutions, registered these irregularities and illegalities, and what we warn and what I think should certainly be improved is the efficiency of other state bodies which would, therefore, sanction the observed irregularities and illegalities. Such sanctions are very limited, and this is all affecting the level of responsibility in relation to the spending of state resources, i.e. that is, the spending of our citizens' funds. This report also gives us a lot of useful information, and for us regional parties are particularly interesting data that reaffirms that our municipalities, cities, counties or most of them are in a very difficult financial situation. In this way, we can illustrate this in this example, the functioning, the work of the state authorities, the ministries, so it's written on hundreds of pages, e.g. for the work of Međimurje County, i.e. for the work of all municipalities, cities and counties in Međimurje, only two lists or 4 pages were sufficient. So there was almost nothing to write about. And why is that? Because our municipalities, our cities, our county had very little resources. So we heard that the 2004 budget was somewhere around 100 million kuna. So the state managed and spent that money. We know that the budgets, the total budgets of the local self-government units are about 4 billion kuna, that the City of Zagreb in 2000 also had around 4 billion kunas at its disposal. And here's an example right now of the Međimurje County, so I'm going to illustrate what the situation is down there, so on the ground in certain counties. This report showed that the budget revenues and receipts of all units, local and regional, regional, self-government in Međimurje, Međimurje County were 250 million kuna. If we compare that to the state budgets that are about 100 billion kuna, we see that it's a huge rebalancing, i.e. that it is only 0.25% of the funds in relation to the state budget. The Međimurje County on the other hand has 120,000 inhabitants, or that is about 2 and a half percent of the population of the Republic of Croatia. So we see that it's a huge disproportionate. If one of the criteria therefore was to redistribute the budget funds over the population, then the Međimurje County would receive much, much more funding. Here, so that's the illustration we're raising and our minister. We know that there have been several initiatives here in the Parliament over the past few years, even now on the Parliament's agenda, too, the initiative of certain political parties precisely on redistributing financial resources. So, I hope on behalf of the club, too, that there will soon be a change in these ratios, which would have a significant impact on the faster and better quality economic growth of the Republic of Croatia throughout its territory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55724	Thank you. For the HDZ club, respected representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55725	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Here, I would like to say that I must underline that during 2004, actions were taken to correct the shortcomings and remove the failures from the 2003 audit report. According to the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament of 14 April 2005, it is said that it was actually asked by the Government to create a programme to remove irregularities from the 2003 report that should be said that it was made on 150 pages and I must admit that very few MPs are talking about it, which I think is very important. The findings of the state audit also confirm that the Ministry of Finance are constantly taking action to ensure comprehensive records at the level of the central state budget. In the field of accounting business, and related to government audit tasks, all short-term loans have been recorded, all business changes in kuna and foreign currency are updated daily. The withdrawal and payment of the loan has been coordinated. All requests for activated guarantees have been recorded. All obligations for issued foreign and foreign bonds have been recorded. As regards the implementing rules, it should be said that the Ministry of Finance has taken appropriate measures in relation to the adoption of implementing rules under the Accounting Act. It should also be said that the deadline for the adoption of those implementing rules would be 18 September 2003, and very important regulations have been adopted, this Ministry of Budgetary Accounting and Accounting Regulations, the Financial Reporting Regulations in the Budgetary Accounting, the Budgetary Control Regulations, the Internal Audit Regulations, the Budgetary Users Register, the Budgetary Official Card of the Budgetary Inspector, the Policy on the handling of the borrowing of units of local and regional self-government, the Budgetary Identification Regulation and the Management of the Budgetary Register, and what is important, the concession Regulation. As far as redistribution is concerned, I remain at the view that the deviation, i.e. the redistribution of 3.2% of the total planned funds, shows one real planning. I suggest for all those who claim the opposite that they make one daily home budget at the beginning of the day and that at the end of the year, but analytically, and at the end of the day to see how far the deviation will be. I'm sure there'll be a greater deviation than 3.2%. While this methodology of planning, which was made by decision in 2002, is such an analytical, not according to one classification, by groups, so far will be redistributed. They're significantly reduced to what I say talking about one shift in planning. Finally, I would just like to point out that, in the opinion of the State Audit Office, the 2004 State Budget Financial Report is shown objectively and truthfully in all aspects. The findings and recommendations of the State Audit have been shown by the legislator, which is very important if we take into account last year when the legal representative did not even try to make a statement at all, give his reasons, let alone remove the failures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55726	Thank you. And for the club of Independent Representatives, respected representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55727	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Representatives of the State Audit Office, respected representatives of the Attorney's Office, Ministry of Finance. Let me speak in front of the club of Independents several of our own and my personal principles about the work of the State Audit, which, of course, we discuss every year not only at this respected high representative body in the Croatian Assembly but also at the level of units of local self-government and regional self-government. So I would like to stress that I also believe today that the work done by the State Audit is extremely responsible, that it is a way of controlling and controlling the spending of budget money and at the level of the state and at the level of units of local self-government, that I appreciate that opinion and that I consider it not only in this year very high-quality. It was here that there were irregularities that the State Audit found, about 33 redistributions, about neutering or not withdrawing credit funds, and about paying the budget, or spending taxpayers' budget money, due to the lack of credit funds, because of the lack of a programme on approved loans, because of the fact that there was also a jury account abroad, that was finally also about the violation of the Public Procurement Act. What I'd like to point out is the next fact. I believe the State Audit Office is doing its job very well. I believe that from year to year it determines irregularities, to show them where there are these irregularities. I don't want to go into individual cases, but I also call on this speaker State's Attorney's Office to respond to these irregularities. We cannot discuss and spend time year after year, point to irregularities, and on the other hand those who need to sanction and irregularities do not give an answer, not entering the answer. I'm just wondering as a citizen, as a taxpayer, who's right here. Whether we are about irregularities that determine the State Audit we are bringing to court and we can bring to court, that these are really irregularities, and I remind you that there are irregularities in which millions of amounts have been spent or I need to actually, or I should find an answer in those who can give an answer whether the State Audit is right. So I want to say that I expect the State's Attorney's Office to find the State Audit, especially when it comes to millions of amounts, says its last word, whether there are elements of criminal responsibility or not. It's just about getting the drugs. It's about billions. As I said by correcting the incorrect assumption, it is not true that the Public Procurement Act has not been violated, the Public Procurement Act has been violated, the Public Procurement Act has been violated by healthcare institutions, medicines are not allowed to be supplied by direct contracts, and I expect those who exercise authority, i.e. from the Government of the Republic of Croatia to propose a law to this High House that regulates this public procurement procedure regarding medicines. It's not a negligible sum, it's about 3 billion and 200 million kuna. So we can't ignore that fact. And finally, I am personally very pleased with the findings of the State Audit on what the State Audit points to. However, I am also asking not only the State Attorney's Office to at least declare whether there are irregularities in these findings of the State Audit not only at national level but also at the level of local self-government units and whether these identified irregularities are subject to or have elements for criminal application. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-08-0.u55728	Thank you. As far as I'm concerned, neither the State Auditor nor the Attorney General nor the Finance Minister would like to give further consideration, so I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act should now be on the agenda. However, this Law is related to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction and Part-Corruption of Central Authorities of the State Administration. At its 17th session, held on 9 November to 15 December last year, the Croatian Parliament refused to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Construction and the Part-Corruption of the Central Authorities of the State Administration which governs the jurisdiction of the state authorities. Among others, the Ministry of Family and Ministry of Social Care. In accordance with Article 151 of the Treaty on The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of the Law, which was rejected at the session, cannot be re-entered into the agenda of the session before the end of the period of 3 months from the date on which the Croatian Parliament adopted it, and the debate on this point cannot actually be held without a session, at this session of the Croatian Parliament. And as individual issues in the jurisdiction of these two ministries are also regulated by the final draft of the law, now proposed in amendments to the Law on Social Welfare, on the basis of the opinion of the Committee on Human Rights and the rights of national minorities, we should discuss this bill. So, to discuss the building, and they're not based on bringing. We will therefore postpone this debate until the coming of the Law on Construction and the part-rounding of central state bodies. Report on the activities undertaken to remove irregularities in the findings of the State Audit Office for 2003 and the planned measures for long-term removal, the removal of irregularities such as the Report on activities to prepare a single list of state assets. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, I am voting on the next conclusion, the report on the activities undertaken in this regard is accepted, further, not to be fully read. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 78 votes in favour, 10 abstentions and 13 against the proposed conclusion. Report on the activities undertaken to remove irregularities in the findings of the State Audit Office for 2003 and the planned measures for long-term removal, the removal of irregularities such as the Report on activities to prepare a single list of state assets. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, I am voting on the next conclusion, the report on the activities undertaken in this regard is accepted, further, not to be fully read. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 78 votes in favour, 10 abstentions and 13 against the proposed conclusion.
