ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60449	Thank you very much, Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning I will correct the little lapus of the president, the Croatian agricultural chamber. We fight extremely hard to see other than the Croatian Chamber of Commerce that has certainly revived in Croatia we have in Croatia and Croatia a agricultural chamber. Agriculture as an activity plays a very important role in the Croatian economy, especially today when it faces the challenges of the competitiveness of the European market. This is why agricultural producers should be most directly involved in the creation of agrarian policy through a agricultural chamber that will promote, protect and represent their interests. As we all know, the 2001 Agricultural Law of 2001 provides for the establishment of a Agricultural Chamber. The Strategy for Agriculture and Fisheries of the Republic of Croatia established the country's strategic definition of the need to set up a agricultural chamber, so all this legal part is fulfilled, the need is clear in all legal and strategic acts we have defined ourselves all together for the establishment of the Agricultural Chamber. For the establishment of the Agricultural Chamber of State has provided funds in the state budget for the past year such as the funds provided for this year. Last year, the Croatian Parliament did not receive this bill from the government, but here is the proposal in front of the Croatian Peasant Party club. We in the Croatian Peasant Party Club assess the need for Croatian agriculture, agricultural producers to adopt such a law and that is why we have translated this need into law and here we have proposed to you. The agricultural chamber, as you know, has many European Union countries, and it is the best one that has come to life in Austria. In the interest of the faster development of Croatian agriculture and the adaptation of family agricultural holdings to market conditions, there is a need to establish the Agricultural Chamber as an independent, business, professional organisation. The purpose of the Agricultural Chamber is to include directly the dominant part of agriculture, family agricultural holdings in the business professional organisation, and thus their direct action on the creation of measures of agrarian policy, protection and representation of their own interests, business integration with the food industry, distributors of agricultural products, etc. in order to combine common interests, a single action in the establishment of a balance between the production, processing and consumption of agricultural products on the foreign and domestic markets. We think that the Agriculture Chamber, organised in professional groups, would connect all producers, mainly family farms, processors and distributors, and contribute to direct and constructive cooperation in the design of development programmes and measures with all actors in agriculture, and above all to protect their own interests. At the same time, it would contribute to strengthening entrepreneurship and more efficient business between all forms of organisation and business in agriculture. It should be said that the chambers as an association of activities in Croatia are normably regulated by the Law on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Law on crafts. This proposal sets out that the Chamber is an independent business organisation and is prescribed to be a legal person with public authority, and can be the owner of movable property, can acquire rights and obligations, establish legal persons and engage in them. As a way of action, the county regional chambers are formed, and the county chambers can be established. As far as the specific tasks listed in Article 8 are concerned, let me list them. The work of the Chamber shall be to promote the protection and representation of the interests of agricultural holdings and natural and legal persons carrying out the activities of forestry and fisheries, as well as to national authorities, public administration bodies, in particular when establishing rules of interest for agriculture, forestry and fisheries, discussing the problems of agriculture, forestry and fisheries and making proposals for their development, creating a position to change the economic system and economic policy, creating a position and proposing a solution for improving agriculture and fisheries, monitoring opportunities in agriculture, forestry and fisheries, and preparing reports and proposals on its own initiative or at the request of competent state authorities, units of local self-government bodies, units of regional self-government and public authority holders. Encourage the adoption of laws and other provisions of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, competent authorities, local and regional self-government, harmonisation of opinions, draft laws and other rules of interest for agriculture, forestry and fisheries. The representation of agricultural holdings and fishermen in legal and social issues within the borders defined by the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber and the Statute of the Chamber, cooperation with the bodies of the Croatian Parliament and of the Government, the promotion, coordination, assistance and monitoring of the implementation of strategic programmes in agriculture, forestry and fisheries, action in favour of the creation of the agricultural market and the improvement of conditions for the sale of agricultural products, cooperation with scientific institutes, institutions, agricultural and forestry schools and the support of their activities, co-operation with the institutions and bodies of the state administration in the field of environmental protection, health and conservation of cultural heritage and promotion of agricultural areas, participation in the coordination of economic and social interests in the field of ecology, coordination of the nature of the interests of the members of the chamber, development of cooperation with foreign organisations of farmers, management of the list of chamber members, professional, legal, legal and tax advice of agricultural economies and the management of agricultural sectors, the management of agricultural resources, the management of the agricultural sector, the management of the environment and the management of the environment, the management of the environment, the management of the management of the environment of the agricultural sector of agriculturals, the environment, the agriculturals of the areas of the agricultural sector, the areas of the areas of the agriculturals of agriculturals and the environments, the areass of the areass, the management of the agriculturals of the agricultures of the agriculturals, the agricultures, the areas, the management of the management of the areas and the management of the management of the management of the areas of the management of the management of the areas of the areas of the agricultural sector of the area of the areas of the areas of the areas of the agriculture of the area of the agriculture of the areas of the areas of the agricultural sector of the agricultural sector of the agricultural sector of the agricultural sector of the areas and the agricultural sector of the areas and the areas of the areas of the agricultural sector of the areas and the areas of the areas of the areas and the areas of the areas of the areas of the areas of the areas of the areas of the areas of the areas of the areas of the areas and the areas of the areas of the areas of the areas of the areas of the areas of the areas of the areas of the areas of the areas of the areas of the areas of the areas of the areas of the areas of the areas of the areas of the areas of the areas of the Here, these are the tax-listed all tasks set out in Article 8 that the Croatian Agricultural Chamber must perform. The chamber performs as it is here and stated public authority. In particular, it should be pointed out that this proposal introduces that the bodies of the local self-government and regional self-government units are obliged to notify the chamber of the proposal of the acts they intend to adopt in the case of agriculture. This is a particularly significant provision because through it, agricultural producers will be most directly involved in the creation of agrarian policy in their area. The draft law distinguishes mandatory and voluntary membership. Mandatory members of the chamber are commercial holdings registered in the register and natural and legally registered persons for the pursuit of the activities of fisheries and forestry, State support users and voluntary members may also be other farm members registered in the register. The bodies of the chamber are the Assembly, the Management Board, the Supervisory Board, the President, the two Vice-Presidents and the Director and the Deputy Director. The resources necessary to carry out their duties shall be derived from the resources of the state budget and the budget of the body of the units of local self-government and units of the regional self-government, the membership chamber and the means of carrying out its own activity, and of course from exceptional revenues. Chamber members must pay membership fees. The members of the chamber are registered a register of rural holdings or family farms and pay membership fees per hectare of agricultural and forest land. The members of the chamber entered in the register of companies and cooperatives and craftsmen in the agricultural sector shall pay a membership fee after gross income has been obtained. The funds collected from the membership fee shall be available to the chambers and shall provide material conditions for the operation of the county chambers and outposts. The membership of the chamber shall determine and collect and charge the chamber in accordance with the regulations. The membership rate for the following year shall be determined by the Chamber Assembly. The membership fee shall be paid in the manner and within the time limit set by the congregation. Republic of Croatia i.e. The Government shall provide financial resources from the state budget in accordance with the annual chamber work programme with the consent of the Government to the work of the agricultural and forestry advisory services and livestock services. It should be pointed out that this bill will not involve the accumulation of unnecessary services and administrations, as the chamber is expected to take over jobs, rights and obligations, as well as employees from the Croatian Institute of Agricultural Advisory from the Croatian Stočar Center. We propose to the Croatian Parliament to support this initiative by the Croatian Peasant Party's Club of Representatives, to accept this bill. All comments to be made in the debate in order to achieve a better quality law will be taken into account in the final draft of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60450	Thank you. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system? The Agriculture and Forestry Committee? I'm opening a debate. Club of HDZ representatives, respected representative Marko Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60451	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Agricultural production is an economic activity that plays an important role in the overall economic and social life of the Republic of Croatia. It is carried out in several important branches and most of the work is carried out by family farming households in a traditional way. There are few family economies that are market-oriented and that can deal equally with competition on the market. In recent times, specialised economies that operate as agricultural companies dealing with the production, processing and transport of agricultural products and cooperative organisations that are mostly involved or better incorporated into the Croatian Association are strengthened. And also agricultural craftsmen among them would point out fishermen, beekeepers and others. Agricultural production has not yet reached pre-war production levels in some branches. In particular, there is a lack of vegetables, fruits, milk and other products that are compensated for by imports while in the Republic of Croatia there are all pre-conditions for the development of agricultural production that can meet the needs of the Croatian market and provide for a part of the goods and exports. In the Republic of Croatia there are a number of professional services, institutions and institutions directly related to agricultural production. In the field of agricultural education, 30 secondary schools, 2 higher schools and two universities are active. In the existing system, the institutions of the Republic of Croatia are represented by the Croatian Chamber of Commerce through the Agriculture, Food and Forestry Sector, which is organized by Councils and Groups associations. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Act on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce shall become members of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and, in this case, any craftsman who performs the agricultural activity of the Republic of Croatia, of course, others, but in this case who perform the agricultural activity by enrolment in the register of crafts, shall become members of the Chamber of crafts. At the same time, the majority of family farms in the Republic of Croatia are not members of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. The Agriculture Act, Article 36, requires the establishment of a Croatian agricultural chamber to promote, protect and represent the interests of agricultural holdings. It is good, according to our judgment, that this legal obligation has been joined, i.e. the establishment of a Croatian agricultural chamber. It must bring together legal and natural persons involved in the production, processing and transport of agricultural products and enable them to act directly on the creation of agrarian policy in the Republic of Croatia, in order to improve the development of Croatian agriculture and to adapt the business of agricultural economies to new business conditions. The proposal for a law on Croatia's agricultural chamber, which we are discussing here today, was proposed by the Croatian Peasant Party's Club of Representatives. This is a slightly modified text of the 2002 draft Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, which was created by the then Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. The debate in the Croatian Parliament on the law showed numerous objections to the proposed concept of the establishment of a Croatian agricultural chamber. Compared to the comments made at that time, the text in the proposal for this law has not been developed in a way that ensures assumptions for the establishment of a Croatian agricultural chamber. Therefore, on the proposal of the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, we make the following remarks: First, the Croatian Agricultural Chamber should be established in a way that members of the Chamber make their interests known in the Chamber directly in the professional classes, branches or groups, depending on what name we will decide and indirectly through their elected representatives in the Assembly and bodies of the Chamber and other forms of organisation established by the Statute of the Chamber. Secondly, a new article should be added to Article 2 which requires that the members of the Chamber may only be legal and natural persons carrying out agricultural activities based in the Republic of Croatia. Any possibility must be excluded that members of this Chamber become some legal person who from any country performs or has a company with us and have no registered headquarters. Such an institution cannot be an institution to support someone third but only legal persons operating in the Republic of Croatia. Membership in the Chamber should also be made possible to associations and other organisations such as, for example, the Stočar Union, which improves the work and business of agricultural holdings by their activities. So members could get involved through these alliances and the alliance could be a member of this Croatian agricultural chamber. Third, certain provisions are explicitly written so that they are difficult to understand. At least to me. And colleagues we worked on. For example, the first sentence in Article 15 reads: "The chamber assembly is a chamber chosen by all the members of the chamber." What is the chamber assembly is governed by Article 14. The proposal for this law could, for example, read the introductory phrase in Article 15: "The Croatian Chamber of Agriculture assembly consists of elected representatives of members of the Croatian agricultural chamber." There's no need to, interpreting what the chamber is in two articles repeats. Fourth. Articles 5 and 6 should be re-arranged in a way to establish that the county chambers are part of the Croatian agricultural chamber. So they can't be some other institution or someone else can set them up. They can only be established by a Croatian agricultural chamber if we regulate it by law. Article 12(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 provides that the members of the chamber are to pay the fees to the Chamber of Commerce, and that the members of the Chamber are to be subject to a mandatory membership in the Chamber of Commerce. The Croatian Chamber of crafts and the Croatian Alliance of Cooperatives. This means that such members would have the obligation to pay double membership and to exercise certain rights. In our court, such a solution is not acceptable to... members of the Croatian agricultural chamber. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If it remains in the view that certain legal and natural persons must necessarily be members of the Croatian agricultural chamber then the provisions of the Law on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and in particular Article 2 thereof must be amended. The law on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce because at that time legal persons carrying out agricultural activities cannot automatically become members of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce but must become members of this chamber that we are talking about. Sixth, Article 34: Given the specific tasks carried out by the Croatian Institute for Agricultural Advisory, the Croatian cattle centre is questionable that these two institutions could be integrated into the chamber and become part of the professional services. Today they operate with the help of the state and the state budget but are also doing part of the market to obtain profits. The Chamber shall not be able to carry out any business through which profits are obtained or to carry out its activity for the purpose of obtaining profits on the market. This Chamber must, like all other chambers in Croatia, become a public institution representing its members and all that I have stated in this exhibition, which are the tasks of the Chamber, and primarily protects the interests of its members. And the seventh, in the chapter "The draft law, evaluation and sources of the necessary means to implement the law", the resources for the work of the Chamber are not specified. The costs of the work of the professional services are not shown. It is therefore necessary to specify and display these expenditures. Finally, according to our court for second reading, this law should be prepared in a way that will ensure that Croatia is able to promote, protect and represent the interests of its membership in this law. We also propose to the promoter that together with the Government, together with our Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, prepare this proposal for a second reading. I think in that case we'll get a quality proposal. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the reference of this law to a second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60452	Thank you. The National Minorities Club, the esteemed representative of Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60453	The Honorable President, the Honorable Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Starting with the importance of agriculture for the economy of the Republic of Croatia for the number of populations that ensure existence in this activity, it is inadmissible that the proposer, more so than one to the holder of the former agriculture minister, used statistics in '91. It also explains the necessity of establishing a Chamber of Agriculture. Croatia has implemented such a reform of agriculture already by separating a market-oriented economy from those that produce only for their self-sufficiency and today are supported by income. It is known that there are around 150 thousand family economies in the register of family economies today, or something more, and with this figure it is necessary to manipulate today, not with the number of 490 thousand economies from '91. A year. But this criticism doesn't mean we're against the Agricultural Chamber Act. On the contrary, we regret that this was not done in parallel with the adoption of the Law on Agriculture in 2001, because due to the delicacy of ownership, low technical and technological levels in agriculture, and in order to adapt the family agricultural economies primarily to the market conditions of the Republic of Croatia, but also to create their competitiveness, it is necessary to establish this business professional organisation. Co-operation and wholesale sales of agricultural products were destroyed in the 1990s. The new ones weren't founded. The peasant has been put in a position to make the products have no one to sell to. He is often happy if he sells the same on the gray market and at the cost of losing his incentives. The Department for Agriculture and Food Industry of the Chamber of Commerce does not include family farms that today make up most of Croatian agricultural production. It is therefore necessary to work precisely on a professional association, primarily for the sake of market action, and this Chamber can play an important role. The agricultural chamber will be able to influence the creation of agrarian policy, business integration with the food industry and distribution of agricultural products, provide its members with an advisory and advisory service on matters related to entrepreneurial activity, organise the activities of training and cooperation with the authorities of the state administration in order to provide information services, vocational education and forms of retraining. On the basis of the powers vested in it, provide for promotion and widespread information on their entrepreneurial activity. Connect and develop relations with chambers and commercial institutions abroad for which you must agree our family economies do not have enough knowledge, but neither time, because agricultural production employs... Expansion of knowledge on economic conditions and legal regulations concerning trade relations with abroad, and in this respect to the dissemination and publication of information and professional publications. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It can certainly participate and professionally and help carry out vocational education and support school commitment for this purpose. But what the Chamber of Agriculture does not need to do is administrative farming and professional advisory work in the field of warfare, fruit, vegetable and other production. This should be missed by an independent advisory service, but it should be relieved of the paperwork it is doing today, which should be done by the Chamber and sent to the consultants in the production that calls for them, which best shows the decline of all productions in the Republic of Croatia, the lack of new technologies and unprofessionally applied technologies. This is also true of the selection work, i.e. the Croatian cattle centre. There's no whole system here. If you wish to join the Agricultural Chamber, advisory and selection services why not the Institute for Wine and Winery, the Institute for Fruiting, Plant Protection or the Department for Seeding. They may not be politically interesting because they serve a small number of economies. All of these institutions have been established as a link between science and production, application and applications of new techniques and technologies. We're going to lose the autonomy of these institutions, we're going to create problems in funding. Only Slovenia has accepted a model like this that does not work today even though it is in Slovenia about a richer farmer and better organised agriculture. We must strengthen the village first, but so must the Chamber. Create a farmer with safe income on the one hand, but also set up an agricultural chamber that should primarily protect agricultural entrepreneurship, be a partner to the government in battle for better conditions and income, but never be an institution that deals with the application of new technologies and general production. If the state budget will provide funds for the work of these services, let's leave them where they are today as I pointed out, let's disbursement them parts of paperwork and various statistical reports, which is enough work for the Chamber. Let us not forget that membership is also a new imposition for commercial family economies that will be paid per hectare, while normally for those who are listed today in the register of companies, cooperatives and craftsmen, it will be only a change to another jury account. There are still dilemmas about membership. It would be good for membership to be as voluntary as in many European countries and that the chamber earns its membership fees well. However, given the large number of members, the divided action and the precisely fundamental objective of uniting agricultural producers in order to work together on the market and to look at common problems, one transitional period with mandatory, perhaps five years of compulsory membership may need to be defined, and subsequently foreseeing that the chamber, as I said, must earn its membership fee. The National Minorities Club supports the establishment of a agricultural chamber and its important role in creating agrarian policy measures, adapting to market conditions, with a view to establishing a balance between production, processing and consumption of agricultural products. Once again, we warn the promoter to consider the role of advisory and selection services that do not belong in the agricultural chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60454	Thank you. Proposer, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60455	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Secretary of State. So I think it is necessary to say a few sentences here after the presentation of representatives of the National Minorities, distinguished colleagues Chuhnil and representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community's Club, because I think they both mentioned one problem that may be needed today, all together to discuss. We've had I'd say enough courage to suggest here that we have a debate about something. We do not claim that this is the most perfect proposal that does not require certain additions, certain changes, especially in that part as Mr. Shirac listed certain things that are from norm technical I would say and clear things in certain articles can certainly be changed. However, as for the example of the non-normal part, the introduction itself would read some of the figures most accurately. It is clearly written there that it is the number of agricultural producers that there are and have been as many as 91 and something smaller in 2001, but that number remains the same, but we know exactly that today there are not 150 but 139 thousand 123 exactly family farms, cooperatives or those legal entities that are in the register. So now we have very accurate data, but I would concentrate on what I think is extremely important. That is why the proposal includes the advisory service and the Croatian cattle centre. The overall thinking we have been having is not only that such examples are evident in Slovenia and we can doubt whether they are the best or not, in our conversations it has proved to be good experiences and that Croatia, that such a agricultural chamber in Slovenia has done a lot of good things for their agricultural producers. But we need to know the advisory service is, in a way, the service of Croatian farmers, all those people who are engaged in agricultural production. If it is their service then there is a very clear logic if we do one organization that will be roofed in which one fairly delegated electoral way will be all representatives of these agricultural producers, that this service will certainly be in their care because then we are convinced that this advisory service will certainly give a lot more than it is now, and I would also make it possible to say what is most important. We are now, I believe, that colleague Chuhnil agrees with me, surely at one stage when it is necessary to educate as much as possible, as much knowledge as possible to place on our village in our agriculture, and we think that this way would be achieved. Regarding the livestock centre, I fully agree that certain activities of the livestock centre will not also be able to be transferred directly to Croatia's agricultural chamber. Of course, those certain public powers that should remain out of it have to be defined, we can say those certain examples in that section that, of course, that part of the jobs that the cattle centre is doing today related to the incentives of agricultural subsidies will have to be done elsewhere in that part. But one large part, especially if we look at the selection work, for example in the livestock centre, certainly belongs most directly to the Croatian agricultural chamber. I must say that the selection work in Austria and almost all other countries is also in this part. As far as certain are concerned, there were questions about the source of the funds and I would say the parts that apply in that section. Of course, regarding membership fees, regarding the government's only funding aid will be most needed in the first part, because we are aware that at this moment we cannot burden ourselves with any member's future members of the agricultural chamber. However, what I forgot to mention in this previous part, it is in no way possible to seduce those institutions of our institution that were established with very clear public powers in any way belong to the Croatian agricultural chamber. So our concentration in this section is certainly on those services in the advisory section and in the livestock centre which can be under the most direct influence of Croatian farmers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60456	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Kolar on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60457	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Let me first, however, look back on agriculture and the current moment in agriculture from the point of view of HSS and general thinking about what this agriculture should be, and clearly in this context, the agricultural chamber that would serve farmers is their service. We all know that on the world market there is no balance between the dynamics of the market economy, social integrity and environmental responsibility, nature close but also by nature destroying the way production competes directly and mutually and precisely against established ideas and concepts. Since the early 1990s, we have remembered worldwide politics and the economy as a government of neoliberalism. From one economic direction of thinking, it has become unthinkable ideology and everything that does not fit, and so in agriculture in this time, the spiritual main road is in a difficult position. This is also true for science and politics, and also for agriculture, it felt that way. That is why the Croatian peasant has been existentially affected by this wave of neoliberalism because he does not focus on the standards that fit these spiritual provisions. We're talking about money, it's all about capital, and we're not really thinking about existence, people, landscape and everything. And as we are now all in this society turn and we must adapt, me and HSS are thinking that we Croatian society, however we take, must build on our own and do so directly from the ground. We must train Croatian society to act autonomously, in our own way according to the highest contemporary civilization movements. What am I talking about? I'm saying that we don't just have to paint everything on the outside, accept it and become ours, but fight that what's autonomous remains autonomous, that these are our values, and as such we impose on everyone around us. Therefore, in order to be part of the home European continent, the Croatian State must have a vision of the future as a general good. To meet the individual’s needs for personal, spiritual and material prosperity, all clear in the environment with other countries of the home continent. It's our imperative, I already said, to speed up the adjustment process. The village is the constant in Croatian history that has given its characteristics, defended, preserved throughout our history Croatian people's identity, language and culture and Croatian living space itself because the village has a special national value for us that exceeds agriculture itself because its foundations are home and family. And out of these foundations grows meaning for honesty and morality, justice and work, faith, harmony and beauty of life. The peasant puts the country and family first, but it is difficult to discuss with a society that is dominated only by materialism under the cover of globalisation, modernism, because of these values there is no responsibility for the village, its structure and, as I said, the protection of nature. Therefore, it is a basic rule for farmers, as well as for logic, that an eco-social market economy that protects the environment in an ecological sense, and in terms of social equality of co-existence between peace and culture, where it aims to achieve good for an individual as a person and for the benefit of a common good in order to achieve a fair and rich society. That is why people should not be afraid of baukoma but to design a strategy so that it guarantees agricultural production by entering the European Union, where we will guarantee our identity, where we will preserve the customs, faith and tradition of the area where we have lived for centuries and where we have shown that such production can also live with dignity. Of course, to strive for a better one. Why is it important for peasants to discuss problems together? That these problems are not pushed under the carpet and that such thinking must be accepted by the Resistant Ministry, clear and government? If agriculture is an important economic branch, then it aims to develop into an economic health, perspective, above all human interest and to become the main economic activity of rural areas. It must maintain not only an economic aspect of the adjustment, but also a factor in maintaining a culture of landscapes or landscapes. The multifunctionality of agriculture is achieved through a series of non-refundable social tasks and market-undefined, environmentally-bearable, generation-responsible, consistent and environmentally sound. And in line with the soil, natural resources and what's important is ownership-oriented and multi-structured. That is why eco-social standards based on the principles of Christian social science located in the core of a socio-political system that seeks to achieve a balance between free market, social justice and environmental responsibility. All of this I am saying that applying these principles would achieve the safety of rural production as the most important European goods and would protect rural space as a value and a home where sustainability is coordinated in all areas of economic activity. It is therefore important to establish a agricultural chamber with the objectives of such chambers in European countries. In order to have expert institutions to monitor the situation, propose solutions, especially in the area of agricultural development, the food industry, lead education policy, the needs of employees, etc. Therefore, the basic tasks of the agricultural chamber stemming from this Act should be on the one hand as an institution which would provide for farmers on the other hand and those engaged in agricultural production as a painless adjustment to all agricultural holdings where the trends of agricultural food prices would be brought into line with the international market. It should be a fundamental task of the agricultural chamber to mitigate the negative consequences of trade liberalisation. As much as we want to deal with this policy right now, we need to find instruments to protect domestic agricultural production, even in spite of some disdain for our environment. For example, we keep saying that there are no exceptions, that we have to go to Europe when we set up a system to one level to raise the contracts, guarantee the price through the loan, guarantee the placement, I think that this whole environment around us has done nothing but function but prefer domestic production and bargaining in a competition outside its environment. So under the cover of convenience, it's said we don't have any space here. We have a huge space we just need to know how to come up with direct support, not causing Europe and our similar neighbours who are protecting their economy in the same way, especially in agriculture. Increase the competitiveness of domestic production, improve the structure of the economy. It's only one of the measures and as a declaration. However, we have not done much here except by helping capital investments in family economies, and the integration here is one of the possible institutional integrations of farmers and such economies where a joint appearance through a directly elected member of the assembly, or as said by the professional organisations, could affect such direct incentives and precisely for rounding or for capital investments. How to ensure an adequate level of budget support in agriculture and in line with the proportion of support in the countries of the European Union? To fight and to propose as a professional organisation to the ministry, the Government to ensure in the same way that funds are provided in this Parliament beyond politicisation or beyond the influence of these or those. Simply paint a model, give yourself a task and secure the funds. Someone says they don't have enough. The funds are always gone, they're just misaligned. We need to have political will, and the goal of the funds is then to set up. We need to complete the privatisation process of agricultural land, and we need professional help and this service, which will be a Chamber of Agriculture and its experts directly, not from the road, and not from other places in the process, so that we must especially create recognizable products with market advantage and added value. We're talking about brand, it's a hit, but as far as we're involved, and how much we're helping to identify our product. In particular, the tax system allows for adjustment of value added tax, reduction of rates or other incentives. We must ensure the gradual adjustment of the transitional periods to the necessary reform changes in agricultural policy by defining different programmes for large and small agricultural producers, i.e. commercial and non-commercial households, which help maintain an appropriate level of income from agriculture. It's already been said at the first of our dealings with 130 and some family households, there's not 400 of them. The question is how many of those who have lived since agriculture are not living but living, and they have no possibility of enrolling or any help from the state, and they have simply left themselves a spark and wait for them to simply physically leave the country and what they have. We must protect agricultural producers, in fact consumers from the safety and quality of products. These are the basic tasks that the Agricultural Chamber must impose as an institution and have on the other side of the hearing, have partners by solving these problems. I have this 20th so I don't shoot all that arsenal now, I have to resort to thinking that institutionally we have to make progress, finally the law has given us this task because I'm a participant of civil adhesion or civil society where associations have to fight for their rights in a way that is already regulated, partly dissatisfaction, dynamic payouts, etc. I think this is a real attempt where, by one selective work, it means by systematic selection, Mr. Širac has already told the border organisation, so the congregation's choice, and when this agricultural chamber is formed, then each of the agricultural producers is a family household, legal and physical person because they have a company, a firm, a craftsman, or so on, they can have an impact on a agricultural policy that has to act on the other side and the needs and direction of agricultural policy against the needs of time, people who are engaged in this agriculture, and that I have already said to the satisfaction of all those who must live and be satisfied with it. Well, here I think it's unnecessary to say that in front of the HSS club, we actually want to contribute to one order, one progress in making talks, negotiations, and also agricultural policy in an institutional way, clearly that we are willing to participate in the adoption and creation of this law in a positive way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60458	Thank you. HSP club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60459	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. The Croatian Party of Rights Club supports the appearance of today's Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber at the debate in the Assembly, because what is the position of Croatian agriculture, Croatian farmers, means peasants, fishermen, wartimers are well known to all of us today. The situation is becoming more and more difficult from day to day, worse and worse, especially if Croatia is entering the European Union, negotiations are being held, if something is not correct for this period there will be no more power to be done, the situation will be even more difficult and worse. The first thing I have to look back on behalf of the Croatian Party club is this government opinion. In fact, on 19 January 2006, the Government gave its first opinion on the proposal of this HSS Club Act, and that is also the opinion of what you will be telling us what we should do, we will do it, it is not questionable at all, and then, behold, on 22 March 2006, the Government said after it received further information and knowledge it changed its opinion. It seems to me that, in the Croatian Party club, the right to know how the tractors are headed towards Zagreb, and imagine that tractors can drive 100 kilometers per hour, and not 30 laws would already be in place today, would be in place today. Therefore, it is only one thing that good proposals from the opposition ranks should be taken constructively and seriously and there is no reason not to accept something in the first reading, and then normally because the government has a completely different structure than we clubs here, that from all points of view they will consider and give the best solutions. This is the part that the Croatian farmer and Croatian worker and Croatian pensioner and defender and youth expect, means the part about how and how they should work and how they should act. And now what is the situation in the area of agriculture, we instead of being a country of food exporters, and according to natural potentials and possibilities we can certainly feed 20 million inhabitants, and we can't according to this, according to the balance of agricultural products of imports and exports, we can't eat 4 and a half million. We have become a country of food importers, agricultural products, the best example for you in the field of tourism is to import for tourism purposes, meaning agricultural, food products, food somewhere around 70%. What we're not importing today is probably all you know well, we're importing today and, say, bones, and hay, and straw, bumblebee, it's a well-known thing to import bumblebees from the Netherlands and it's for pollinating Croatian tomatoes. The price for the former government was 13.5 kuna per bumblebee, 50 is in the hive, now the price is 14.5. We're also importing flowers. Do you know where the flowers are coming from? From Israel. We import 50m euros in flowers every year. Therefore, all governments have so far taken care of the Croatian peasant that he could get everything, only had to have money. Therefore, it is really high time to think seriously about the situation in Croatian agriculture and in order to seriously consider it, we have to go and this is a good way to go. So, the first thing that is most important is that we finally do one country-wide balance that Croatia needs in what quantities and then sees exactly who will produce it and the peasant who produces it, which is this chamber that should have this role to sell to at which price and then the issue of incentives and everything else would go. It's supposed to be the system part. And then, normally, and that part of the Croatian bank that will recognise the interest of Croatian farmers and not foreign banks that will recognise the interest of these imports. For example, today your army eats Croatian beans from China. The garlic and onions eat from Hungary and Bulgaria, cans from Japan. I mean, it's such a huge problem. I'm just saying all kinds of data that'll give you enough of that. So now, what's going on here? We hope that this chamber of agriculture will not be like an economic chamber because the economic chamber has become its purpose. She also played a role in agriculture. And when I say "economic chamber", I have to automatically commit to Croatian diplomacy. So, as the Chamber of Commerce has become a purpose for itself, Croatian diplomacy has become a purpose for itself, because Croatian diplomacy is the one that needs to be promoted outside Croatian products, should promote Croatian products and enable them to place Croatian products on the side of the market. And now, look, we have a case of, say, the Ambassador of the former Drago Buchar, who dealt with everything and everything except what was meant to be. And do you know, let's say, a kilo of beef in Japan is $90, an apple is $60, a shakedown of $120. You know what these prices are! Oh, he's into it instead of promoting it, he's into everything and everything. So the most important situation is whether we have in the embassies, the representations of our diplomatic agricultural advisers, means the economics that will promote that part of what's most important. It is not only important in diplomacy to appear at various gatherings, occasions in factions, but diplomacy must be in the function of Croatian agriculture, Croatian production and everything else. I don't have the intention of talking any longer. The situation is such that it is finally time to take the right, effective measures because if we do not do so for a period of time until we enter the European Union afterwards, unfortunately we will not be able to do anything more. So, we gather forces, put Croatian agriculture on our feet, and make it possible to export food rather than import food. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60460	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative of Zeljko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60461	I am correcting my colleague Kovacevic's inaccuracies that Croatia can feed 20 million. Yes, Croatia has the resources to feed 20 million people, but Croatia cannot do so until the government has created for it the preconditions for producers and people to be able to achieve it and Croatia now that it stands with the agricultural situation cannot feed 20 million because it is a fragmented land, agricultural land owned by state property is undivided, nothing is working on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60462	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60463	Since you're not Mr. President, I'll have to. The esteemed colleague injured Article 209. He was correcting my opinion. This is a replica, not a correction to an incorrect quote. And so, you should have given him a warning according to Article 214. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60464	Comrade Kovacevic, we have the same situation with you hundreds of times. The representative makes a correction to the incorrect allegations by yours and he corrects the incorrect allegations, arguing that one claim is yours incorrect. And you react with a breach of the Rules of Procedure and claim that it is an incorrect and incorrect claim by the MPs who corrected the incorrect allegations. You can't do that and it's not a breach of the rules of procedure. This is the correction of an incorrect quote in line with the one that Kurt's representative made, not the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60465	The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60466	The board won't deal with it because you're doing it permanently. Dear Representative Pasecky, here's a correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60467	I would only correct Mr Kovacevic Pera's allegations because it is not true that the government changed its position because of the burning of tractors in Slavonia because it was not at all the subject of the debate between the Croatian Government and the Association of Farmers.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60468	Club of representatives of HSU respected representative Josip Sudec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60469	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to discuss the previous issue. So I'm not against specialized chambers, but I remember for a long time, so I know what those chambers looked like, I know what they were doing, and I know what they're doing today. However, in order to establish something, we need to see what we have. We have a chamber system representing the national economy. We have a chamber system that employs 700 workers of whom 55% has high professional equipment and have a certificate. If we are not satisfied with their work and their organization, then we would do well to discuss what we have, how is it organized, and what should be changed or created something new? That's, the chamber system has always been a para-state system. Politics has determined his organization, his work, his funding and his mandatory or optional membership. Basic or controversial what is in the Chamber today is the financing of the chamber because through mandatory membership they themselves determine how high the contributions will be but already the obligation of the economic operators to lead to a certain one, that is the state's determination, that is not ours. We must whether we are satisfied or not be content with that chamber system. However, this chamber system has already established its organisation in Brussels and for the next 4 years as it stands, or God forbid it is less, that we will enter sooner. They will represent the entire Croatian economy in the European Union. But now the question is, what are they doing in the area? As far as I'm concerned, there's a group that represents everything that we now propose to the new Agricultural Chamber Act. It seems that something in this organization, the way it works and the results doesn't satisfy economic operators. It would be good if we had a survey today, so I think it was conducted in the chamber system whether the economic operators are satisfied or dissatisfied with what they have now? I'm not convinced that this chamber is working very well, but I'm not even convinced that everything in that chamber is not good. I know that both regional chambers and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce are fighting for certain interests, represent the interests of economic operators and I know that they have a certain impact on both the ministries and the Government and the Parliament. Whether their influence is enough and whether it's too deep to talk about it today. Secondly, do we need a farming chamber like you suggest or go to what Sweden is doing? He's got a farm agency. Isn't the agricultural agency something that should replace the agricultural chamber? Then, and why not think about not prescribing the obligation of association, rather than going to one mixed system, that certain entities that are crucial may be required and that others be voluntary. To create a mixed system from which one mixed system of financing of that chamber would come out. But do we hide that chamber again as a para-state system or do we put it in part on the market? What I understand from my reasoning is part of this agricultural chamber should also be financed on the market. Isn't the agency more appropriate in that sense? Then a development and export strategy. If the development and export strategy is now being implemented in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, then we should see what part and under what conditions will it be carried out in the agricultural chamber and what kind of information will the Croatian Chamber of Commerce be compared to the agricultural chamber? That you will not be in a worse position than you are now a group in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce? And in the end we will support the establishment of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber. We believe that experts from the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Ministry and the entire mind should be included here to create something that would be more effective tomorrow than the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. Well, if it's a farm agency, then let's decide on it. So we will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60470	Thank you. Proposer, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60471	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, maybe here's just a few sentences. I think a fellow judge has raised one question that I think needs to be explained. It wouldn't be good if it stayed in the air. Today we have a Croatian Chamber of Commerce and within it a certain section dealing with agriculture and I have to say extremely high-quality people there who do their part of the job maximum. However, we need to know very clearly here that there are no people in that part who, who should be within the family agricultural economies and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, are at the maximum, and in a very good way, taking care of large entities. Legal entities. Those who are objectively in the food and processing industry. When this whole law was made, and when it was debated three and four years ago, we made it very clear. In Croatia, the economic chamber remains part of the sector that is the food-processing industry and of course has its own interests which cannot possibly be the same with those of the primary agricultural producers. And of course our thinking in this part is that no business subject can be excluded at all, not a single legal person who has clearly decided to direct himself into primary agricultural production. So the Croatian Chamber of Agriculture will clearly represent the interests of family farms, natural legal persons dealing with primary agricultural production, fisheries and forestry. And there is a clear division made compared to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. So this overlap is certainly not going to happen, but normally these two chambers will certainly work together in the future on those common interests, but now institutional powers will be, I would say, conflicting where interests are conflicted. Because I believe that a colleague agrees that primary production, primary production and processing industry are sometimes in conflict. Of course, in primary production, we want as much price as possible and those in the processing industry to buy their raw materials at as little cost as possible. The conflict is immediately evident in that section. But in order to protect one another, I think it is necessary in this way to establish a Croatian agricultural chamber. Establishing a way might not be clear enough. We are now aware that a large number of different associations, different I would say representatives of interest, primarily family farms. But the relevant real agent who would have these interests I would have said was interested in analyticalally and was one co-rapporteur to the government as well, but according to Brussels today, because the conversation is over every day, I don't think we have one. The Croatian Agricultural Chamber, within its institutions, would give us this, I assure you that today we have Croatia's agricultural chamber would certainly be stronger and more ready for what is yet to come after screening, and these are negotiations with the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60472	Thank you. At 11 and 16 it was time for an individual debate. The club of HSLS MPs, the respected deputy president, Đurđa Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60473	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, this kind of debate is certainly necessary, perhaps not even narrow, just about opening the Chamber's question. Keeping an eye on the data we have. It's that 45% of the population lives in the rural area. Croatia is, the fact is that we have too few vital and market-oriented economies that deal with competition, but also imports that are constantly being warned by the Baby Bifa association. Of course, we need to discuss the weak controls that exist when importing, as well as an interesting geographical picture when you look at only the problem of meat imports. If you look at where this meat is produced then you will see that it is the northern part of Croatia. If you look at where the slaughterhouses are then you will see that it is the southern part of Croatia. It's a phenomenon I can't explain. I hope some explanation will arrive sometime. Is there a little softer border somewhere, or a little less sensitivity? That's the problem someone's gonna have to answer someday. This government, that government, or some third government. The fact is, unfortunately, tourists, both domestic and foreign last summer did not eat meat produced in Croatia or ate little, ate much more meat from Poland and Brazil, which is confirmed. Well, let's get to the law. The founding of the Agricultural Chamber, therefore an open issue in the area of agriculture, is therefore wider than the creation of a single body, which is good. However, we must ask what is the goal other than open questions. It is definitely clear that there are good intentions, which is to improve the system of institutional support, i.e. an independent professional organisation. So the goal is set well. And that should be the first institutional step. However, we must say what would be the real first step in making these noble intentions real. If this is the direction of agricultural policy, the improvement of agricultural standards, the necessary preparation for the European Union, we could certainly all reach consensus there. We think it's necessary and that he's late. But there's an open question here that no one can deny, but no one's leading, no one's offering any answers. Therefore, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce also has in its description a part of the agricultural business that has definitely not been done. Otherwise, we wouldn't be talking about this today. I'm going to repeat the data that many people don't like, but it's inconclusive, which is that in the Chamber of Commerce, it works twice as many people as the Ministry of Economy. It's a little harder for me to figure out what for some of them. If you look at the pay average and their responsibility, then you'll really see that we might have a chamber too, at least the way it is. But what we will surely be concerned about is the data that in that chamber work on average young people, educated people, highly educated people, people who speak several languages, of course informatively educated. And now the question is, what's wrong? So, we have to, if we make a decision to go to the Agricultural Chamber, which would be the implementation of existing laws, and if that chamber takes over solving the problems that we've opened up here, then we need to see where we're going to find people, whether it's going to be a new job, or if it's going to be a new administration, even if it's capable of young people, or not. So we should find a guarantee that we don't want another dysfunctional chamber. I think it's more important. Otherwise, the intentions are perfectly fine. It's not a matter of proposing. It's an institution that needs to be taken care of. A good model is quite certain to put a chamber on the market. But then that goes for the Chamber of Commerce. So let's make arrangements for each other to go out on the market. And I have a very concrete proposal. If we didn't have nearly 700 people in HGK, then why not 500 in the Agricultural Chamber. Do you know how many people they're going to need to pay and that money from more taxes and contributions? If they were to justify that money then that would be fine. So we need to see if there are people in the existing institutions who could only change jobs. And I assure you that they would change it, that they would be more efficient, that they would give results on the market if it wasn't a mandatory contribution. If everyone had to run a private company, make sure they had the results. And I agree with a fellow judge who spoke. Let's see what's the best solution. The question has been asked well. The goal is well set, but we're going to go to another or later to figure out which guarantees are that we don't get a new inefficient chamber that will have to pay the contribution again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60474	Thank you. SDP club, respected representative Mato Arlovic, vice president of the House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60475	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. We of the SDP Representatives Club will support this bill in the first reading although we believe that until the second reading should make additional efforts to improve it quantitatively and qualitatively and work to be in the final line of conduct. We've got to do it before, first of all, say it like that. Why would they support a bill like this? Because there should be one form of an interesting association of our agricultural producers that would not be related only to large agricultural entities, registered agricultural entities that are members of the Chamber of Commerce. And in such a segment should specialize in this institution, but should also be done on the principles that it should be the expression and expression of the stable forms of cooperatives and the integration of not only registered entities but also cooperatives and these small agricultural producers in the chamber. In this respect, we are immediately asking a substantive question, whether it is good to prescribe compulsory association in the agricultural chamber, or whether it should be linked to volunteering, of course, with the interest that arises for each agricultural producer in this context. The second question in this respect is, as usual, for the agricultural chamber, the economic agricultural chamber, which is that if Article 43 is interpreted. The constitution then guarantees everyone the right to free association. Free association itself implies that it could not be mandatory. So we would have to have the content of jobs and tasks that will also be carried out by the agricultural committee, which will motivate farmers to join freely and voluntarily, not to join as mandatory entities in the agricultural chamber. In this context, I say that the need for a mandatory establishment of an economic chamber, not just those that are now being proposed, is also in question. The second problem that arises is the chamber’s tasks and when we have done a comparison of these tasks that are numbered in the said chamber text in Article 8. then they are actually taken on the basis of experiences of French, most Austrian and German, but also a little bit from the French agricultural chamber. However, there is a very serious question. It is also referred to in Article 1 as to the exercise of public authority, as is also said in Article 9 that the chamber exercises public powers in accordance with the law and regulations and is now asking the question which are. According to the Constitution of Article 116, public powers must be explicitly laid down by law. Therefore, from these tasks listed here and perhaps some others, it is necessary to classify those tasks and powers which have the character of public authority when, in the name of and for the account of their members or members of natural and legal persons, the agricultural chamber comes from the unknown issues of education, requalification, pre-qualification, pre-qualification, research... etc. etc. to count what these are and to carry out the tasks carried out as public powers and to prescribe them by law so that there is no doubt, not only of the constitutional aspect, but also of their relationship with the authorities, bodies of the unit of local and regional self-government, and in this context, that issue should be further elaborated. The third thing we would like to see is the question that, in accordance with the Law on Institutions, it is possible to differentiate members and in this respect, it is also a matter of differentiation here to be mandatory members of the chamber which are practically registered in the register of producers and that they may be voluntary members of the chamber. However, it is not now worked out what voluntary members of the chamber can have, what their rights, obligations and ultimately the responsibilities are. This must be prescribed in the law so that the statute could be further developed for a simple reason because these members should, as far as they are otherwise referred to in substance, have some different powers and responsibilities, but must not in any way be challenged by their rights under the Constitution of Article 38 in which they are explicitly spoken for which they can be organised in an interest association or association. In order to achieve what is written here, to protect their breakthroughs or to take up social, economic, political, national, cultural and other beliefs and goals. Now it will obviously be about social and economic issues, not likely to talk about national etc. which is quite clear, but it should still be a little elaborated and seen now in which segment the minimum prescribed is related to these two categories, if any, to these two categories. Of course if you would accept the thesis that you would... Voluntary and free association, then in this context certainly the situation is something different than when it is prescribed that it is mandatory. [[You don't understand.]] Of course, this in itself becomes the opposite if, on the one hand, we say the chamber is an independent business organisation, it could be difficult to say that it is a business organisation, it is also a business organisation but it is not only a business organisation, the other is not independent if at the same time it is obliged to the state, because you know as soon as you press or prescribe that the state can and from the budget finance an entity then it, that entity has certain obligations and must have certain obligations in relation to the spending of budgetary resources from the fact that the State's audit is controlling them and in this respect it gets both the character of one part and the administrative organisation and therefore the issue, regardless of what concept is now to be adopted, should be developed and determined to be done and to see which part of it is independent, and in which part, in relation to budgetary and not only budgetary means, but also the supervision of the legality of the work that is seen here, and in particular, in particular, in particular, the aspect of the choice of the chamber, agriculture, agriculture, forestry, forestry and water and liability, which are actually. The fifth group of issues that we are opening here are questions about the position of local self-government units in relation to the chamber. You know, the state can legislate itself, so let's notify the chamber, etc. But here says they are obliged to inform the chamber and units of the regional (regional) self-government, and now it is very interesting to interpret it from the aspect of the Constitution. If, among other things, the Constitution guarantees the units of local self-government that they are not dependent on either state or state, it is said that in the Republic of Croatia, the state authority is governed by the division of government, legislative, executive and judicial powers, and is limited by the Constitution guaranteed the right to local and regional (regional) self-government. Under the Constitution, there are no rights and obligations of local self-government according to this chamber, and why would it have to do with agriculture or any other. The second issue is the interest of the citizens of the unit of local self-government and related to this interesting structure that could create an organisational interest structure that could create joint work. Therefore, there should be no need to discuss duties here, but the law should lay down possible common interests in which local self-government units should be co-operated and co-operated with agricultural producers in their territory which are tied to the chamber. That team more you should avoid... agricultural chambers. Here comes the model that actually applies now to the Chamber of Commerce if we had a state-level agricultural chamber and then each county would have one chamber. I think it is completely unnecessary and that it should be discussed either at the level of statistical regions or in the natural historical regions so that we do not know the agricultural chamber for Slavonia and Baranja, for central Croatia, I do not know about the area of Like and Kordun, for the area of Dalmatia, Istria, Kvarner, etc. Because it is simply too expensive a cost that will fall and, in particular, an administration that will actually be created should not happen to turn an interested association into an administrative administrative body that will actually carry out some law enforcement tasks rather than the interest and promotion of the interest of agricultural producers, and in this respect we want to draw attention to that fact immediately. Of course, in this context, the issue of the very seat of the chamber is specifically raised. Is it worth talking about that the agricultural chamber should have its headquarters in Zagreb if it is clear that more than two-thirds of the agricultural and food system is located in the area of Slavonia. I think at least there should be one form of decentralisation now, if we go to the establishment of this chamber, and the deconcentration of the authorities and bring it closer to those who are in the space that will use them. Of course, when it comes to this part of Article 5, we appeal once again to consider the possibility not to set up chambers in all counties but at least in statistical regions, if not the other. We are specifically opening the issue of financing the chamber where it is said, in practice, that the resources needed to carry out its tasks are derived from the state budget. No, no, the first paragraph must come from membership fees and contributions from their associations. It can't be out of the budget because then it becomes a administrative organisation to an interesting association of its members. The second question is to discuss this in the constitution, and this is a question that needs to be discussed now that the first elections, the first constitution, that these costs are borne by the states because there are no members yet, are not yet lined up, etc. This, then, needs to be resolved in transitional and final provisions, but the first sources of income must be membership fees, must be the contributions of their members and, of course, the performance of their activities. As a special contribution, there may also be contributions that will be made in proportion to their opportunities, not to their obligations as legal ones. The state budget and then the local self-government units, depending on the interests they will have through the agricultural chamber. We need to point out another important thing. In no way would it be good to have all the tasks of selecting the constitution and first convocation of the chamber, the chamber assembly and the selection of the chamber bodies carried out by the ministry, or better said only the agriculture and forestry ministry. It should be the bearer of the task, but it should be and must include interesting forms that will be joined and which in the end line will actually form that chamber. This law requires the possibility of establishing a chamber and we form it in some way by law, but these people need to be members. They should therefore, at the time of the establishment and during the whole process, participate in particular the development of the chamber programme and its joint performance. In this respect, Articles 34, 35 and 35 relating to the acquisition of practical property are not sufficient. Because this Law also contains the acquisition of the property of the future chamber, by taking over some of the state property and property of companies, such as the Croatian cattle centre, part of the property that would, in some ways, be executed. This would actually be one form of nationalisation, it's about companies and in this respect the situation needs to be considered. Is this how we can accept it? The second question is that we need by law to tell where the property is acquired or what property will be used until the property of the agricultural chamber is acquired for the work of the agricultural chamber. But I don't think we could go to the law to prescribe that free companies like the Croatian cattle centre, for example, are simply reshaping by law and we shut it down, etc. What about the shareholders, what about the assembly, what about all the other stuff? It seems to us that in a situation like this, you need to examine and see what kind of model you can find by the time you read it. It's not enough to prescribe that work and rights and obligations will be taken over, and employees, you know, in those services. But you should actually see how and how to open the space and that these services and these companies can be involved. So if their congregation decides they can reshape, but that doesn't mean they have to. They must be members of the chamber, but they don't have to leave their property, etc., etc., to that chamber. In this respect, this should be considered in particular and determined in which way these issues should be resolved. A special matter we want to draw attention to, the chamber should begin on 1 January 2007. On the basis of the funds which, and until then, would work after the assembly was established, of course, and held elections, etc., on the basis of the funds to be allocated from the budget. This basically means that we should still have some small budget rebalance or from a mandatory reserve to secure the funds, I don't even know, by the government, but that should be prescribed. And should be prescribed when the entry into force of this Act is expected. At least there, I don't know if it's the 1.9th of this year, so that the time of playing and preparing for the full operation of the chamber is that 3 months because it's actually kind of a vaccio legion. Not this Law but the beginning of action so that the future members and interested entities of that same chamber could be prepared accordingly and see what their interests are. Now, the most interesting thing is that the government will make electoral rules within 60 days of the entry into force of this law. Now the question is, what's the chamber? The entry into force of the Law is established by a chamber because it is established by a chamber. The Chamber should have its own bodies and it would not be good for the Government to prescribe electoral rules but would have to form a body in the chamber of interested entities that will establish electoral rules, and the Government must provide the means to conduct the elections and enable that autonomy to be ensured. Otherwise it'll turn out to be a state body, and that's a very, very complex question. That is why we warn that until the second reading, which is why we said that we should, in terms of scope and content, further supplement the Law. We support him in principle. Of course, we are willing to cooperate ourselves with the amendment or in another way to get as high - quality legislation as possible to resolve this issue. But some of these questions need to be further discussed in content, including in principle and in detail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60476	Proposer, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60477	Mr. President, here I am at the end of this debate on behalf of the clubs I want to thank everyone who spoke on behalf of the representatives of the clubs at support, I would say, and for an extremely constructive debate. I think we're all aware that this law that's been made is an initiative, and we all agreed with it that we should continue to support it. And I believe that, here's the second reading, together with the government, we'll come up with the best solutions. Maybe this is where you should say, those things that are mentioned as certain problems. Here, the distinguished representative and Vice-President Djurdja Adlesic mentioned problems with the employees. Our idea here is very clear, that without additional administration, without any unnecessary employment from existing resources should do everything necessary for the Croatian agricultural chamber. Because we are fully aware that even today some outposts or county chambers, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, are almost working. I'll just say an example of Osijek. A complete part of the work he'll be doing in the future. How will this agreement be dealt with in the future with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce I think it will be in everyone's interest that those people who are already at their disposal, and taking care of future certain considerations become employees in the Croatian Chamber of Agriculture, especially when we add the existing employees of the advisory service and the livestock centre then we certainly have a sufficient number of already existing ones that we do not need to burden in the future with new employment. This problem mentioned by the distinguished Vice President, Mr Arlovic, concerning the position of municipalities and cities, and I would say the unit of regional self-government in relation to this Law. We agree that it may be necessary to regulate further to say from this constitutional basis in that part, but I will be very specific about the problem. We all speak loudly today, we have, I would say one single political position related to the privatisation of agricultural state land. Agricultural state land is carried out by municipalities and cities in that first part that if they fail, then they are only the turn of the county. If a certain organisation and if we now had a Croatian agricultural chamber that could in one institutional way affect these municipalities and cities and create that part of them would not happen to us, those conflicts and those problems that we have in the field today, I would say part of the problems in which there is not enough cooperation, and then there remains what is fundamentally that there is still no privatisation of the agricultural state land, that we are still dealing with the problem that we all have to come to terms with together, which is a reduced family agricultural holding which, if we do not do so in due time, will certainly not be competitive enough for what is before us, which is the European Union. I also agree that membership is the number one, but when we talk about sources of funding, we are guided by the guide that in the first part the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the state budget in that part, because it is clear that in the first time there will certainly not be enough funding and that this is one obligation for which enough money must be found in the budget itself. I would like to finally say once again that I think that this Law is here with all your support something that is necessary right now, which in one institutional way will allow us not to happen certain things that we have witnessed and these days that until there is one grouping of all those associations that are dealing with this problem then and we do not have enough power to approach one real solution within institutions that would be permanent, which would not be like certain negotiations that are always being conducted, which here are almost like fire extinguishing, something urgent, and they do not have one continuous battle for those issues that are particularly important to Croatian agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60478	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Dear representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60479	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. So the Croatian Parliament under pressure from the dissatisfaction of peasants and their protests in 1995 brought the first strategy for the development of agriculture. In addition to the formally adopted strategy, no other activities were taken to encourage the development of this significant economic branch. Dissatisfaction culminated in 1999 in famous protests when more than 300 thousand peasants were estimated by the media on the roads at the time. Following the guidelines of the new government programme, which assessed agriculture as a strategic economic branch with great potential in 2001, the Croatian Parliament adopted a Agricultural Law which will take certain political and agrarian measures to remove obstacles, create effective agriculture in the Republic of Croatia. The opposition at the time objected to the law that it was principled and it is true, it is principled, but it outlines the guidelines of agricultural policy that have become binding on each government in the form of legislation regardless of the political option it represents. The law is binding until it is amended or put out of force. It outlines the objectives of agrarian policy, from which food security should be set out... mainly from domestic production, promotion of production efficiency, the provision of adequate living standards and the contribution to the stability of agricultural income, as well as the preservation and progress of rural areas and rural values. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The basic production unit is defined as a family holding. The objectives set out were binding on it, but they also oblige this current government to create conditions for the peasant to produce competitive products by earning income for an appropriate standard of living. The stability of agricultural income guarantees the survival of farmers who employ family members in their family economy. In order to achieve the task set by law, it was necessary to create conditions for their encircling, they needed to be provided with agricultural land because the average of 2 and a half hectares at that time could not be produced competitively. This led to the adoption of the Agricultural Land Act and the criteria for the privatisation of agricultural land. A new Agriculture Development Strategy has been adopted. I'm sorry to start the privatisation process of agricultural land stopped. This has also stopped the process of rounding up family economies and the development of agriculture as a whole, but the process of adapting peasants to join the European Union has been halted. Over 300 municipalities have developed available programmes, but have encountered a silence of state bureaucracy over the past two years that did not give them consent, but did not refuse them. There were no better luck than those municipalities who received agreement on the programmes three years ago, but in the last two years they could not get the consent to conduct the competition. Overall, the process of creating competitive family economies as the bearer of agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia has been halted. In order to produce, the farmer must have something to produce, he must know that the product will be able to sell, he must know about the price and get the money for the sale. The problem of the market hasn't solved the previous one, and neither has this government. All the infirmities of the state surrounding the organisation of the market indicate a case with the Shana cow. There is a black market in agriculture that can create "cow madness" for its breakthroughs, if necessary, but according to its movements, no serious production can be planned. The Agriculture Act has defined market-price policy by applying whose measures may affect market stability, but this requires will. It's obvious that the impact of commercial lobbies is much stronger than the manufacturer's. The producers are only spoken to under the threat of the tractor coming to Zagreb. The unsettled market has been joined by failures of incentives and state aids which are further reduced in some cultures and more than 50%. Since in the last two years there has been no debate in the Croatian Parliament on the state of agriculture using the right to ask parliamentary questions, we have pointed to problems with the purchase of milk and problems arising from the failure to pay off incentives. We were promised and assured that the incentives of the peasant are now being paid more than two years ago. We don't know who they're paying off, but accepting the peasant demands shows that our warnings were well established. I guess it's pretty clear now that agriculture has a lot of problems that I think need to be solved at the table and systematically prevent them from happening, although we can't get carried away with idealism that there won't be a problem. There will always be them because it's production under the clear sky. It is precisely because of the need for continued work on the development and promotion of and economic branches in Article 36 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The agricultural law provides for the establishment of a agricultural chamber to promote, protect and represent agricultural holdings and fishermen. I will be told that in Croatia there are a considerable number of different professional services, institutions and institutions directly related to agriculture production. This is true, but there is insufficient coordination, connection and communication between all of these services. In the interest of the faster development of agriculture and the adaptation of family agricultural holdings to market conditions, there is a need to establish the Chamber of Commerce as an independent business-professional organisation. Its purpose is to directly join the family farms as a farmer of agricultural production in a business-professional organisation and thus directly influence them on the creation of measures of agrarian policy, protection and representation of personal interests, business integration with the food industry, etc. all in order to combine common interests and uniform action in the establishment of a balance between the production, processing and consumption of agricultural products. I therefore support this Proposal for a Law on the Agricultural Chamber aimed at making the establishment and functioning of an institution where common problems would be considered more urgent, common positions would be adopted and the chamber would represent and represent the interests of all those who are members of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60480	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation of the respected representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60481	Thank you, Mr. President. It is incorrect to say and to say constantly that incentives do not increase but decrease. So the incentives are increasing both in absolute and relative terms over the last two years and this year they have increased compared to the previous year but the number of users of incentives has increased and the number of encouraged and culture has increased and in the stock fund, meaning the type of livestock, and there we are potentially coming up with individual charges per economy and culture. So total incentives are far greater than they were a few years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60482	Replica esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60483	Mrs. Lalic, I'm giving you a replica to give you a chance to explain. I think you've quite accurately listed the problems that agriculture, the agrarians even encounter with us. Unsettled market, purchasers, shoppers, shortsighted, failure to pay off incentives for which the State is guilty, unsecured buying-in by the state again, and in the tasks of Article 8, the tasks of the chamber are cited by the debate on the problem of agriculture, the development of a position, the monitoring of opportunities, the promotion of law-making, the promotion of coordination of assistance to follow-up, cooperation with institutions, the preservation of cultural heritage, the promotion and participation of peasants. So, one general goal. What I'm interested in is how many chambers would help a peasant solve these issues of an unsettled market, buyers, shoppers, failure to pay off incentives. How does that get the government to pay off their incentives neatly? She doesn't pay them off, we all know that. They're late, the peasants are falling apart. How can the chamber get the state to pay them back? How? Because in these tasks I don't see it but I don't see through the whole law instruments to make a peasant's life safer, simpler, more predictable.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60484	Reply to the replica of the respected representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60485	Well, dear fellow Stazic, it is really impossible to expect the agricultural chamber itself to solve what needs to be solved by the state. Unfortunately, even now that we are witnessing that the demands of peasants are accepted and if they are accepted means that they are justified. The villagers said they were not paid for the incentives, the peasants said their incentives were reduced by 50 percent and more. However, despite the government’s recognition and acceptance and promise to pay us even today at the Croatian Parliament, we hear that this is not true, how the incentives have increased, how this, as it were. And now imagine, we haven't discussed the problem of agriculture in the Croatian Parliament for two years, and the Agriculture Act says that the government has to submit a report once a year, a green report that would have been the report and based on it developed and held a debate on the state of agriculture. That is why we have a national programme in the Agriculture Act, which should also be discussed every year. So, if we are in a situation where the Government refuses to discuss this in the Croatian Parliament, then we need to have a chamber that will encourage them and that will speak and through which chamber the interests and attitudes of all its members will actually be united.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60486	Dear Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60487	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's interesting here how we speak politically again, and we're going back to those questions that we've solved, or which peasants have solved a few days ago. If such general satisfaction is in the agricultural sector, then there would probably be no tractors who wanted to go to Zagreb and probably wouldn't need the Government of the Republic of Croatia to sign an agreement with farmers' associations where it was defined to pay off in time, to pay them off in that amount, such as in the budget, to continue with the agricultural land reform. And finally, after an emergency procedure, an irrigation contribution should be lifted. See, that's exactly what happened. That's what got rid of it, but in an unorganized way. I, too, see this Proposal for a Law on the Agricultural Chamber as a mechanism so that farmers would not have to come to Zagreb with tractors but to come to buses as an organised group that would know what they want under the chamber programme and that would negotiate the biggest problems in agriculture. In this way, when it is done unorganised, when it is done by various groups and when threatened, when they are dealing with agriculture exclusively because of politics and at the same time they do not have heated ornaments, and they may not even have a tractor, it is all a single verse that is not needed in Croatia. We think the peasant should be organized. We believe that a peasant or a family agricultural economy or if we want to say farm or anything like that has to get an opportunity to articulate its needs but also to talk openly about problems with competent institutions. No one here has asked us why we don't have any representatives of peasants in the House Committee? We don't have a representative of the association, and of course probably because we don't even have a chamber. It is logical that the committees are the Chamber of Commerce, that they are inside the committees as permanent members and the Chamber of Commerce, but we do not have anyone to represent this large population still in Croatia with several hundred thousand people. Companies have an economic chamber. That's what craftsmen have. That's what lawyers, architects, foresters, musicians have to do, not to count who has everything and who doesn't, and they even have a register of electronic crafts. The cooperative register has also existed in electronic form for several years. In Croatia the only thing we have been talking about for decades, for example in connecting green and blue fields, we are talking about the need to organise a stock exchange of agricultural products, but we are just talking about nothing yet. We're also talking about a fish stock market that's supposed to be running soon, and when it gets rough, then we talk about incentives, then we protest and talk about a water contribution that's being abolished after 30 days. But one important issue that is also in these water fees, and it's called the irrigation fee, for the use of water called the melioration fee, is still in the government's regulation, so the cost of using water for irrigation is impossible to carry out irrigation, and only if we had it, if we could accidentally say that the irrigation project was realised by that dynamic as promised two years ago. So the theme of water compensation isn't over yet. Those who do fish production instead of 4 now have 6 basics and contributions to water compensation. We obviously didn't talk enough about agriculture here in the Parliament. The Green Report that was an obligation to discuss it seems to me that last year has not come to the agenda. I hope we'll meet him. And I would also like to see a report from the Food Agency that we started over a year ago, but it seems to me that it works on the basis of ficus and two, three employees at least in the media and anywhere else I don't notice that they do anything, so I'd be interested to know if they're thinking about any mechanisms to ban imports of non-quality food into Croatia especially to cover quality domestic production and that we don't have a balance sheet of agricultural products in negative, with a negative sign that weighs over $500 million for last year. There'll be more in this year. Should we be able to pass it on to this chamber and include public authority until the second reading? I think public authorities have some other chambers. In particular, they are important in vocational education and the education of farmers and this adult farmers is necessary and that would certainly be useful. I see this chamber as a body that will carry out further reforms in agriculture. We stopped there a little bit. The average farmer has three acres of land. Agricultural land and sales programmes have not been spent for a long time. For two years, it seems to me that none of the municipalities have implemented this project and we in the HSS are in favour of a simple model. In the process of joining the European Union, we would not want to prohibit foreigners from buying land, agricultural land for the next 15 years, but rather from allowing Croatian citizens who are engaged in agriculture to buy the land within the next two years. I'm sure there's something you should be able to say about that, too, about the agricultural chamber. There are issues and other preparations for entry into the European Union. The rise of vineyards, orchards, permanent plantations. It's a matter of agricultural quotas. It's a question of using pre-accession funds and the peasant is disorganized because there is no association through which he would know how to unite all these things. I ask myself and others whether or not it is appropriate for a peasant to be disorganized, and then the space opens up for others who are big, who are slightly monopolies and who, of course, are much simpler to reach out to information and who are much more accessible. I believe that the family agricultural economy has to be the bearer of primary production, but our role is to enable them to organize and discuss the issue we haven't talked about in a long time, which is a farm bank because the farmer still can't open the bank door or receive a quality loan that would allow him to modernise. The peasants must be a partner. Politics should not be engaged in agriculture solely for the sake of the voting body. Policy should deal with agricultural policy. This is one of the models that just in a professional way and that in an organised way we deal with agricultural policy rather than agriculture because of politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60488	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation of the respected representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60489	Yeah. I'm correcting probably Mr. Pacek's inconsequential allegations that there are no direct representatives of the peasants or those involved in the production. So that's not true. I know at least two highly esteemed men who deal with both warfare and livestock and even final production. Who do so within their economies or households and Mr. Kolar himself from your party in the end we have nothing less capable or better informed Mr. Fiolic on this side. Not to mention a number of people who are directly tied to the village and peasants and the business and everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60490	Come on, there'll be another explanation. Dear Representative Marko Širac, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60491	Mr. President Pecek said in his presentation that the irrigation of agricultural land in Croatia could not be developed, it could not be developed for irrigation fees. That's not true, of course. Watering fees have been in Croatian legislation for 10 years. They didn't pay, so here. And because they did not pay, irrigation in the Republic of Croatia did not develop.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60492	Proposer, honourable representative Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60493	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. So here on behalf of the promoter it is convenient to listen to the debate this way and these incorrect allegations etc. However, it would be good if we could impose a debate in this House when a problem arises in agriculture, if indeed, I were to appeal to the president, but also to the presidency, however, at the same time, to open a debate on possible problems by respecting them and not by accepting those participants who highlight these problems and sitting down with them at the table and discussing them. I have the privilege of being one of the participants in such talks and negotiations. They usually end up with the Prime Minister. The resolution ministers are like the basis, whether the vice president or vice president participate. And the talks are about the problem that's being pointed out. Now there were three conditional problems said and they tried to get rid of it. Otherwise, I believe that there are 303 agricultural problems that should be discussed in the same way and dealt with in the same way. Namely get to the resolution ministry, point out your problem, try to realistically show it, and this problem solves by talking not on the road, that's wisdom, I assure you, and it is our task to everyone who should know how to do it. But in order not to repeat such situations from month to month, I believe our spring seed is already here. It's time to harvest. We do not have 3 problems every month but 10 of them on the table and should be on one side all the time a negotiating team, on the other hand a good will to talk and to agree on the views and everything that belongs to us. That's why this HSS proposal goes in that sense. To institutionally consider that people who are professionally connected, interested in life’s problems have their own representatives in one way or another, it is already said more models, and that this agricultural chamber ultimately reflects the situation in society and protects all those from it, from this agricultural activity would live. I personally am an advocate more, better three days to negotiate than 1 hour or more to protest. However, rights that a farmer or a family agricultural household should be granted by law under the law. And when they disrespect each other, believe me, then that dissatisfaction must in some way escalate. Even with this kind of pressure that's been going on and the way it looked. It'd be nice, I'll take my own, let the president just let me, it'd be nice to see what kind of tractors are going through in Mark's square. And because there's a lot of them, they're big and they wouldn't pollute the environment. And I think we'd get political points for negotiations in Europe, because we'd see that we're a strong agricultural country, that we can produce, that we want to produce. But maybe we can arrange for someone else to do it that way. But we'd better come up with a agricultural policy, a farming chamber, than demonstrate it together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60494	And what will you do with tractors when the square is unearthed, St. Mark, when archaeological works are being done? ... We can do art... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60495	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm going to be a little relieved to get involved in this debate, because last night I also listened to the latest research on corruption in Croatian society. The parties turned out to be the most corrupt institutions. And I would like to encourage the new spirit of HSS with this humble discussion. In fact, for almost two years sitting in this House, I've seen sad people. They were always kind of silent, with their heads down, expecting what the leader of the party's authoritarian leadership would say, even though we knew intimately that they were competent in different areas, and very capable. Their intellectual, professional, or political potentials could not have been expressed. And in the last few days, they've lived. They have some initiative every day. Not only did they live, but they learned to run a pragmatic policy. You see, pragmatic policy has freed them from a prior coalition obligation to the left parties whom they do not wish to provide even symbolic support today, so they keep silent, and these are serious problems here. Thus, they raised the issue of craftsmanship the other day. Although Mr. President, in God's justice, you've given me an unfair warning, I mean, don't interrupt me, I'm angry as a dog. So I read a very carefully record and concluded that I was absolutely right and that you were absolutely wrong. So,
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60496	Let's stick to the subject, stick to the darkness.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60497	So, in my particular case, my theoretical belief is in conflict with my emotional proclivities. In the area of economic science several years ago, the first Nobel Prize for institutional economics was awarded. There would be, even a translated textbook of institutional economics and in Croatia little recognition of knowledge, theoretical knowledge about the organisation of institutions. The proposal for the establishment of a Croatian agricultural chamber in a normative sense was delayed 3 years, 4 years. And there goes the complaint to former Minister Pankretic, who may have been afraid he did not generally respect the decision of the Agriculture Act which obliged him to establish this Chamber after 2001. However, given my opening remarks, I can understand that. Furthermore, when it comes to the need to establish a Croatian agricultural chamber, it is not justified from the point of view of institutional economics. If the Croatian Chamber of Commerce satisfied the interests of Croatian peasants. However, Croatia's economic is an alienated chamber of bureaucratic almost show business institutions that underestimates peasants you know, and the peasants are now entitled to a public word and in that sense that the Croatian Chamber of Commerce is not a forced institution, and this is what Zdenka Chuhnil said, proposing a practical solution for this law, so that it should suggest that three years or maybe until the moment of accession to the European Union membership in this new chamber is mandatory, and after that it is voluntary and that membership fees paid by voluntary membership fees, then the leadership of that chamber as the Croatian Chamber of Commerce took a little more care of its clients, its members, the interests of these members. This is how we have the head of the chamber of a man who is allegedly the most sympathic and charming for middle-aged women, but he is constantly in the permanent de facto conflict of interest, because the current shareholder in Krasu. Therefore, I have always been, and when it comes to general organisation, it was for a unique engineering association, chambers, whatever you want, an association of communities can be called. However, this practically retrograde trend prevails to create specialist organisations instead of... organisations, large organisations. We hope that, on a long period of time, there will be unification or the tendency of unification under the law of the logic of institutional economics. I would suggest that colleagues from the HSS who are on a new flight go one step further, to be a little more aggressive. Croatian peasants or Croatian HSS is a major victim of both communism and post-Communism. Other large institutions have succeeded in restitutions, tycunizations, conversions to return much of the property, even a church that is largely converted into a real estate agency, and HSS has lost everything. I propose to the HSS to initiate the procedure of the restitution of the Croatian Ministry of Defence at present, and that this agricultural chamber be found there as a small part of this beautiful and beautiful building where the basic idea of the Radic brothers that united two ideas should be restored. The first was the modern education of the European range, for example the 1905 book of Stjepan Radić about Europe is a modern written book, and in this sense the return of the building to Croatian people who care about Croatian interest, perhaps the building of the government of Gotovina should be called to show its width, because it may have given the most famous speech in recent Croatian history in front of that building. All in all, I think that this idea, unfortunately, from a theoretical point of view, is my side, but from an emotional point of view, it's close to me and finally to end up with an yet likdot. Now I was down at our cafe and I talked about the problem that hit the Croatian feather after the outbreak of paranoia or the panic of the bird flu. You are all witnessing the process that the poultry had to close the peasants and that the basic objection that appears in the public that this closed feather does not lay eggs. I spoke to my colleague, Škugor, so that this could be resolved, he said that music should be played by those poultry in the hens, but warned me that counterpart Ivo Josipovic has... to the use of music and that then peasants would have to pay ZAMS compensation for using that music. [[You don't understand.]] The way you see it in all areas is complicated situations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60498	According to your mood, there were no symptoms of rabies. It wasn't, I didn't notice that you were angry at all, it was just one little figure like this, right? And otherwise, you were very partial to yourself, because you misunderstood that you were right about the warned, because it stands, you know, because using the name of that hero from Dostoyevsky was still so inappropriate, but unfortunately we can't have a debate because the Rules of Procedure doesn't allow us to do so, so now we're going to give the replica to the respected MP Peri Kovacevic. ... I wouldn't give it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60499	Your Honor, Mr. President, I think Mr. Letica has always opened this topic well and raised the question of the obligations of membership both in the Chamber of Commerce and in this future chamber. It's the rest of the former system and the question is how constitutional. The question is how constitutional it is if someone is forced, I'm saying it mostly for a peasant. A Croatian peasant from 45th to the day has bad experience. They forced him into cooperatives. They knew how it ended. They always didn't do it somewhere "coholze", "solhoze," or whatever it was called, it always went bad. According to kidnapping, this part of the obligation will have a pretty negative initial part if you don't see which, how will this entire course start because it's an accurate finding, the economic chamber is purpose to itself. If the Chamber of Commerce had done all these things that were to be done in the field of agriculture, if it had done diplomacy, the situation in agriculture would have been quite different. But I'm saying, that's the part where we should pay particular attention to other readings and that's what's most important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60500	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60501	I have already supported the principled position of my colleague, Chuhnil, that the idea of transitional mandatory membership should be accepted and then mandatory voluntary membership. As far as the second reading is concerned, I think it's now a space where the HSS really should go in active cooperation with the ministry on a proposal for a consensus law. And as for your misunderstandings and my misunderstandings, I ask that the committee responsible for the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system assess who was right, Mr. President, and when I ask you for a correction, or a violation of the Rules of Procedure, please respect the Rules of Procedure because I am not going to be angry with you because you are very nice to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60502	Yeah, yeah. Okay. As for musical tantiums, a song went to Eurovision now. I don't know if it would be useful for her to be broadcast with... And then I recommend to the Constitutional Committee that we be kind enough to avoid the Constitutional Committees. Yeah, yeah, he's fine. Well, then, we're going to avoid them unanimously, and then we're going to go to the esteemed representative of Zeljko Ledinsky.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60503	Dear Mr. President, dear secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. Here are a few words on the Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber. For this I would say, a few years ago, I had a chance on a professional field trip, here, along with our fellow secretary of state to be in Austria where I had a chance to learn how the Chamber of Private Forestowners works. In what way it is organized and what it represents throughout the Austrian forestry system. For this reason, and these experiences that I have gained at the time in the interview with and on the ground with Austrian representatives and members of the Chamber, I would dare say that in Croatia it is extremely necessary to establish a Croatian agricultural chamber. Mostly because we have a large number of family farms that are divided today. Who operate through various associations, often these associations operate on some political principles, and not solely on interested ones. And that is why we need to have a system that will allow these farmers, peasants, to willingly join in one form that will represent them in their interests. For example, it is also necessary today to say the Chamber of craftsmen who have only one representative as craftsmen on all committees in our House. While the Chamber of Commerce is significantly larger, it seems to me to be one of nine representatives on our boards acting as external members. If the Croatian Chamber of Agriculture were organized, it would probably have its members on the boards of the Croatian Parliament, and then these people could represent our peasants as well. I understand that among our agents there are those who deal with agriculture. And I personally even have, here, an inherited part of the land and I also deal with certain activities. However, it is not enough to say that Ivo Kolar or Štef Fiolic that they are representatives of the peasants. They are only first and foremost representatives, and then, in their line of work, they are representatives of the peasants and they are successful. And they represent every opportunity I've had to follow them. It would therefore be better to have an institutionally resolved way for these people to be directly represented in certain committees that are discussing certain topics. Just as Croatian craftsmen should. And then there wouldn't be things happening to us that we've had all this time, for 15 years, that some things don't go through that have even been passed legally. Let's just say, when we talk about land policy, which is a major problem today for Croatian peasants not to solve tenders for the sale of agricultural land, to be discussed after any change of government should one way or the other. Here I can cite an example from the Bjelovar-Bilogian County. We spent our best time on land policy when, at the beginning of the term of office, in 94, when that job was done by the county. Afterwards, when we transferred all the powers to the state to do so, the ministry was suddenly slowed down. Here, there's a colleague named Chuhnil who can confirm it. While she was the head of the county, I think we've had one, six competitions that have given a large part of the land for use. But when the decision came afterwards to do so by the ministry, I can understand that two men in the ministry can't accept 500 mayors of municipalities and handle all their demands. And there are services that have done it successfully. We are often in a position to come into a situation of reacting and helping not only peasants but also craftsmen, other unions when they're getting in touch with some kind of protest, then there's an opportunity for both money and funds, for whatever it takes. Here's an example of a water fee. Until there was pressure, that water fee didn't go down. Now it can come down. What's he saying? That we did not make a quality proposal that we changed after a month because obviously something was wrong with that proposal that was originally adopted. And it doesn't seem to be an extremely large fee, and we're talking about agriculture in particular now, but also the rest of the construction sector. And now, what have we done? We pressured the peasants into the starting position, but we left it to those who were building a house, who were building an economic facility at 50% or 30, depending on what it was. And in that part we've still burdened them with, let's say, parafiscal tax although he's not, but we brought it past this Parliament and beyond the law that we adopted here. It would be good for us to settle all such things in the future when the law is passed. And we don't make one law, then we don't respect it afterwards. Here are examples like this, and recently in the debate, I have stated that by passing one law, we have already adjudicated those we brought two months ago. The word was not long. We also have obligations that exist. Here, yesterday, the day before yesterday, which day we talked about prisoners and missing and nice, we got a report here that we talked about. And let's say the green report we're supposed to get hasn't gotten it yet. The obligation is to know who, the Ministry of Resorno. Therefore, when we talk about these things, we must respect what we have brought here at least here in Parliament and then give ourselves dignity. If we're gonna let someone not carry out their duties, then they won't need us here either. But here, so I don't have much longer on today's subject, there's a lot more to talk about. But here, I think, taught the experiences that exist outside, especially in Austria with which we have good experiences, Slovenia and other countries, I think that we should enable our peasants who are united in family economies to join them in the best way and then have both the modality for negotiations and the possibility and to improve their production. Then it won't happen to us that most of the agricultural products we can produce have to be imported. That we have self-sufficiency in all those products that matter to us in a large percentage, not that we are burdened with how we introduce which and what qualities. We often empty warehouses and refrigerators of neighboring countries, and we can produce everything here. Here, I would therefore conclude and support this initiative, the establishment of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60504	Thank you very much. We have one replica, Mr. Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60505	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. He would replicate his fellow Ledinski when he spoke about the fact that we hadn't prepared the issue of water contribution. We were not preparing the issue of water contribution, but was being done by the government. There are those of us who voted against it, who represented the principle of solidarity and expected to return to the principle that was until '98. when we all paid for the flood defense together because these dikes and all these buildings, the water structures that protect us from the floods, are not meant to protect only those who are new investors, but all those who have already built something, and that's not why we were all for it and what the government pulled in half doesn't mean anything now, it should have been dealt with differently in any case at the beginning. We will not support these poles now, because it is too much of a burden for new investors and the question is whether it is constitutional, and I believe that the Constitutional Court will have to give its opinion on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60506	Mr. Ledinsky, answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60507	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Kapraljevic, you said in your replica what I said when I said, we, I thought of all of us that we must first of all respect those decisions that we make in this Croatian Parliament and that it cannot happen that with some other decisions our institutions question the legitimacy of this Parliament and the laws that we have made, and that is exactly what happened with the water compensation. We'll have that water fee today... The reduced form of the largest where? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In Zagreb. Here we will have, and the issue is water supply, in the town of Zagreb itself, where I would say that it may be the most problematic than in other parts of the country and where practically this system does not work in the right way. When we go to our suburban settlements then we can see very well that it is necessary... The largest number of miles of sewerage, where? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In Zagreb the most because there are many new settlements, and there will be the biggest fee and it is significant today, it is no longer small, it by, when calculated by cubic 30 kuna, it is, and Zagreb is all in the first zone mostly. Therefore, this is a significant fee and these are large funds and today the water compensation is calculated so is the most expensive amount for when we need to give a building permit of all the fees paid and in this I agree that such things should not be missed, that they should be adequately discussed, and that the HSS club has just submitted a proposal to amend and supplement the law that we will soon discuss about the water compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60508	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Zvonimir Sabati's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60509	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, I, too, must express my satisfaction that almost all the debaters have so far given more or less in principle, and in particular I would like to say the support of this proposal of our Club of Representatives of the HSS because we in Croatia have been talking about the need for the establishment of the Agricultural Chamber for almost 10 years now and I must say that it is an integral part of the agricultural policy of the Croatian Peasant Party that we show here and today's Proposal for Law. There is no need to repeat much of what has been said, but let me also say that in this way we would indeed strengthen the position of a large number of agricultural associations, as well as family, peasant economies, as well as the individual peasants themselves. First of course through its Chamber, secondly to strengthen the position of negotiators through an institution that would negotiate with all relevant entities, and of course with the Government of the Republic of Croatia and with Brussels, including with banks, hosts. It is especially important here to mention traders, or wholesalers, who often have a lot of privileged positions in buying or making offers for large ones, rather I would say domestic consumers, and there is also thought of a whole series of hotels, but should not forget here even big consumers such as the military and police where a small farmer, a small peasant, has no chance of entering such a large free market. This is how negotiations and arguments are likely to avoid protests in most cases. I don't mean to talk about it because my colleague Ivan Kolar talked a lot, but I just want to say that when it comes to protests, it's for the peasants the last act because the protest, he's basically not in... The peasant. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The peasants are certainly not rebels, they are modest, hardworking and hardworking people who can do more work than speak, who are satisfied with both the small ones, and that they know in advance what they can count on, that they have support that will not change at any moment, but that they agree on the placement, and so the Chamber is the place where they can and should agree on the placement. It must be an institution where it will not only negotiate and negotiate but also an institution where a strategic development policy will be negotiated, particularly agricultural policy where strategic state interests, demographic policy, rural development policy, and what is the most important policy for us is Croatia's even development. In this way, we would also avoid the interference of many different politicians who are not understood in agriculture, but are understood to manipulate human feelings, human suffering, human hardships and problems. I would not talk here about the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, nor would I want to cause any controversy about the real role of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce in protecting farmers and protecting their interests, peasants are looking for their institution because the village and agriculture deserve it. In my Varazdin County, agriculture is a strategic resource and because of the development of vegetables, viticulture, fruit growing, flora, but also because of livestock farming, we also have a number of well-organised associations, so it is no wonder that we have both presidents of the alliances at the state level and in Mr. Zagorec and in the gentleman... They're from Varazdin County right now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I have to say, for the wine growing area alone, that we have as many as 15 associations as we have the county alliance. The same situation is similar in other counties from my region, the Međimurje County certainly has similar programs and projects and is advanced according to the organization of peasants, it also refers to the Krapina-Zagorje County, and also to the Koprivnica-križevci County, which by its characteristics must also play a dominant role here. Perhaps then through the Chamber we could come up with expressions and good initiatives of the region, in fact regional self-government, only as an example I will list the Varazdin County where I and as mayor of the Varazdin County and personally launched some very important projects for the first time in Croatia, for example, subsidising the production of vegetables, flowers and medicinal plants, so rounding the land, not to say that from before there has been an incentive to grow a... etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It all started out together because our peasants were well organized. We give them the opportunity to organise not only further well through the agricultural chamber but also to participate in a series of negotiations and to participate in development projects, especially agricultural policies. And I will, of course, support this proposal not only in the first but also in the second reading and I call on the government to also consider these good ideas proposed by the Croatian Peasant Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60510	Thank you very much. Mr. Agent Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60511	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Agricultural production as an economic activity clearly plays a major role in both economic and social terms, and we can almost safely say that the situation in agricultural production is not good, that it is not good from today, but simply one round that turns is not going to be a wheel of happiness, but always contains new twists and new problems. Simply, it is obvious not only for Croatia but for all countries one of the most difficult topics, the topic where it is most important to invest in the least to be realistically achieved. But it's obvious that everyone else is doing it, so we'll have to do it ourselves. What is the worst thing about trying to arrange an activity like agriculture? It's the worst thing to do when you misdiagnose the situation. If you misdiagnose the situation in agriculture, then there is an even greater danger ahead of you. That those recommendations can be made because of this misdiagnosion is also wrong. Often, this is exactly what happens in Croatian agriculture. We did not fully define what the situation is and what the diagnosis is, what state Croatian agriculture is in, and therefore gave very clear unequivocal and solutions and recommendations. The issue of the farmer's chamber as one infrastructure. I probably think not of her as an expert, but of respecting such a Czech organization that is in Croatia today and we cannot say clearly if we want to seriously consider this topic that she is very well organized. She's got her own good side and her own bad side. Agriculture as a very important segment and an economic and social aspect deserves to be organised, deserves to respect all specificities of this system. In fact, the main goal in agriculture and agriculture is to raise competitiveness everywhere. Competitiveness is, in fact, the most crucial thing today. In fact, it's one of those things that can't be regulated by laws in terms of competitiveness itself. You can infrastructureally raise opportunities for competitiveness to be good. Unfortunately, in a report on the global competitiveness of Croatian agriculture is in a bad place, it is located somewhere in this moment according to that index between 60th and 65th place, between either Romania and Bulgaria or at the level of Romania and Bulgaria, or in a group of countries belonging to transition processes. Countries like Poland, Hungary, Estonia, Slovenia are a little bit more on that index than we are, and that says that we are behind those countries in that part. What marks the problems that should be faced by the chamber that would be established are different. They are different and are difficult to apply in a single-line manner in the context of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce. Why? Well, because there is simply one sensitive approach to the individual possible members of the agricultural chamber. The peasant is not as sensitive as when you tell him there has to be something and he has to pay for something. It pisses him off. So you're going to need to think a little bit about the second reading whether that binding character, whether something that he has to pay with that you've already almost got him as his enemy. It should be considered, it should be clearly respected and how the Czech structures are organised, etc. But that's something you know if we've already realized that the situation in the country is what it is, so we agreed that it's bad, that peasants are very difficult in competition to resist anyone. So I'm going to tell anyone, I'm not going to lead anyone because almost no one they can resist because they're not simply in a position to be competitive. And that's why the debate on the agricultural chamber is, in fact, the introduction to this may be more likely to say but a more serious debate on how to encourage domestic capacities and agricultural and food, and textiles and all others to be competitive and to strengthen, to strengthen and to place their products. The proposal for an incentive law on the agenda behind this domestic tourism placement production can be called without any shame a proposal to encourage domestic export production. There's no difference between that. Why was this syntagma tourism taken? It's just that tourism is the same thing as export, but it's in our house. So, in that space where we can be more competitive and where it's easier for us to have a fundamental interest in selling goods. And characterically, there is no difference between exports and tourism, no difference whatsoever. Therefore, this bill that we are discussing today is only one small infrastructure where there is no need to make mistakes in an emotional way. So, let's not get against ourselves a peasant population but to ease the views no matter how it reflects on existing infrastructures of a similar Czech character and make a good relationship to make a key point of content, and this is a step on how to get competitive products in Croatian agriculture in the next four years, how to first expose these competitive products in Croatian agriculture to the domestic export tourist market, because this market according to estimates made by the Croatian National Bank through its reports, the Institute of Tourism at this point is over $2 billion. Two billion dollars, I'm sure all the capacities of the agricultural-food character and similar can find their place, their market and their price on that market. So it's just a very simple question. How and in what way? Whether the Agricultural Chamber can be very active in working and propagating and creating conditions for production organizers to appear. That they contribute because today is equally important to sell, and it is even more important to charge. And more important than all that is to know who you're making for, and do you have a place on the market? Therefore, these preconditions are in fact content, content guidelines that are necessary for the Agricultural Chamber Act to be implemented. So it's not just a dead letter on paper, a new load around the peasant's neck, a new, new place that won't produce, a new number of those who will sit. We don't need that. We need a substantive change that in three years' time, in five years' time will result in the fact that the share of domestic capacity in exports if you want or in tourism grows from the current 30th and something to 60%. So we're covering for so much and so much. Because by empowering products, product brands on the domestic market create conditions for it to become recognizable on the foreign market. I will only cite the example of Spain that has set up a brand with its prosciuttos in our way that almost no one who comes to Spain does not come out of Spain to buy that type of product that is an international brand. And that when you try our true, brazen if you want or some other prosciutto can't actually measure by taste, quality, and properties with it. But we didn't simply create an opportunity to have quantities that would satisfy needs of equal quality and we didn't promote our own products. And then we should not be surprised when in a year, two, three Spanish products come to Croatia and compete with our goods are cheaper. Why? Well, because they're going to be subsidized, encouraged, and because what's most important is the wider line of credit has to cover production today. The conditions of lending provided by the current commercial banks are not at the level of the needs they need for manufacturers to be able to make quality products.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60512	Thank you very much. We have replicas. First is Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60513	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, I have the impression that all the time here, the role of the chamber that is primarily business and market, will be marred by business market integration and all that is related to entrepreneurship with associations, and above all to the professional associations that exist today on the ground, which is a purely different role. It is impossible, it is impossible for the chamber to take over the role and associations that work and the professional part, which indeed then define the problem within their production with normal and science, and then the chamber is further which should take over the problem from the professional associations themselves orientation towards the market, the orientation I do not know by all entrepreneurship activities further define. There's no way the chamber can take over that segment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60514	Thank you. Mr. Markov's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60515	I wanted to be a fellow painter to explain the difficulty of the situation we're in. If it wasn't and it wouldn't be good if this assembly came up with a message, "Here we agreed to a consensus about the agricultural chamber, and now you don't have any problems in the country, you don't have any problems in the city. Now the production capacity will be brought into that position it is in." I mean, this is just one good idea to make a pyramid of different infrastructure possibilities that really happen in the country, in agriculture, in the food industry. Of course everyone has their place so the associations have a very clear place and their character and it is clear that the chamber will not interfere, but of course their problems it will accept as their own and reproduce them in terms of a solution, but we have been through too much by establishing certain institutions without often getting the answer that we thought we would get. Therefore, I just want to warn that it is good to set up a chamber, but without measures like the one that I have stated that we need to develop a system of evaluation and promotion of domestic production and find a place for these domestic products. Create brands because it is the only way we can get to produce for a well-known market and that the market accepts our goods.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60516	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative Miroslav Korenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60517	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So when it comes to financing not only this chamber but all the chambers we are all aware that both craftsmen and businessmen have problems in Croatia right now. And the obligation to pay and we always say that someone else will finance it. If farmers and all who are to enter this chamber feel both the work and the chamber benefit, then they will be happy to come in and pay for something. But how do you help the craftsmen now? We also have the possibility, according to this Law, both theoretically and practically, that certain craftsmen must be if membership is mandatory and in the composition of both chambers. How do they avoid paying two chamber contributions or two membership fees? If they have no use for it, then it's a pressure for them, and then it's a commitment they don't want to meet. Competitiveness, I agree, competitiveness is something we should be doing not only with this law, it may be on the way. We have a series of accompanying laws that we need to pass in this House of Highs, which unfortunately, because of the inactivity of the government, we don't. However, competitiveness will also be better supported and all that comes from the Inheritance Act, everything else that seems to me is very late, but here I am asking you a colleague how we will do and we all complain because in Croatia, the hyperinflation of the establishment of different chambers is currently. And everywhere, membership is mandatory. There's someone everywhere who has to pay without seeing the lasting benefit of it. And that's exactly why we're going to see how this chamber will, when it does, be able to convince those who should be in its membership to benefit from it, and that long-term is not going to be the problem of paying. And like this, when everyone has to pay, they don't necessarily have too much joy, and it doesn't often even have to do with competitiveness.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60518	Thank you. Mr. Markov's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60519	... The root, the agricultural chamber can be a good solution. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]] However, it will be no problem for farmers to pay what they should pay on condition that they get what they need. And what they need to get is not only membership in that agricultural chamber, but it's also the possibility that they have their production monitored, that they have unambiguous resources to plan their production that they will place, and that the overall system will help them to place it under the same conditions, I'm not talking about some, but market conditions like any other. But the interest-free credit today is enjoyed by many in production. There is no reason not to be enjoyed by farmers and not to be provided with market relations, and in this case the market can be tourism, but it can also be exports.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60520	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60521	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I would also like to point out here the role of this Chamber, because the villagers have been cheated, deceived, and even robbed countless times. And now the question arises that they should all become members of that Chamber and that they should all pay some kind of membership fee. It's the same in other different chambers, as well as in the craftsman and I don't know which other. And believe me, some of those chambers come down to members of the chamber getting one month of some kind and nothing more. I wouldn't want this chamber to end the same way, to make the peasants pay for something, and all of it to get just one newspaper a month. I hope we can install enough of these security mechanisms so the peasants won't be fooled again.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60522	Thank you. Mr. Markov's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60523	Comrade Kapraljevic, I will repeat again, The Chamber of Agriculture is the first step in creating a relationship of trust that must not only end up on the trust of one side, but must be absolutely invested much to show the trust of this other side as correct. And the trust that the government, which the local self-government has, is to create conditions for something to be produced, to place what is produced on the market, to place the market on the market, that the market can find the right price for it, and that the price can valorise the work that is being covered by it. Therefore, the matter is very simple. The systems that helped each other were also present in those famous self-government agreements until the '90s. In the years where it was well known, one of the positions of Istria was focused on PPK Osijek and had self-government agreements that regulated mutual relations. Through the internal bank, they were lending and mutually helping each other in certain financial transactions and thus creating trust, creating a good product and propagating what was most important. And that is also the most important reason why tourists come to us today, which is to feel the autochtony of local cuisine, those products that rightly bear the designation of organic food and everything that is actually with our natural beauty and the main reason for the arrival of tourists in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60524	Thank you very much. We've got two hearings in five minutes. The first one is on behalf of the HSLS club...... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And you are. When they're done two or so. ... Well, okay. Then the two of them, and then you will finally. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And now? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Excuse me, Mr. Kramaric. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Ivan Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60525	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Here, however, the debate speaks of a great deal of concern for the farmer, his status, and who should represent him and how his rights should be exercised. I assure you that when institutionally it starts with one organization of peasants in this way, it doesn't take a lot of midwives, it doesn't have to be debated much, but should let the process run clearly with clear criteria, indications, legal provisions. And believe me, then the peasant will not have those other problems and fears that were in this or that extremity or some other period of time, but should let him realize for himself that his presence guarantees that his rights, the way of achieving those rights, the obligations he has created are on him and that he discusses it in his institution at the expense of being a member. I agree that right now we have more ways of being a member. Voluntary or mandatory membership. But if we let go of volunteering, that's a personal belief, I think it's hard to revive one institution of broader scope, and that, as it is said, by modifying mandatory membership, and then by volunteering for the first time, it would result in a generally accepted attitude that family agriculture, commercial societies, means that they were founded in this way, companies, businesses and crafts would be participants in one process. I repeat, what is happening now is that in one place or in one village 20 people are organized, 50-ac, agree on a problem, raise a little temperature, and the problem needs to be discussed. I agree that we should discuss it. For this, there should be institutions at the lowest level, medium and higher levels, and there attitudes should be crystallised, opportunities found and realised their problems. And this is the way. So believe me, from the debate and the talk with the peasants they blame us for why we didn't do it already in the previous period, which is why such an institution doesn't exist. Because there isn't really any structure that isn't organized, except for peasants. And now a naughty one question. Are we going to attempt an institutionalized organization of peasants to convert that he must again fight on the road for his rights and show that while he is hard to make heads together and put pressure on this or that authority to make his rights come true? Therefore, all those who have something to say, can say, let them help to help the second reading of this law be truly acceptable to one wide range of agricultural producers to agree on how to decide and ultimately to make these groups of people a partner, I told the Ministry, finally to create a agricultural policy, to design it, to be a participant, and to make it better for all of us, and trust me after entering the European Union or such institutions, this type of institution will be difficult to achieve, if we do not make them now because no one is stopping us now, whether it is like this or such an institution. This time the agricultural chamber is proposed, let them now take their stand, let them break the spear, but let it result in one view that it is a need and I say without fear that the chambers should be held under quotes, be watchful, let those people who are directly involved in agricultural production discuss it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60526	Thank you very much. Mr. Kramaric on behalf of the HSLS club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60527	Dear Mr. Vice President, the honorary representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Among the piles of this paper we got on the table then there's one from February 7th where the government doesn't exactly stand behind this proposal. Then we have one of the 22nd March government allows, lets this go, and this gets the green light in the first reading. It all immediately resembles there at the beginning of the 19th century when that Napoleon was imprisoned and Parisian, so he started off with that one of his Elbes and then Parisian... They say the monster woke up, the beast woke up, so as he approached Paris the day he entered Paris his highness, the emperor arrived and the same newspaper, the same journalists about the same man on so far from the monster, beasts and right to the emperor's highness. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there are few of these months and a half and all of these events of peasants that we see a sudden change in the government, and that's good, so the government is sensitive, that is, reacting and missing, it will give the green light that this proposal of the law on the Croatian agricultural chamber enters the second reading. I'm not going to say that you're monsters and beasts or that you're representing these right now, but what's actually a little bit more bothering me in this whole story, it's this post-brain syndrome. Just this week in the Parliament, that is, these days we have that some MPs are suddenly remembering some meetings in January morning from ten years ago, so some judges remember that some other judges have been working now that they are no longer the presidents of the courts, and the same some parties who had their own ministers and who were covering certain resolutions are now going with this bill, there is not only the exception of colleagues from the HSS, we discussed the proposed law, the former interior minister, which actually shows that this bauk's subsequent mind syndrome is circulating in Croatia, so our people say better than ever, and I will understand it that way. I also have this doubt as well as just before my colleague Letica, he called it... doubt, I think it's Pascal, logic of the heart and logic of the mind. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The logic of the heart is just telling us that, meaning these emotions that some things, that some things are nice to have, that you are sensually sensitive, that you show exceptional sensitivity to the question of peasants, their position, and on the other hand this logic of the mind tells you that this inflation institution is not guaranteeing that everything will really be solved as it is imagined here. We recently had a round table in the party about where we tried to position the role and function of the Chamber of Commerce. I'm afraid the same is the main issue, one of the main topics, the opposition was whether it was a voluntary, voluntary membership or compulsory membership. Which motivates more, which no longer motivates. Which is, in fact, how in fact this chamber of ours that kind of covers and this problem that you're talking about, how it actually behaves, isn't it really the same institution that's already kind of in some way not actually justified your trust with that I don't think it's all because it comes from some other time that by definition it's bad. Finally, the same institution is known and all the countries of the European Union are only exactly different from whether membership is mandatory or not. And that's why I can, I understand exactly that this complexity, the complexity of the European Union corresponds to our own complexity, that we are preparing these answers, that we already have the answers that will come and that are waiting for us today and tomorrow we become full members where, certainly, from agriculture, agriculture is exactly the kind of segment of society that may even be the most sensitive and which has indeed been popularized in years, and for years we have treated it in some way as we have treated it and it's not easy to bring back the wheel of history, and now it's just in some way to rewrite everything that's been happening. Here's someone from 45. But I don't think, I don't know that the 18th period was much better, and 18 years old, too, so our peasant remembers as a bad year. That's why I say that bad or not really great past doesn't just make it so easy to fix. But I'm afraid what's going on is that these solutions are still not going to answer us why we're importing food. Here's my colleague Pankretic and I were opening a wholesale market in Osijek a few years ago when he was a minister, me mayor and that major, we just ran into apples from I don't know Spain, Italy, I don't know what the name of the Bosnians is, they don't even have 20, 30 kilometers. The same goes for food, importing foods that I don't know, whether or not, I'm not going to repeat those numbers because I'm not sure, but they're talking about millions and billions of kunas. These are all actually things that I think need to be solved so that I don't know how to move on to this institutional defense of the interest of Croatian peasants. In that case, if we were convinced in the second reading, since the government will give the green light, we won't avoid it either, but with the whole question that I've come to say in these five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60528	Thank you, Mr. Representative. This was very educational, this time... in Paris. ... As some parties, let's not call it a counter-session or as it is now called, went into opposition and from the government to the opposition and vice versa, so that it can finally be determined that both the Parliament and the Government and each party between other water and politics. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So we're in a phase here running a permanent policy some right, so it shouldn't be considered an exception to some, it's a positive development of events, right? We still have five minutes on behalf of the IDS club, Mr. Representative Walter Poropat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60529	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The IDS Club supports the idea of the HSS's Club of Representatives on the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber. We believe that the agricultural potential of the Republic of Croatia is great and we believe that the Croatian agricultural chamber would contribute to improving the development of agriculture as a whole. And in the interest of the faster development of Croatian agriculture and the adaptation of family agricultural holdings to market conditions, there is a need to establish the agricultural chamber as an independent business professional organisation in such a way as not only to increase the administration here and that the chamber does not become self-sustaining. In the IDS Club, we also think that the agricultural chamber organised in professional groups would connect all producers, especially family farms, processors and distributors, and contribute to direct and constructive cooperation in the design of development programmes and measures with all actors in agriculture, and above all protect their own interests. At the same time, it would contribute to strengthening entrepreneurship and more efficient business between all forms of organisation and business in agriculture. The IDS Club therefore supports the idea of the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber and proposes to go to another reading of this Law. Just by avoiding what we could hear today, therefore, an increase in bureaucracy, or bureaucratic apparatus, or an increase in possible administration, to see what is happening today in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, but since the agricultural potential of the Republic of Croatia is so great today, we still believe that the Croatian agricultural chamber would make a major contribution to the development of agriculture as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60530	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60531	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the honorable representative of the ministry. Well, it's unequivocal that the HSS Club will support this proposal to set up a agricultural chamber. We are pleased with the debate that opened on this proposal. Of course, there were some words and sentences that were not very attached to the function of the agricultural chamber. That's why we would like to point out in the HSS that we don't want to be in our programme, that the chamber is part of our programme, that we rely on agriculture that would have a sign that it's the rest of the past. We believe that agriculture is a key economic branch in Croatia because it is not difficult to learn that the most important and the strongest countries in the European Community were either from the first round or from this second round, which are new members, are also strong agricultural countries that uncompromisingly support their economic potential. The proposal on the chamber is a small step towards this because new understanding of agriculture is needed. Agriculture isn't just a peasant issue. It's a development issue, it's a sociological question, but primarily it's an economic issue. At the same time, we believe that agriculture-based economy is also the infrastructure of tourism. This is one form of association that will know how to protect the interests of peasants, the interests of production bearers, which according to the understanding of the HSS must be called the family agricultural economy. We are here in the debate in order to make it important that even through the chamber the peasants come to the committees of the Parliament. It's pointed out by my colleague, the Trakostanian, that the peasants are in the Parliament. Of course they are, but as agents. However, we consider as the Chamber of Commerce in the Assembly represented by the committees, unfortunately too little, in one of the 25 bodies of the Parliament. The economy is also too small. So the representatives of the agricultural chamber should also be on board. That's the meaning of the proposal, that's the second step we still have to define, of course. An important topic is how to resolve the payment of membership in the agricultural chamber. We believe that in the first phase, the state needs to be involved with support so that this chamber should function. Of course, a chamber should be opened to the market, but the aim of the proposal is to place as little burden on those who wish to be members as possible. And finally, we would no longer like to be witnesses to the need to be able to resolve the payment of incentives in agriculture, to come to Zagreb with tractors because of the delay in agricultural land reform. That's what I said. In this way, farmers and those dealing with agriculture will be able to come organised by bus, being an equal negotiator with all relevant institutions, and primarily with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which must define a strategy for the development of agriculture. But of course, before that is determined, we must implement that obligation on the green report on the situation in agriculture. Our video shows that agriculture isn't organized enough. That's why we went with a proposal like this. I am pleased, and we at the club that most in the debate supported this proposal. And let's try what we declare and what we often point out in the debates to do in nature. So in the second reading, let's try to install all the good proposals that have come, and ignore those proposals that have only been made here politically because of the possible withdrawal of the electoral body that is in the country and which deals with agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60532	Thank you. On behalf of the Government State Secretary Mr. Herman Sušnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60533	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Here, the debate was pretty long. All morning. I think it was constructive in both the interests of agriculture and agricultural producers. The Government of the Republic of Croatia considered at its session the legislative proposal submitted and considered that the intensities of the legal proposal, which is the basis of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber as an independent professional organisation to improve the system... support for agriculture deserves to be accepted in the first reading. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Government of the Republic of Croatia, in cooperation with the proposal of the club of representatives of the HSS in the Croatian Parliament, shall, on the basis of the opinions and proposals presented here today in this discussion, discuss... prepare with all relevant institutions the Final Proposal of the Law. [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60534	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, finally, Mr. Representative Bozidar Pankretić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60535	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. So let me finally, on behalf of the promoter of the Croatian Peasant Party club, thank everyone who, if I'm allowed to say freely constructively to participate in this debate, wanted to contribute that here is the law we can say freely by consensus here in the first reading, and then to get to this Law. I believe that we should not in any way recall certain things that could be characterized as said by the distinguished representative Kramarić with later wisdom, but I must say that in 2003 this Law was prepared in the ministry and that this Law was ready for procedure. For very clear reasons why it was the end of the term of office this Law was not put into the procedure and I think it is also clear because these laws that require I would say the elections afterwards are not a little stronger preparation that can come at the end of the term of any government, and I would say the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party has been waiting for a good year and a half to, here is whether the party in power or perhaps coalition partners propose such a law. When it didn't come to this, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasants' Party sent this Law into the procedure, that if we are then out of opposition, here it is and we are glad that everyone is now here and supporting this Law. I must say a crucial question why the Croatian Agricultural Chamber? I think it is very clear that today the division of agricultural producers, so I will say freely and sometimes the politicism of certain groups, certain associations in Croatia today, is too large, it is on stage, I must say that the very clear reason, although we must speak here extremely well, the Croatian Peasant Party cooperates if I can say so with the Croatian Peasant Union, the strong association is almost behind us, but we believe that this moment has come very clearly the time in which certain things need to be institutionalised, solve them for a long period of time and solve them in a very concrete way so that through the Croatian agricultural chamber continuously, almost here I can say all year round about all the topics that are important to agriculture we have the opinion of those people on which definitely all things depend, and these are our agricultural producers. We are aware that, if this is only one link in an extremely important chain and that also by obtaining the Croatian Agricultural Chamber as an institution will certainly not be solved, the problems that are definitely piled up in agriculture. What is and what must be mentioned today, what, I guess everyone here agrees, is always money that is not enough in agriculture, which is not enough in that part that is most important for our agricultural producers, if we want them to be competitive, to be able to achieve those goals that we have here, we want them to be not directly exported but in what is certainly going to be a lot of talk here, and that's being placed in tourism, but that's what we'll be able to do when we have our family farms that can deal with both price, technology and everything that's here today is required of one agricultural producer. Without the extra money there will certainly not be, I would say the discussions in which we will make sure that the money has enough or that the incentives have increased, etc., and when we see concrete things that do not happen in the most direct part, then I must honestly say that we have a direct problem and that it will certainly not help. All that is here and this Law I believe here today and talked about will help us to understand here in the right way, and not only for some purposes, real problems, in agriculture where we have to say clearly that certain programmes that have been announced, which are unfortunately after half the mandates of this government from others, from the irrigation programme, the programmes that we hold should not have been the ones that will be implemented the moment when the money is collected and the money has been collected, but they should have been as well as some other major projects announced and defined have no proposed funds in the state budget, we think that our Slavonia was primarily affected and that in the future it must be taken into account, and we believe that the Croatian agricultural chamber in the future will certainly be one of the partners who will then have a significant, continuous impact on certain things that should happen in the government. I'm not going to mention now I'd say the unfulfilled ones, and the announced operational programmes related to cattle production where we wanted to raise a thousand and 300... The facilities, unfortunately a very small number has been raised, about 13, 14. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As we announced that every year we would raise long-term losses in a certain amount, the programme is not being met. We think that in that part certainly one institution to which no one could attribute any political character, any political background, and it would be called surely the Croatian Agricultural Chamber could have a more significant, more reasoned impact on the ministry, on the government that all these programmes are being implemented, that all these programmes come to a certain extent to the realization. Here we are in the end, respecting all the remarks that have been made here, respecting the government's position and all the clubs, I believe that by the second reading we will get a law which we will all, together, also by consensus and bring here to the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60536	Thank you. We have two corrections. The first is Mr. Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60537	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I don't think there's any need for fellow Pankretic to actually feel that any way would be offended and that his vanity, that vanity was at issue when it was found that he was still in part of the syndrome... reason because, from January 3rd to 2000, until the beginning of October 2003, it was enough time for the former ministry to let such an important bill into the parliamentary procedure, and not in any way to wait for the end of the term of office and say that fact, and I have no doubt about it, but the current Proposer in no way... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60538	Well, that's not exactly an correction, but permanent education and learning, it's in action now everywhere. It can't be considered post-wise because we learn all the time. Mr. Representative Ivo Loncar, correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60539	In his inspired speech, Pankretic literally said, "I am glad that everyone supports this law." My friend Pancretic, I don't support him. I'm in favour of the chamber, but I'm not for the party chamber because the party chambers and party associations in the last seven years have ruined Croatian agriculture for eight years. An eclectic example of the destruction of Croatian agriculture is the invention of the HSS called the Croatian Peasants' Union. Four years while you were Minister of the Alliance, there was nowhere to be seen now on the roads threatening the safety of Croatian citizens. Your Leader was with them on a tractor and was ruining Croatia's tourist season and the image of Croatian agriculture. I am to establish a Croatian agricultural chamber but not to be a party. And we now have a state chamber within the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. That's where we have the Agriculture Sector. Also, if you didn't know in November last year a agricultural chamber was established. So let's let go of partying. Croatian agriculture is one big patient and we need to do everything we can to heal it but in a party way and not to have party leaders stormers threatening tractors and other machinery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60540	Thank you very much. It's over. In the name of the promoter, he has spoken, and now everything is more exhausted. This can be considered a correction because the gentleman explained why he was against it, that we didn't all mean it. Therefore, it is in line with the rules of procedure. ... I'm going to close this debate. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it's 3:00 a.m. to resume the session and vote. When two points of the agenda are needed, the two-thirds majority, in terms of military exercises and participation in the peace mission in the United Nations. So, last time we didn't have that, I'd be begging my fellow club presidents to make sure we still vote to have the number of agents needed here and it takes a minimum of 102. So, I'm interrupting the session. Continuation is at 3:00. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-24-0.u60541	Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, first reading. Proposer of the Law is the Club of Representatives of the HSS. In accordance with the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting on the next conclusion. Under one, the Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber proposed by the Croatian Representatives' Club of the HSS is hereby adopted. Under two, in accordance with Article 150(2). Rules of Procedure The Final Proposal of the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber will be drawn up by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in cooperation with the Club of Representatives of the HSS. Under three, all objections and proposals and opinions will be addressed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to prepare a final proposal for the Law. Please, let's get involved, I'm voting on the proposal for a conclusion. We can vote. The result? With 90 votes for, 11 abstentions and 1 against the accepted proposed conclusion. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. Because there has been an increase in the scope of the agenda, especially since, according to the business deadlines, the debate on the trust of Deputy Prime Minister Polancec, which is tied to the deadlines, given the updated session agenda, will be held on 10 April, and we will be working up to 24 hours these days. We're moving on with the session. Let's get to the point, - a proposal for a national corruption control programme in 2006. - 2008. The national programme is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. When adopting a national programme, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committees on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received reports from the working bodies at the session. Proposer representative, Justice Minister Ana Lovrin will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Minister.
