ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53491	Mr. President, could I have a few sentences, please, if I could have one proposal on behalf of the HSS Club?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53492	You can get a break for the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53493	It'll only take two, three minutes so we don't ask for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53494	I'm gonna set you up for a club break, and I can't tell you anything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53495	Then please take a minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53496	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53497	Please take a minute, then.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53498	I can't give you that again. I have to give you 10 minutes off. I have to give you a break at least.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53499	Let's make a deal, we're people. Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53500	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53501	Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53502	Give a break for 10 minutes. Here you go, 10 minutes off. After the break, we'll continue with the session. I'd like the esteemed representative of the Zeljko Pecek to report on the position of the Association of Representatives of the HSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53504	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! These days in the press, we could read the following headlines and comments. I quote: "The defense of the accused Croats is lucrative but for the lawyers of the pet government and Pantovic. It has not yet been defined what role the states will play in financing the defence." - said one lawyer. Deputy Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor said -- "The government has not made a decision on the financing of the general's defence." "The state and foundation will jointly finance the defence of generals Gotovina, Markac and Cermak" is one title from the press. "The expenditure that the defenders will have will be settled according to the accounts submitted, we learned from the source in the government who wanted to remain unnamed," a newspaper quoted it as saying in an article in the press. The Croatian public so that we here in the Parliament do not have any information from the Government on the basis of which we would be sure that for those who gave the state for Croatia the maximum state wants to fight back in the same way. We at the HSS Club want to make sure that Croatian generals will be defended by the best lawyers, that enough money is provided for this, but also that it is working on making documentation available to defenders in good time. We want to make sure that the state takes care of everyone according to their needs and according to their capabilities. In order to end all media speculations and deny the slogan that only in Croatia is it difficult to be a general after the battle we ask you Mr. President on behalf of the HSS Club to invite the Prime Minister to the Parliament who would introduce us to what has been done to defend Croatian generals so far and whether the Government has a plan to do so until the process is complete. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53505	The Prime Minister is at a joint session of the Croatian Government and the Hungarian Government and I will inform him of this proposal. ... You wouldn't say another. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I am concluding this debate on the proposal for a communication strategy for informing the Croatian public about the European Union, preparing for membership. Thank you very much. I'm going to interrupt the session now. Resume at 3:00. It continues with the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Protocol No. 14 In addition to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms on the Amendment to the Control System of the Convention. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities should also discuss this proposal for a convention at a stop. And then the proposal for a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Italian Republic on the consolidation of the debt of the Republic of Croatia. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue the session. It's on the agenda. Proposal for a plan to confirm Protocol No. 14 In addition to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, amending the Control System of the Convention, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 424 We have accepted the emergency procedure. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and human rights and the rights of national minorities. Please state... There's no need. Do the committee's rapporteurs want a word? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. She's gone. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53922	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Few colleagues, no colleagues, no MPs. I must say that this is a technical agreement, and since it is unquestioned, it does not cause any particular debate, and the HNS club will certainly support this Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Italy or officially the Italian Republic, so that this bill also confirms the fact that financial territorial, material and other types of disputes between certain countries are rarely resolved in one year, two, that this often takes decades, and that this Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Italian Republic regarding debts, so that we accept that the Republic of Croatia, in the capacity of the debtor, must fully fulfil all financial obligations and that it is required to plan and secure the resources in due time within the corresponding paragraphs of the state budget for the period until 2009 for the payment of the part of outstanding debt. We have, in addition to these financial obligations towards Italy, a number of unresolved financial and material issues and relations from the time of Austria and through Austria, which is still up to the problem with our neighbours, with the Republic of Slovenia, the Ljubljanska Banka, not to mention other types of property relations and financial and material obligations between them, so bilaterally unresolved, such issues will still be likely with Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia-Montenegro, and these are processes that are otherwise known in international law and the settlement of financial obligations that last for a long time and have been resolved for decades. Confirmation of this agreement is an opportunity for me to remind on behalf of the HNS Club that we are obliged by the succession of the Treaty of Aussie, and especially Roman, to pay the remaining $35 million, especially on the basis of these Treatys of Rome of 83. The requirements of part of the Italian public in Italy, while primarily referring to the optans, me term esuls, exiles or whatever they are called, are not used because I think that in our public, and even in the debates in the Assembly, it is more accurate to use the term "optans" because it is about people who have opt for Italy, and in this case it was not the essays that they use for themselves. And therefore, the demands of one part of the Italian public, we have witnessed these days, are going to the fact that they are actually looking for an revision of these foreign and Roman contracts, and it is also part of our Croatian financial obligations as a co-excessor of the agreement between Yugoslavia and Italy. However, in addition to the understandable, understandable and public demands that can be tolerated in our political bodies, there are also indications of some state-owned Italian institutions, i.e. Italian officials targeting the revision of the Aussie Agreements and Roman Treaties, and we are witnessing that some inappropriate messages bearing a sign are being sent and could qualify as a form of political pressure on Croatia and, of course, attempts to politically condition the positioning or position of Croatia in the European Union. I must say that I speak on behalf of the HNS Club, that the reaction of the Croatian leadership to these pressures is now being assessed as satisfactory, that we assess the reaction of the Prime Minister and other competent ministers as appropriate. Our proposal is also related to this confirmation of the agreement between Croatia and Italy, our proposal is to secure in the budget the remaining $35 million that Croatia, as a supplier of contracts signed between Yugoslavia and Italy, is due to be paid in 83 years, i.e. in some way that will depend on the technicals, banking technique of the Republic of Italy. I advocate that Croatia acts in the same way as Slovenia did. Or that in one of the foreign banks we can also go to Croatia because they are part Italian property anyway. To open an account entitled Republic of Italy, the Italian Republic, regardless of the agreement with the Republic of Italy, may the Italian Ministry, their Government or the competent authority when and how they will benefit from these remaining 35 million debts, which, on the basis of the Treatys of Rome, Croatia and subsequent agreements with the Republic of Slovenia, owes the Republic of Italy. I'm afraid if we wait until we agree with the Republic of Italy and wait for the Republic of Italy to open an account that it won't be waiting so soon. And that Italy, and this experience tells us, that Italy will use this debt default as a form of continuous political pressure. So, on behalf of the CNS, we'll, I can say we'll support this bill, but in that context, and we're showing the need to liquidate this $35 million debt in the way I've put it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53923	Thank you. The HSS Club, the esteemed representative of Ante Markov. He's gone. The club loses its word. Dear Representative Damir Cain, on behalf of the IDS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53924	Honorable Mr. President, distinguished gentlemen of the council. As Mr. Mastruko himself said before me, I think this contract is absolutely not controversial. The contract, on the other hand, was signed by the Croatian government, specifically Mr. Shuker. And today more than that contract cannot, clearly, escape, be given up. It is about Croatia's commitment to the so-called Paris Club. Croatia as a country did not directly use the money, it was used by ex Yugoslavia, but through this succession it is returned by all the republics of ex Yugoslavia. When I say that Croatia did not use it, I do not think some companies from the Republic of Croatia have used it. Members of the Paris Club are listed here on page 1. The Federal Republic of Germany, the State of Kuwait, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland, the French Republic, the Swiss Confederation, the United States, the Republic of Austria, the Kingdom of Spain, the Netherlands, Belgium, Sweden, Norway, Denmark, the Italian Republic, Japan, etc. So, I guess with all of them, Croatia has such bilateral agreements that have passed this Parliament. Apart from Italy and everyone, clearly, to this day Croatia has paid a proportional share in the conflict. This means a concrete agreement with Italy. But what intrigued me most. Page 4, I'm going to quote here, there's no one from the Ministry to explain it to me. "Croatian side", I quote, "has launched a joint initiative by all the countries on the non-payment of this category of debt as legally unfounded, and a joint letter signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Montenegro, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Macedonia and the Republic of Serbia on 16 December 2004, requested the arbitration of the Paris Club's secretariat. Unfortunately, the Paris Club's secretariat, not getting into the metrics of things, felt this was a technical issue to be addressed bilaterally. After receiving the documentation from the Italian side, the Croatian side accepted as a Croatian debt of basic tight interest (uncompromised by the former National Bank of Yugoslavia) for the third and fourth reprogramme and regular tight interest for the third reprogramme to regular tight interest rates for the fourth reprogram are excluded from the Croatian debt", finished quote. The question arises where is Slovenia. Thus, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Montenegro, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Macedonia and the Republic of Serbia are mentioned. Now, it looks like this is how the Slovenes first looked at us, and this is where they brought the thirsty across the water. It's said on the other hand about the tight interest. I am also interested in whether the tightening interest, as is even speculated by some former members of the Croatian-Italian Commission, which was disbanded sometime in 94 or 95, will go to those 35 million dollars under the Rome Agreement of the year, if I am not mistaken, 93, and something was spoken of by Mr Mastruko, which refers to ex Yugoslavia, is called the established property of former free territory of Trieste. It means former Kotar Buje, today it is the cities of Buje, Novigrad, Umag, the municipalities of Brtonigla, Grožnjan, Oprtanj and part of Motovun. What it means is this debt that we're discussing today. So here are mentioned among other companies in the Republic of Croatia or on the ground of the Republic of Croatia. There's some I'm working on, straight mountains, Di-Parties, regeneration of Zabok, etc. Now, if those companies were alive, come on, but they probably all went bankrupt in the meantime. Otherwise, this debt should also be served by the Zagreb Bank, which is today, the note bene, in the dominant Italian ownership, and de facto through it, I dare say, the Croatian economy. Otherwise, the total debt of the Republic of Croatia towards the Italian Republic was established in the currency of the original loans, meaning the trade mark and the Italian lira and the dollar and converted total and converted to 41.9 million euros. Liabilities under this Agreement, as set out in this Treaty concerning which other transactions have been contracted or guaranteed or used by legal persons from the territory of the Republic of Croatia, amounting to 31.9m euros, will be paid by source users and guarantee banks. So that's the Zagreb bank. Obligations previously agreed or guaranteed by the former SFRY, this unallocated debt by the IMF, the Republic of Croatia takes 28.49% of outstanding debts to Italy amounting to 9 million 973 000 692 euros. This part of the debt will be paid by the Republic of Croatia on 31 January of this year for a payment of 32.8m euros, and the rest of the debt of 9 million 123 000 euros, means 48.22% of the principal is reprogrammed and made to pay each 31 January and 31 July for a period starting on 31 January 2006 and ending on 31 July 2009. Once again, I would like to point out that these are relevant amounts. Let me just have two sentences on the return of property that Mr. Mastruko said before me something. International contracts clearly have power over the law and they must not be revised, the truth on the other hand it must be another principle cannot be any selection between Austrians on the one hand, Italians, Jews, Slovenians, Americans on the other. As third, no one has received a mandate in this country to lead the country to bankruptcy. When we passed the Law in 2001 on denationalization, we all know what we voted for or what we raised our hand for. For the standard prescribed by the Constitutional Court to be between foreigners and... a citizen can't be selected. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, if I'm not mistaken and President Mesic made a similar promise to the Jews in New York last year. However, the law was passed, and I was just looking into all these phonograms under the pressure of Vicenthal from that year 2001, as America will say. Today, however, no one knows what number of people are involved in when it comes to return. As many Austrians, Jews, Americans, I would even dare say that we have the most precise figures in the Italians. It is clear as Mr. Mastruko says, the optans are solved 100% and they can only ask for their compensation in Rome for no Zagreb or Ljubljana. Croatia must return those previously mentioned $35m for this zone b, i.e. Bujština, Mr. Mastruko suggests a model of Slovenia which is fine and what should have been done or accepted in '94. when the Slovenians suggested it, however, there is another problem. Five thousand two hundred and thirty-six people who have been fired from Yugoslav citizenship, and the property of these people is nationalized. These people, according to the Croatian Law on Denationalisation, can apply. The problem is huge because almost all that property is concentrated along the coast. For example. A thousand 900 people are from Poreč, about 1,000 from Pula, about 300 from Rijeka, there are from Split, 150 from Buzet, etc., and today it is one huge capital. The truth is... The property has been taken over today by Croatian tycoons which is worse, I simply don't know, but regardless of all I want, and more than any of these legal initiatives mentioned by our media to express one caution to some Croatian government, the public, the Parliament thinks very well about what we are getting into. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No matter what our political declarations from HDZ to IDS, SDP to HNS, etc. '90s. They contained principles on the return of property, but now that we see and understand what money this is about, I'm going to say once again that we are careful and let's not forget that message. What's his name? Mrs. Merkel, the German Chancellor, who said that she, on behalf of the Germans living in the territory of the Federal Republic of Germany, is asking no one for anything but that these issues were settled during Willy Brant and some other German Chancellors... and so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In one word, gentlemen, when these relations with Italy are compared to 5 thousand 236 people who have been released from Yugoslav citizenship, they are not optanists, their property has been nationalised and this country can easily face some thousand 500 to 2,000 demands.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53925	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53926	Your Honor, Mr. President. I'm correcting two incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague of Cain. The first is an incorrect allegation that internationally concluded contracts cannot be changed. They can be changed in a way and procedure as they are concluded. Another incorrect allegation said Croatia should pay those $35m. Our amendment when we put it on the budget was to immediately be paid into a special account, for example. Slovenia did, and it would already... It's settled. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53927	Secretary of State Ante Zigman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53928	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So first of all, I would refer to what Mr. Cain said. So, as far as Slovenia is concerned, and why Slovenia is not covered there. The point is that Slovenia continued to pay off its debt the whole time, the other countries stopped paying off their debt in 1991. Why does January 31st 2006 reach such a large amount, so almost 32m euros? The reason is, therefore, that according to the Law on Implementation, the way and conditions of settlement of liabilities by loans and other transactions and agreements with the governments of the Parisian... which this esteemed House confirmed on April 25, '96. A year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, since January 31st, so '98. The payments start, then Croatia for the first time in some way, not in some way, but also became financially independent and got a commercial credit rating for the first time. That's why they mention banks, here to say that banks will continue to pay their share of commercial debt further, and the Republic of Croatia, as agreed by the Paris... will continue to pay only that part of the unaligned debt. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The allocated debt will, of course, be paid by those who need and pay the debt. So in this tranche, around 24.6m euros is waste on the part that has been allocated while 8.2m euros is being waste on the state, so that part that is unalected. And what I'd like to mention in the end. So this is a commercial relationship, a relationship with commercial companies and a debt that has absolutely nothing to do with the recovery of assets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53929	Thank you. HDZ club respected representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53930	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Act confirming the Agreement of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Italian Republic has its basis in Article 139. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. In complex and long-term negotiations, the Republic of Croatia concluded a debt reprogramming agreement in March 1995. a harmonised minutes with 15 Member States of the Paris Club. During the coming years, the Republic of Croatia conducted bilateral negotiations with each country of the Paris Club and concluded bilateral agreements with all but the Italian Republic. Negotiations with the Italian Republic were concluded at the beginning of December 2005 and the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a report by the Ministry of Finance on the negotiations made for the conclusion of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Italian Republic on the consolidation of the debt of the Republic of Croatia. The same conclusion also accepted an improved draft agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Italian Republic on the consolidation of the debt of the Republic of Croatia and an accompanying letter with an agreement which is of great importance for the debt consolidation agreement. The proposed Law attesting the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Italian Republic on the consolidation of the debt of the Republic of Croatia provides for issues, namely the first confirmation of the debt consolidation agreement, the second way of settlement of financial obligations arising from the Republic of Croatia as debtors and guarantors under the debt consolidation agreement. Third, jurisdiction over the implementation of the debt consolidation agreement. The total debt of the Republic of Croatia by the Paris Club, which means 15 countries, is around 735m euros, of which around 47% or 346m euros have already been paid to date. In 2006, 71m euros are charged and the rest of the debt will be settled by 2009, as foreseen by the payment plan set out in the harmonised minutes. The total debt of the Republic of Croatia to the Italian Republic was determined by the currencies of original loans, German marks, Italian lira and US dollars, and converted to a total of 41.9m euros. Under the law on the way of settlement of commitments by loans and other transactions and agreements with the Governments of the Paris Club and the basis of the final negotiations, the agreement on the consolidation of the debt of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia took place under the first loan and other transactions agreed or guaranteed by or used by legal persons from the territory of the Republic of Croatia to Italy of 31.9m euros. The debt will be paid by source users and guarantee banks. On the other hand, the obligations previously agreed or guaranteed by the former SFRY and which cannot be directly attributed to any of the countries that follow the former SFRY, hence the outstanding debt and the debt criterion of the International Monetary Fund has been shared between all the countries of the former Yugoslavia. With this criterion, the Republic of Croatia took over 28.9% of the outstanding debt amounting to 9.9m euros in Italy. This debt will be paid by the Republic of Croatia in such a way that it is reprogrammed and arrives for payment every 31 January and 31 July in a period beginning on 31 January 2006 and ending on 31 July 2009. As regards non-consolidated debts completed after 2 December 1982, the financial conventions regulated by the accompanying letter of the agreement are therefore the Medio Bank of Milan’s financial convention 50 million dollars, the Medio Financial Convention credited to the central 86 billion Italian lira, the Medio Financial Convention credited to the central 30 million US dollars and the Medio Financial Convention credited to the central 80 billion dollars. It is necessary to say that for the first three financial conventions it has been found that Italy has no claim towards the Republic of Croatia while for the Financial Convention Medio credito central Rome of 80 billion Italian liras the remaining debt established in the amount of 6.7 million Italian liras and this debt will continue to be served under the original conditions. In line with the above, we believe that the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Italian Republic on the consolidation of the debt of the Republic of Croatia is very favourable. It is a good agreement, not touching other relations between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Italy. On the contrary, one of the inherited problems is solved and the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the adoption of a law on the confirmation of the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53931	Thank you. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53932	Well, Mr. President, first of all, I'd like to comment on what the esteemed colleague Cain said about Angela Merkle's statement. Unfortunately, the item of the agenda that I have proposed and which would be reduced to adopting the government's conclusions on the resolution of the whole package is 60th place, so probably before autumn will not come to order, and therefore I will say that what Angela Merkel said did not say to her because that day came to mind, but on the basis of a special protocol on the completion of the occupation regime in the Federal Republic of Germany signed in Paris on 23 October 1954 at the first point of the Federal Republic of Germany Protocol in order to resolve the occupation regime, she gave up all possible judicial claims and participation in judicial proceedings that could possibly be sought by her citizens in any country of winners in World War II. And in general, Mr. President, it would be important to push that point forward a little bit because a large number of problems would be solved or at least move it against that proposal for a partnership law proposed by Shime Lucin and Ivo Banac. And now for the praise of our negotiators you know. He says it's a technical paper. We can be satisfied. We're starting to solve a problem. I wouldn't agree with that, you know. The Paris Club is a club of religious states and functions as a kind of modern inter-state racketeering club as the London Club functions as a club of bank creditors of racketeeres. If you look at negotiating with Paris, the Paris Club, then you will see that Serbia was not only obliged to pay tight and ordinary interest, but it was written off 70% of the debt compared to the Priški Club. So if you're carefully reading here the negotiation procedure then you can see that it's... , the start of the payment of the debt by the Croatian side represented the the thesis that the Italians were guilty. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Italians, of course, said it was our fault, and then we agreed halfway to our damage. I am generally pleased that Mr. Ivica Mastruko, his Excellency, has read this paper of mine that will come to debate after autumn because it is unacceptable to talk again on Croatian television about Ezulls. Look at the notion of optanists is the only politically correct term and it is historically correct and it is methodologically correct. We can only talk about optants and possibly the part of refugees. It is not because they so nominate themselves in the comments both of the ministers and of the Prime Ministers and of the Prime Minister. As for assessing the importance of, for example, the protest of the Generals in front of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I would recommend that this is not always the case. These are internal things ahead of the election of another country. It should be very sensitive to the words especially that the Ottana organizations are perfectly organized and in this sense they have already turned it into a type of very militant state policy that manifests itself in all different ways of pressure on Croatia, so if you want the pressure seen with the delay of taking over the credentials of our new ambassador in Italy. A further point that is very important, as regards re-termination means in Croatian legal tradition when it comes to accounting and documents, is always referred to instead of consolidation of arrangements or in this case of coordination. Therefore, you will also see in the text inside that our signatories have adopted even an Italian shortcut for their Foreign Affairs Insurance Agency and if Croatia's AI could be used instead of their SACE keys. And in that sense, I would return here to correcting Mr. Pera Kovacevic's wrong quote. On my initiative the HSP Club was accepted, let's say some kind of trade amendment for St. Gera and those 35 million debts to the optanists, and I have to repeat once again that we've been cheated. I don't like to be fooled, and this is about breaking the State Budget Act and this, this opportunity should be used the way the Slovenians did. But now we have a concrete methodological lesson. Let the finance gentlemen concentrate a little bit. Article 4 says that the Croatian government will take over the AIP obligation, says SACE that the bank account that AIP delivers to it will settle the interest. I'd like to ask that same bank account to be paid 30 million dollars. This will solve the double problem that in future negotiations that will be seen again, we will consider the Italian side wrong, they will consider us and we will break it halfway, but here we have a concrete methodological guide. And the last thing I'm going to say, which hurt me a little bit, is that on one equal level in, here in the first part of this document mentions the signature and excellency of the Italian ambassador on behalf of the Italian Republic, our minister and Frana Lukovic. You know, I was writing about Euros the other day. People who are modelled by recent Hungarians, national Croats, but are essentially representatives of foreign economic, financial and other interests. There are them on different sides, and in this sense, a little more sensitivity and a little more self-worth, especially if I think Italy has gone too far. I am from the end of an exceptional sensitivity to Italians' boast and the last sentence that I will say about a quiet restitution that happens in a place that is very well known in Italy, Istria, I thought that the Italian Union received a concession on one of the beautiful, one of the most beautiful palaces in Istria but yesterday, I found out that even garnered into it yesterday. Therefore, the the thesis that Croatia should show a gesture towards the Italians here is shown as a cruel reality. So Euro logic, that's a given logic, that logic of petty mixing, I don't think it can be tolerated anymore, and we have a painful experience with an attempt by a bank in foreign ownership that, by one racist principle, the lower interest rates of potential Croatian optanists. Those who would declare themselves members
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53933	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53934	Dear Representative Letica said about it, not nearly, but I literally quote that "The Paris Club is a racketeering club that eventually wrote off the debt to Serbia," a quote said. First of all, I think of one too many claims, and certainly also incorrect. Serbia's debt was written off, primarily a reward to the Belgrade regime for sending Milosevic to The Hague, the changes that took place there. Another Serbia was almost bankrupt. It is as if someone borrows money or better said gives money, which is a kind of reward for the co-operation of the regime towards the European Union. However, no matter what I think, this qualification of the racketeering club is too brave because the Republic of Croatia will continue to address these findings among other things and the institution of the Paris Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53935	This isn't a correction to an incorrect quote. This is one explanation, commentary, thinking, and what to do? Like someone said. Should that be punished by the Rules of Procedure? Or what to do, Mr. Cain? ... State Secretary Ante Zigman, final review. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53936	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, I'd like to finish just a few reviews. First of all, it's about the last country inside the Paris Club that's been solved. I think the people who ran the negotiations and worked on this successfully did the job. In fact, after nine years, all debt data, including tight interest, have been harmonised for the first time. Debt on long-term stay under the '87 Refinancing Agreement, thus former SFRY. And '89. A year. So, which was supposed to be paid by the former National Bank of Yugoslavia. By excluding certain categories of debt, former SOUR debt “Concar” and by agreeing on a 1.7m-euro debt waiver. This is the first time any debt within the Paris Club has been forgiven to the Republic of Croatia. Croatia has therefore reduced the debt of nearly 10m euros in these negotiations, and the people who have worked on it certainly deserve to be praised in this regard. Furthermore, I would only repeat once again that it is primarily a commercial debt and that in this sense it is respected, therefore, and resolved that part of the relationship with Italy in that sense and in some ways this provides a basis for improving both business and other relations, so the Republic of Croatia and Italy. So, I wouldn't, I'd look back here and then one part that was said to violate the Budget Law here. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The budget includes the amount on the side of the payment, for the payment of the Paris Club, as the item adopted by this esteemed House on 29.11.2005. So, in any case, I would say in the end that this Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Italian Republic on the consolidation of the debt of the Republic of Croatia by the Paris Club. Therefore, the commercial part of the job needs to be confirmed in an emergency procedure because the 1995 law provides for payment to be made at the end of January, the second at the end of July, so that payment is made on 31 January 2006. Because again I'm talking about successful negotiations. Those who owe and the debt is allocated therefore to them, they will continue to repay their debt. The part of the debt that is not allocated, which is not possible, will continue to be paid by the Republic of Croatia. What is important, therefore, is the remainder of 9 million and 100000 euros will be reprogrammed and reached so from 31 July 2006 to 31 July 2009, when payments to the Paris Club end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53937	Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53938	A young colleague was probably focused. I did not say that this law violates the Budget Law, but that, not by payment based on the amendments adopted in this House, it violates the law. That's what I was talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53939	I'm closing the debate. Fourth. Final proposal of the Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Italian Republic on the consolidation of the debt of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. With 99 votes for and 3 abstentions passed the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53942	Mr. President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. On 23 June 2005, the Croatian Government adopted a decision to initiate the procedure for the conclusion of a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the project “Croatian Roads – Split bypass”. The mandated delegation held final negotiations with the EIB on 29 and 30 June 2005, and the government adopted a delegation's report on lead negotiations with the European Investment Bank on 8 July and authorised the Minister of Finance to sign the Guarantee Treaty. The contract was signed on 20 July 2005 in Split. With the guarantee agreement whose confirmation is proposed for the adoption of this law, the Republic of Croatia guarantees the full and timely settlement of all obligations of the borrower of the Croatian Roads by loan of 60m euros for the Split bypass project as agreed by the Finance Treaty between the European Investment Bank and the Croatian Roads. By a 60m-euro loan, the European Investment Bank will co-finance the 203m-euro Split bypass project. The loan is granted on a 25-year maturity starting at a fixed interest rate of 24.5.2005, which was 3,89% or variable interest rate according to the choice of the borrower and without the usual credit costs. The loan will be available for use as soon as the Guarantee Treaty enters into force and will be used from 31 December 2009, until 31 December 2009, when the project is planned to be completed. The project “Split bypasses” includes three shares of a total length of 31.3 km on which an existing stake will be restored and built new on the journey from Planog to Kaštel Sucurc in the length of 11.1 km, building a new fast road with two wheels from Stobrec to Dugi Rat in length 13.9 km, and building a new fast road with one wheel from Long War to Omis in length 6.7 km. The reconstruction and construction of the Split bypass is envisaged by the construction, maintenance of public roads from 2005 to 2008 and is planned for a deficit for Croatian roads. It is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to adopt, following an urgent procedure, the proposed Act on the Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the Project “Croatian Roads – Split bypass”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53943	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? Maritime, transport, connections, finances, state budget, legislation. There's no occupation. I'm opening a debate. The club of IDS MPs is a respected representative of Dorotea Pesic Bukovac. Here you go. ... They're not going to give it, they're going to give it how well it's written. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Here you go, pals. Now you colleagues would take part in the debate. He can't. Five minutes can end.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53944	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the ministry. We at the IDS Club will support this Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the project "Croatian Roads – Split bypass". We are aware that in every country the road means life. We are also aware that our government is, that our government treats someone as a mother, and that our government is worse than a stepmother. For example, Split bypass is built on the projection of average annual daily traffic. Watch the 2020 projection. We must not forget that, also according to Split, the highway was built in a full 380km profile, and it is necessary to pay for those kilometres of 157 kuna, and given that no traffic on that highway is being made during the winter period, it is, of course, considered to reduce the toll so that traffic is still directed on that highway, and not that only the radishes are now driving on it. Unlike Split, I will give you an example of the Poreč and the Rijeka detours. As far as the IRS is concerned, we must be aware that the town of Poreč in the Republic of Croatia is making 15% of the total overnight stay, and thus 15% of the foreign exchange turnover, which would be somewhere at 700 million dollars, and has been waiting for the bypass for 30 years. In the current plan of the Croatian roads, the settlement is only a fiction because no funds are planned at all, and during the summer we know how this area is crawling with traffic. The biggest and most expensive toll tax is paid in Istria. The example through Učka tunnel, which is five kilometers long, is paid 28 kuna, and 14 kuna is paid across the bridge in Mirna. The bridge is 1.5 kilometers long, which means you pay 42 kuna for 6.5 kilometers. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I have a duty and a duty to address here as the President of the City Council of the City of Rijeka and to express my dissatisfaction with the neglect of Rijeka as a road traffic route. I would also like to warn that the Rijeka bypass was also designed 30 years ago, and already today there is an average annual daily traffic of about 30,000 vehicles per day, and during the summer, it means the tourist season of 40,000 vehicles, which is the number of vehicles standing in the projection of the Split bypass. These are indicators that absolutely justify the need for a more urgent conclusion of the Rijeka bypass, because certainly an existing bypass which, by the way, has already become a city street, should be completed and built to the end in full profile because it has become a narrow traffic greek. That this government has no intention of building a river bypass speaks, because Croatian roads on the ground only work symbolically, and also in the budget of Croatian roads everything is planned 90 million kunas of the necessary 400, so there are two thirds of the money missing. It means that only one-third of the work is likely to take place. Nothing is better when it comes to calling the River-Zagreb highway. We're really wondering if there's something on the freeway, and there's 100 kilometers of highway in full profile, and 60 fast roads, and that's all paying 56 kuna. I do not want to talk or talk about the direction of Rijeka-Zagreb is the breadth of the housewives and that on that road perhaps the biggest traffic in Croatia was personal, transit or transport, and the question is again why we do not have a full profile of the road or why we will last get a full profile of the road. Well, let me finish. We in IDS have no objection to the proposal to reduce the toll on Split-Zagreb stock or to issue a guarantee for the Split bypass, we really don't mind. But we advocate to primarily build a river bypass and reduce the toll on the Rijeka-Zagreb stock, reduce the tunnel on Učka tunnel and reduce the bridge on the Mirna viaduct, because let us not forget that all these areas are in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53945	Thank you. On behalf of the club of Independent Representatives, the esteemed representative Branimir Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53946	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Independent Club, I'll say a few words. I don't think there's much to say, it's all clear and not just from this move, but from the two-year conduct of this government. So it's clear what the priorities are. State priorities are where the prime minister comes from. It's irrefutable, clear and absolutely correct, fellow behind your back. 100m euros for a Split bypass. We're not against it. We are not against it, we need Split's bypass, they need 100m euros in Dalmatia to place and build another city in the size of a modern bypass, but I wonder where our place is, us and Slavonia and Baranja. And I repeat, and confirm what my colleague said before me, that we disagree that the Croatian state will be someone's mother and someone's stepmother. In 1997, with my great efforts while acting as Osijek-Baranja Mayor of Osijek often knocking on the door of the first Croatian President of Dr Franjo Tudjman, we were able to obtain his consent and order then to the government of HDZ, Prime Minister Matesha, to set out to build a western bypass around Osijek. The entire section of the western bypass around Osijek is about 22, 23 kilometers away. Only last year, i.e. during last coalition government, I think in 2003 the first phase of the 10, 11km-long stock was completed around the City of Osijek. Not a full profile but a modest, poor one, as has been set aside for the east of Croatia so far, but I am grateful that part of the job has been done and that part of the job has ended during the last coalition government. So, starting in 97 and vegetating and 3.4 years of HDZ authorities, but symbolically and before and in the name of the election, election promises in 97, we threw that first shovel of concrete even though we didn't have any projects or other project minimum documentation to start with. So I'm grateful to the furniture that came in 2000 for not stopping that project. But she kept doing it and ended it in her term. We're trying to finish this project. I was hoping in November, December 2003, there was furniture and a political option whose support I was. The loud agitator will finish that part of the deal in record time, record time and finish that stock from 10, 11 kilometers through Drava, through Baranja around Darda, which will give Osijek-Baranja County, Osijek City, Slavonia a capital facility. At least a road that's not full of profile. But that's not what happened. Not only did it not happen, but what was promised, which was not done. So today, a bit of a tangle around the stock, occasionally come with political speeches during election campaigns to put out the fires, promising the end of the stock. Late work already, again a year. So, the end of one section, the road, the bypasses around the City of Osijek symbolically compared to this money needed for the Split bypass. Which I repeat once again that I wouldn't be called tomorrow if I were against building a Split bypass, no, it's an incomparable sum. So, Osijek, Slavonia, and here I hear Istria, and other parts of Croatia such capital investments are not possible. We all have to wait patiently for better times. I don't know when those better times will come. Someone will say, you're building corridor 5C. Corridor 5C is not a program or the wetlands of this government or any other Croatian government. This is the international obligation of the Republic of Croatia. about this, it is perfectly normal for Croatia to build its course, its 120km corridor 5C that passes through the Republic of Croatia. It's perfectly normal, but it's not normal to rebuild in Slavia among the last, to separate the money from the last. That practically corridor 5C hasn't even started to build yet. They'll say, it's starting to build. Well, I assure you, there's no real route yet. You still don't know with 100% certainty where that corridor will go. That's all we're talking about, that's what only the media shows up at times when political fires are to be put out in certain parts of Croatia, so now also in Slavonia. So, the western tour of Osijek must wait for some other time or God forbid, it must wait when Slavonac may become Croatian prime minister. Perhaps then it will be a priority to build road infrastructure in Slavonia. I am not a representative of these thesis and these theories or of such behaviour of the current or future state leadership. That one who behaves responsible, leading functions in the Croatian state behaves in a way that drags everyone into his yard or into his constituency. I already agree that the Republic of Croatia is truly developing evenly. All parts of Croatia get equal, or as much as possible. To be equal in wealth and poverty. Therefore, I support this task, and we will raise our hand for Dalmatia, for the sake of the Dalmatian man, to show them and to prove to them in a concrete example that we are not jealous and envious of building road infrastructure at an accelerated pace, in Dalmatia and towards the far south. But we are clearly and loudly saying that we disagree with being on the turnip. Allow it and let it not be misread. I'll ask you a question. Is it that much of a priority building a bridge on Peljesac? Is that exactly the number one priority when it comes to hundreds and hundreds of millions of euros? The moment Croatia enters the European Union, the moment it is clear to everyone and everyone knows that borders are deleted between countries. Isn't it an economic priority, for example, that I don't mind being singled out and mentioning one from the middle from which I come, the construction of the Danube-Sava channel? Isn't that economic priority number one when you're getting close to this? I say it is. There are probably other priorities in the Republic of Croatia but this is an absolute priority compared to for example building a bridge on Peljesc as a state priority. There are far higher priorities in this country. One of these priorities is the construction of the Danube-Sava channel especially when it is known that the Croatian government also highlighted the Croatian Democratic Community in the pre-election campaign as a priority for the construction of water supply systems, a water irrigation system, as a prerequisite for addressing the problem of agriculture in the Croatian state. Therefore, these are the things that are pricked by the eyes, these are the things that show that we are not all equal and are not all equal when a state cookie is shared and therefore I appeal to both you and to the Croatian Government to think carefully about the relationship to care and care, according to all parts of the Republic of Croatia equally and evenly and on a concrete example prove and show that it really wants to do so and lead this country. I'll also mention only a case of gasification. The other day I watched on TV, the prime minister organised a working meeting with the mayors, the topic of gasification of the Republic of Croatia, I called my mayor, I didn't see him on TV, I asked the mayor "Do you get a call for a meeting from the prime minister, the topic is very important, the topic we announced in the elections and while we were in HDZ, the gasification of Baranja. There are no meters of gas pipelines in Baranja, but there is a prerequisite for the development of the economy of gasification, a prerequisite, without it, there is no solution to the minimum of economic problems." The mayor says, "No, I'm not called." The mayor hasn't been called. Osijek-Baranja Mayor who announces and advocates that Baranja is gassed as soon as possible. It's not just a mayoral and county programme, it's a Croatian government programme that we've all advocated together, but obviously that the mayor of Osijek-Baranja is a persona non grata in the Banski dvori. He does not need to participate in the talks on the problems of the gasification of the Republic of Croatia for which Slavonac shed blood, which Slavonac bloodyly paid, whose price he bloodyly paid and actively participated in the creation. These are things we're not going to make peace with, and we're going to point to at the cost of coming at us even more repressive than we've seen in the past months and years. We will not deal with it, we will not accept it and we will not be silent about it, but we will raise our hand for the post in order for the city of Split to have a quality solution to the transport infrastructure. Thank you very much, and I'll use the next five minutes as there will be a need to correct incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53947	You have to fill out the application. I thank the honourable representative. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Bekavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53948	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will correct the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague who said that state priorities are those from where the prime minister comes from. That's absolutely not true. The state priority for this government and for President Sanader is the development of the entire Croatia and this is not questionable, it is seen at every step from Slavonia, Istria, Dalmatia, and as regards the Split bypass it is necessary because Split is the third port in the Mediterranean by the number of passengers and other city in Croatia that has been neglected for years in the construction of transport infrastructure, and it is incorrect to attack the prime minister and government in the context of the construction of the Split bypass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53949	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Your Honor. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Your Honor, Mr. Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53950	Injury of Rule 209 of the Rules of Procedure A gentleman named Bekavac reads me lessons as to whether it is correct or incorrect to attack the prime minister. He wasn't correcting my allegations, he was giving me a lecture on whether I was correct or incorrectly calling the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53951	In one part he corrected your claim about him incorrectly. Correction of the incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53952	Mr. Vice President. I am correcting the incorrect quote of Glavas where he claimed that the state priorities were those from where the prime minister came from. It is quite incorrect and I can support the fact that the state priorities are throughout the Republic of Croatia, and I will also specify the environment from which I come, which is also Slavonska. The construction of a bypass around the town of Virovitica, which is in full phase and will be completed in the 8th month for the day of the city as well as the documentation, as well as the means for the export of land for the northern bypass as well as the bypass of the town of Slatina and the overpass... approach. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I can only argue that in this incorrect quote that I am correcting, I am certainly speaking in fact, without Mr. Glavas not only incorrectly stating but also lying to the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53953	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53954	Mr. Djakic injured Article 209. He's applied for a correction of an incorrect allegation, and he didn't do it. I believe he didn't do it on purpose, we just met at the bar, I saw that his concentration was low, he probably confused the tiles.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53955	I'm asking for some concentration and focus on correcting the incorrect allegations. Next breach of the Rules of Procedure, Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53956	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You saw me lift this tile. Infringement of Rules of Procedure 209, but indeed this was not in the previous correction of the incorrect assumption of correcting an incorrect assumption, it was an indication of someone's thinking. And the second violation of the Rules of Procedure which you have done, Mr. Vice President, because you have not said a warning or a second time, but you tolerate in this assembly the abuse of the institute of correcting an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53957	In the first and second cases, I explained and said that I felt that it was not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. If you're unhappy with my explanation then the other procedure you know, and I really saw that you've done some damage to the Rules of Procedure, but I thought you two agreed to one, here's what I thought. Here's the 209th Rules of Procedure, and I don't think so. You may request the opinion of the Committee. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53958	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In order to correct the same incorrect allegations, I must first of all commend Prime Minister Ivo Sanader because as a 17-year-old there in 70th, 71st, he raised the entire Croatian people to their feet and... They are for the construction of the Zagreb- Split highway. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53959	Representative Markovanovic, don't. Let's focus on correcting an incorrect quote and not under the institute of correcting an incorrect quote... Prime Minister. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53960	Thank you to your colleagues for their loud approval, but allow me to move on. And the same singing coalition power stopped, and the money went missing, and went east, which was collected so they could. It seems then that Prime Minister Sanader is also from Krapina, from Varazdin, Virovitica, Sisak, so the man is really from everywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53961	What did you fix? ... Injury of the Rules of Procedure, whether both or one. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53962	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Again, article 209 and, unfortunately, I must in some way abuse the time of these colleagues and colleagues. You've hurt your rules of procedure again because you're letting everyone here in the assembly take the right to say what they think or what they like. Mr. Markovanovic can... They're shutting me down. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] So, private "face to face" with Mr. Prime Minister but... MPs to listen to these praises about the prime minister or the mutual praise between him and the prime minister and to waste time. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] I ask you, as Vice-President of the Parliament, to stick to the Rules of Procedure and to prevent this kind of reporting and violation of the institution of correction of an incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53963	Thank you. He once told the president of the parliament that he should have a commission to determine whether an incorrect quote has been corrected or not. The esteemed representative Markovanovic, in my opinion, corrected part of the incorrect allegations, part of a really little abuse of the Rules of Procedure. I'm gonna start sharing notes. Correction of an incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Glavas. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53964	Mr. Markovanovic hurt his rules of procedure because, by injuring his rules of procedure or by lifting up a plate of corrections to an incorrect quote, he actually made an incorrect claim. When he mentioned for seventeen years he thought of the edge of Racan and the beginning of the construction of the highway and not of Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53965	Thank you. I still believe that the esteemed representative Markovanovic corrected the incorrect allegations, but his introduction was little. Let's move on. Correction of an incorrect quote, please! Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53966	Mr. Markovanovic violated Article 209. He reported for a correction of an incorrect allegation, and it was not a correction of an incorrect allegation but a grandening of a prime minister who, at the age of seventeen, began to build a highway. As far as I know, our highway wasn't built at the time, only if the gentleman might be thinking of that Belgrade-Nish.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53967	So the same explanation to you as your colleagues in the bench. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Nenadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53968	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, though, I will, in another context, correct Mr. Glavas' allegations that this Split bypass is being built because Prime Minister Sanader is from Split. I'm making this right. That's not true. And I am correcting not because of Prime Minister Sanader, because he knows how to defend himself, but because of Split. This may at least serve Split because this bypass is from Trogir to Omis and if there were no tourists from all over Croatia, from Europe and beyond then this bypass might not be necessary. So it's just called the Split bypass and that's one, the priority of Split, actually it's one of the state priorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53969	Thank you. And I think this was a typical correction to an incorrect quote. But we do have a breach of our rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53970	Well, he wasn't exactly typical of why I never said I was against the road, and Mr. Nenadic is trying to present that I was against the road. Therefore, he misused the Rules of Procedure and misrepresents my presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53971	It is not about the injury of the Rules of Procedure and the honourable representative Nenadic did not say that you are against the bypass but that it is not built because it is the prime minister from Split. ... I'm going to start giving you some warning, too. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Injury of the Rules of Procedure, here you go!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53972	Mr Nenadic has sinned against the Rules of Procedure in Article 209. He insists, like his party colleagues, that he is our club and that Mr. Glavas spoke against the rules of procedure or against the Split bypass. Although that is not true by saying that we will support this point of the agenda, that we will be in favour. So I don't think you should use a pay phone to tell the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53973	I am again saying that this is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure because the honourable representative Nenadic did not speak of it. Likewise, the esteemed representative, Glavas, has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. And we're moving on. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Sopčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53974	Dear colleague Glavas said, quote – We are not all equal, not all of us – alluding to the construction of a Split bypass. That's not true because other investments are going. I can tell about the investment from my constituency. It is the construction of the Zagreb-Rijeka highway in full profile as building access roads, which is very important for this part of Croatia as well. Also, it should not be disturbed from the mind that Split is the second city in Croatia where absolute traffic logic is the construction of another city's bypass in size in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53975	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the Honorable Representative, Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53976	Mr. Sopčić abuses his rules of procedure under the cover of correcting the incorrect allegations and correcting my opinion. Therefore, you are obliged to warn him not to abuse the Institute of Correction of the False Allegation because he did not correct the incorrect allegations but my position, my opinion. [[Intruder: What opinion cannot be corrected?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53977	I do not think the Rules of Procedure have been injured and ask for the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Šišljagic. ... Injury of the Rules of Procedure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53978	It's not a correction to an incorrect quote, and we didn't make a deal, but you see, we raised this tile for the same thing, so I'm not going to repeat myself. I'd like to add just one suggestion. In view of a number of these reports of corrections to incorrect allegations that are not so I suggest Mr. Vice President to organise for those who do not know what is the correcting of the incorrect quote one short course and, by quick, quick procedure, perhaps the next day. If not tonight.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53979	Your Honor, we all know in this Chamber what is the correction of the incorrect allegations and what is the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and you, if you do not know what is the violation of the Rules of Procedure, can organise a course. Apprenticed Representative Franjo Arabović, correction of the incorrect quote. [[You'll have to pay for that.]] Or ask for the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53980	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll quote Mr. Glavas when he said that the former HDZ government in Osijek-Baranja County did nothing, and we know who was the leading HDZ man in that county. If the coalition government had come and made that... Which I personally saw, the bypass, means it's good now that Mr. Glavas isn't in HDZ that we're going to expand and build. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53981	Thank you. Let's move on. The word is, it looks like we've learned what a correction to an incorrect quote is, no one's answering. The next is the distinguished representative of the Crown Peronja. Here you go. ... In the name of the club, but it doesn't say anything here, in the name of the club. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[- Intruder. Yes, it is. On behalf of the club.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53982	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53983	Just a second. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53984	Mr. Chairman, Vice President of the Parliament. You yourself said that it did not say in which capacity he applied, so you cannot give a word to Mr. Crown Peronj, Peronja, as spokeswoman of the HDZ Club. ... If it's not written. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53985	Dear Representative Kruno Peronja on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53986	Mr. Vice-President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues is precisely this project that is ahead of us, whose contract we have and negotiations on this big project began at the time I was mayor, it was before 2003, and the need for the most densely populated agglomeration in Croatia to be modernly connected, from Trogir, Kaštel, Solin, Long War, Omis. It is over 230 thousand inhabitants and the requirement of this bypass as we have popularly called it is precisely why for the development of the economy, for better traffic of goods, services and capital. When we look at the shipyard in Trogir, the shipyard in Split and the two shipyards and people who do not live in Trogir or Split already live in other parts of Split-Dalmatin County. That is exactly what we were asked to put forward an emphasis on how and how to obtain the most favourable means to start, of course, not only with the County funds, but with the funds and the Croatian Government from the State budget, and this is exactly the way. Therefore, we have informed the European Investment Banks, which has visited Split-Dalmatin County several times, about every detail, about the number of employees, national income, tourist capacities, marinas, dry marinas, and this is exactly the proposal that lies ahead of us. The goal that is to be achieved is very simple because the law here confirms the loan guarantee contract agreed between the European Investment Bank and the Croatian Roads d.o.o. and that is exactly the Croatian road detour project. What I want to point out once again is precisely the urgency of the Croatian government, the modern administration. Here's one of them is also our secretary of state who has shown that they can rule the standards of negotiating and negotiating with experts from Europe and in this particular banking segment. The European Bank has expressed its readiness to co-finance the Croatian Roads project, a Split bypass consisting of 3 shares of a total length of 31.3km. And it's Kaštel-Suchurac-Plana in the length of 11.1 kilometers. When we mention that part, then we cannot mention the Zagreb-Split highway, or further, because exactly Prgomet-Plano, that part of the highway will connect the state road, so to speak. Split bypass. So those who want to go to Trogir or Kaštel should not now go to Klis and come from Klis via Solin to Kaštel, which has more than 35,000 inhabitants. Through Solin, which has 20 and a few thousand inhabitants, rather than a very simple fast roadway to land. Equally, Stobreć-Long War of 13.9 kilometers, Long War-Omiš in the length of 6.7 kilometers which is a very difficult route but I believe that the works for section 1 Planl-Kaštel Suchurac include the process of improving the existing southern stake and building a new northern stake. The works for Part 2 include the construction of a new road with two wheels, and the works for Section 3 include the construction of a new road with an equal stake. The start of construction works is right this year, and the end and release of the bypass is scheduled by 2009. And all according to the road development programme that we brought for the period 2004-2009, so that the already permanent framework is complete with this particular investment. The total value of the works of the construction of the bypass is estimated at 203 million 84 000 and 6 EUR, and the investor works is the company of the Croatian road. The project will be co-financed by the EIB, the European Bank of Investments of 60 million. Of course, according to the terms offered, the European Investment Bank has been entrusted to the Croatian Roads company with trust just that company because it will be approved for 25 years with a start of 5 years. The funds will be available immediately after the guarantee contract comes into effect, and the use of credit funds is foreseen by the end of 2009. It is therefore essential that this law be confirmed today. This is one of the priorities of the public road construction and maintenance programme for the period I repeat, 2005-2008 and the strategic objectives are set by those relating to the resolution of just the most critical shares and facilities with particular emphasis on the settlement of road infrastructure in the suburban and urban areas and the quality of the island's integration with the mainland and the construction of the Split bypass will meet this goal. This is because it is precisely responsibility in a decentralisation sense that shifts to counties and cities that need to understand responsibility for their own development and helps the Croatian government to meet these goals. After the merger of the northern south, the Zagreb-Split road continues to build the homeland and will reach Ploč tomorrow, and in a short time Dubrovnik. Of course there is special weight in this loan and in this law because the European Investment Bank, i.e. the financial institution of the European Union has granted this loan under the same conditions as those of the Member States of the European Union. Excellent recognition not only of Croatian roads d.o.o. rather than the Croatian Government, the Croatian Parliament, because it means we gain trust even before formal entry into our European family. This is therefore an opportunity to thank again everyone who participated in it because the Republic of Croatia's efforts have been rewarded on the way to full membership. I believe that finally the European Investment Bank, which has so far provided funds for large infrastructure projects, will continue to work together. Of course, it is important for us to continue these projects, because this is a confirmation that I repeat my confidence in our financial institutions, in our companies, because it is on the way most gratefully to start precisely concrete and desirable works. In view of the nature of the process of confirming international contracts and formally expressing its willingness to be bound by an already signed international contract, as well as the fact that, at this stage of the procedure, no amendments or additions to the text of the international contract can normally be made, this proposal for a law is proposed to be discussed and adopted by an urgent procedure precisely harmonising first and second reading. I hope that the other parts of our country will follow this clear procedure and call for us to strengthen responsibility, we need to know about our own environment in which we are developing and I believe that the support of the Croatian Government and this Croatian House will not be left behind.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53987	Thank you. On behalf of the HSP club, distinguished representative Vlado Jukic. ... You said it on behalf of the club? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We're moving on to an individual debate. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The word has a distinguished representative, Marijan Bekavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53988	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Proposal for a law confirming the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the project "Croatian Roads – Split bypass", with the Final Proposal of the Law, is today ahead of us in the Parliament. With the guarantee agreement for which this law is proposed, the Republic of Croatia guarantees the full and timely settlement of all obligations of the borrower of the Croatian Roads by loan of 60m euros for the Split bypass project as agreed by the financing agreement between the EIB and the Croatian Roads. In a 60m-euro loan, the EIB will co-finance a 203m-euro Split bypass project. The loan is granted on a 25-year maturity with a starting date of 5 years with a fixed interest rate of 24.5.2005. 3.89%. The loan will be available for use as soon as the guarantee contract enters into force, and would be used until 31 December 2009 when the project is planned to be completed. It should certainly be pointed out here that this is for the first time that Croatia will receive a loan from the European Union under the conditions under which the loans are granted by the European Union countries. This is proof that the European Union has confidence in the Croatian government and that the Croatian government has done a really good job of approaching the European Union in the past. The Split bypass project includes three shares of a total length of 31.3 kilometers on which an existing stake will be restored and a new one will be built from Kaštel Sucurca to Planog, a new fast road with two wheels from Stobrec to Dugi Rat and built a new fast road with one stake from Long War to Omis. The construction of the Split bypass is also essential not only for Split but also for Trogir, Kastela, Solin and all places along the Adriatic highway from Split to Omis. We are witnessing kilometers of columns in the tourist season that are truly unsustainable. Split is the third port in the Mediterranean after the transport of passengers and vehicles, so such traffic plugs are inevitable. This project permanently resolves the transport infrastructure of Split... The importance of this capital facility is best known to citizens of the cities I have already mentioned. Also all inhabitants of Split-Dalmatia County who are gravitating the second largest city in Croatia. The trail will significantly improve the flow of people, goods and services, being an additional block of development of Split and Split-Dalmatia County. I therefore support and welcome the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the EIB for a project of the Split bypass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53989	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53990	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. Today we have discussed European integration and discussed a proposal for a communication strategy for informing the Croatian public about the European Union and preparations for membership in the European Union. I think that this bill that is before us is somehow the best promotion of this government's policy, and I would say to the Parliament when it comes to bringing the European Union closer. The proposal for this law also shows all the advantages Croatia will have, when I speak Croatia, then I think of Croatia as a whole, regardless of the steps of some colleagues who have tried to give a regional approach to the debate under the proposal of this law, and I am sure that the Croatian public not only of the citizens of Split and other cities to whom it relates will welcome the proposal of the said law. Namely, when it comes to the bypass of Split, if it is, I think it is just a name, and it is essentially 5 cities and 2 municipalities. Trogir, Kaštela, Solin, Split and Omis, and the municipalities of Postrana and the municipalities of Dugi Rat. Total number, correcting and a little of my colleague Peronjo, our former mayor. It's not about 230 thousand people, it's about 295 thousand people according to the last census. You must know that on this move, the average annual daily traffic of vehicles is somewhere around 26.7 thousand, and that in the summer it is 45 kilometers long, if we take two final points, Trogir in the west and Omis in the east, travels over 2 hours. Therefore, this is, I would say, a national priority, not just us who live in either Split or in the immediate vicinity of Split. On the other hand, I would like to stress that on this detour, the future detour is also the state road D1 that goes from the direction of Sinj towards Split. Therefore, it is also an area of cca 67,000 inhabitants and when it comes to this traffic it also has one strategic significance for the Dalmatian Zagora and the overall economic and traffic development of this area in any case. This is the most important infrastructure procedure in the area, I would say, Dalmatia that will happen safely over many years. Of course, not counting highways and procedures going that way. The importance of this road is on the one hand, which will open new perspectives when it comes to the flow of goods, services and even in economic development, and on the other hand it is an issue of islands and communication. So, indirectly, this problem is also involved, and I hope that those crowds that have been present in the summer months will not happen in the future. It's not correct, I mean, from other colleagues to use the opportunity to possibly say that this is a project that's because the Prime Minister comes from a certain city. In any case, I think we should think integrally, yes, and I hope that all MPs, no matter what area they come from, will raise their hands for the bill. And I'm sure that the procedure ahead of us will solve the problems that have accumulated, since this road that needs to be reconstructed, it's a state road D8, so-called. The Adriatic highway, built in the '60s, that it played its part. And this is kind of a new step in the 21st century when it comes to transport, transport integration throughout Croatia. I support both the Ministry and the Government in efforts to integrate, transport integration of the Republic of Croatia. And in that direction, all my congratulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53991	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative Branimir Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53992	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Bitunjac said some colleagues tried to give regional access to the debate on this law. That's just not true, sir. Enough hiding from the national interests, under... /The speaker turned off, then subsequently turned on./, stop shutting me down. I guess you learned that from these 15 years or you're interns in this party, so you don't even know how to behave in the Parliament. There's no more hiding behind national interests, but only when it's working, building and investing in its own backyard. Therefore, you are nothing bigger Croats and do not take greater care of the national interests of me, than I do if I take care of Slavonia and Baranja getting what belongs to her. The national interest is to build the Danube-Sava channel, the national interest is to build corridor 5C, so there are no corridors or the Danube-Sava channel.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53993	Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53994	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I really support this law, and I will support it, and I will vote for it. And I am glad that cheap funds have been found to build and solve one of the perhaps with Zagreb alone the biggest traffic problem in the Republic of Croatia, as far as local communities are concerned. And it's good to deal with it systematically, as part of a bigger project. So it's not a partial solution, it's a solution in a piece, not as some other way around. Unfortunately, I cannot even complain in a way that colleagues and colleagues have done that said something would not be finished. Or that something won't spread. Because I come from Koprivnica and Križevci County, in which unfortunately in these four years, therefore, our mandate neither in the plan, in a document called the Plan for the maintenance and construction of public roads in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, will not be for two shovels of asphalt, you know? We're just traffic-insulated. It started with the highway, the highway was built from Goric to Split. I don't know why some say it's the Zagreb – Split highway. It is the highway Gorica – Split because Croatia does not end in Zagreb. The connected road of Sveta Helena – Vrbovac is made. The Vrbovac City bypass was to be completed in 2004 and it was to be completed in 2005. Unfortunately, it started in 2005, it will be almost 2006 or 2007 because there is little money in the road construction and maintenance plan. 300 million kunas are foreseen, and 350 million kunas are needed for this road without any more money for some unresolved property relations. And that's where the story stops, and life goes on. Life goes on and on towards the Krisevci, the Koprivnica... Life goes on and on to Bjelovar. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's no money for those two directions until 2009. What the government has made is a mistake even if, in its plan to maintain and build the road, the town-Criževci-Koprivnica-Gora has been thrown out. There's not even that direction in the maintenance and construction plan anymore. So, in some perspective behind 2009, not to build. The town of Koprivnica doesn't have a bypass. All transit, and that's the transit of the Podravi highway passing almost through the city center. I am pleased that Virovitica will get 2 bypasses, but anything that bypasses Slatin and Virovitica and Osijek, and it goes towards Varazdin, Graz, Austria, will pass through the centre of Koprivnica. And by 2009 there is no need for increased maintenance of these roads to address the problem. Even the "detoment" program has bypassed the Koprivnica. Even that. So we thought O.K., there is no road it may be for the railway, but the most profitable section of the Croatian railway line is corridor 5-b Botovo-Zagreb. For 2006, there is neither for colossals, nor for remonting, nor for the second track to be built last year, nor for the regular maintenance of the railway. There is neither for the regular maintenance of the railway from Koprivnica via Virovitica, Nasice and Osijek, which carried out the burden of war and then we read that here is something to do on that track from 2008 to 2009. Well, of course, after the parliamentary elections. We'll do anything after the next parliamentary elections. The easiest thing to do is to promise something in the term of another government and I really think it is necessary to build a Split bypass, to build a Pelješac-land bridge, that it is necessary to remount the Lika railways, that the Lika railways should be electrified, but the train on Lika railways should come from somewhere, and they should come by corridor 5-b. Today you drive from Zagreb to Križevci 160 and then suddenly in Križevci you have to brake because the railroad was stopped last year at the entrance to the railway station Križevci and there is no money allegedly, allegedly there is no money to make a remont track in Križevci or to complete a remont track from Križevci to Botova where then trains must drive on certain shares and 40. And then what you managed to get to the Crosses you lost from the Crosses to the Botov. Therefore, it is obvious that there is money in the state budget, it is obvious that there is money in the Croatian Roads budget because the town of Koprivnica and the city where the most motor vehicles per capita in Croatia are registered, the registration is full of budgets and we have a good standard. From the price of gasoline that obviously these cars and trucks are spent on budgets, budgets and Croatian roads and the state budget, and now we are surprised that at least some of that money cannot be returned to the area of Koprivnica-križevci County to solve some problems. Not to build a highway full of profiles, we don't even dream of a highway full of profiles. We dream of denivelling railway crossings because people die at those spring crossings. The railway crossing in Križevci passes practically the main city road and cannot possibly be reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53995	Mršić, a colleague, is the theme of the Proposal for a Law on confirmation of a guarantee contract between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for a Croatian Road Project and the Split bypass. You've expanded the subject from rail traffic to anything possible. It's not the subject, please limit yourself to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53996	Yeah, first of all, Mr. President, this is an emergency procedure, so first and second reading is united, which means we can talk about road construction among other things, that's one thing. Secondly, my predecessors also talked about a broader aspect of the equal regional traffic development of the Republic of Croatia, and then let me finish my debate in this context and in these rules.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53997	You'll have rules like everyone else to discuss. I'm warning you, talk about the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53998	But, Mr. President, if my predecessors could have talked about corridor five, the Istrian Ipsilon and the Rijeka bypass, then allow me to speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u53999	It's about roads, not railway tracks.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54000	To be.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54001	The road crossings, not the railroad tracks.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54002	So they can be built.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54003	I won't comment again. I warn you, stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54004	In order to build a Split bypass, it is very likely that it will have to reach certain... railway lines in the direction between Sibenik and Split. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, and... railway crossings is a topic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54005	Last warning, I'll warn you, and I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54006	And I don't know why you gave the president a warning. I think you're gonna get out of this loan.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54007	We're not gonna discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54008	I'm not discussing it with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54009	I am obliged to you and tell you to stick to the subject and that it is outside the Rules of Procedure of the subject. If you do not wish to do so, you may request an explanation, if you do not agree with this, with my holding session and with this chairmanship, you may request that the Committee on the Constitution choose to discuss whether you are sticking to the subject and whether you are sticking to the Rules of Procedure. Don't, ladies and gentlemen, I won't tolerate it and I won't be allowed to tolerate the ridicule of both the Rules of Procedure and the MPs. It's just everybody's gonna talk about everything, it's not gonna be a Hide Park, it can't be a Hide Park. Once again, Mr. Grouchy, please be sure to stick to the subject with a warning that I will take your word for it if you break the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54010	I would ask you nicely to make up for the time you've taken away from me.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54011	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54012	So when we talk about the construction of a one-city bypass, and here we are talking about the construction of the Split bypass, the second largest city, then we must be absolutely certain that in this context we must look at the even traffic development of the Republic of Croatia and the problems of some other cities, the construction of other bypasses around other cities.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54013	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Luka Bebić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54014	Just... By reference to Article 210 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European [[The speaker away from the microphone, not understood.]] This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the The Rules of Procedure may speak only of the subject under the established agenda. If the speaker moves away from the agenda theme, the chairman will warn him to stick to the agenda, etc. It was mentioned here in the context of the bypass of Koprivnica, Baranja, c-5, Pelješac bridge, Istrian ipslon, railway lines, Dupolje, Ploče, Ploče-Dubrovnik etc., by this logic I know that the points of the agenda cannot be discussed most closely, can not be kept strictly narrow, but as we have expanded this whole plan of development of Croatian infrastructure is not only road infrastructure but also these.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54015	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54016	Mr. President, I'm correcting Mr. Mršić's incorrect quote where he claimed all traffic is going through the centre of Koprivnica, which is actually incorrect. All those of us who know Koprivnica and who know where the cargo is going like other traffic that doesn't go into town goes around town and comes out of it. Namely, it should be said that the commitment to the Koprivnica bypass should be moved to a push for the construction of a fast sub-level road of Varazdin-Ilock and build a future in it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54017	Second correction by the respected representative Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54018	I thank you, Mr. President. I am also correcting Mr Mršić's incorrect allegations about the Zagreb-Bjelovar road, or Zagreb-Koprivnica, that the bypass around Vrbovac was to be started in 2004 and that this happened in 2005. That's not true. It was due to be launched in 2002, but the government led by its party has stopped the works on the project and they are back in 2005. So it wasn't this government that was late, but it corrected the error of the former government that pushed the project aside.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54019	Comrade Mršić, you made one claim. Representative Jandrokovic is incorrectly contesting the claim. Now you're raising a plate for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54020	A colleague, Jandrokovic, corrected my exact claim with an incorrect quote because he did.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54021	I give you a warning because it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. You cannot correct in your opinion an incorrect claim by correcting an incorrect claim in your opinion. It's a correction to the correction. I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54022	But, Mr. President, my claim was a complete point.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54023	You can't argue. You don't have a word. The second correction to the incorrect quote is the esteemed representative Josip Bitunjac. You don't have a word. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Please stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54024	There are different rules here for the left and for the right.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54025	Please stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54026	So I'm gonna stop... [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54027	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm correcting two incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative Mršić. The first is when it talks about the number of registered vehicles in the area of Koprivnica-križevci County that even part of the money does not return to that county. That's not true. We remember that a year or a little more than a year ago from the Energy Efficiency and Environmental Protection Fund precisely from these funds is returned most of the funds if we take the number of residents in the Koprivnica-Kristva County for the disposal of waste dumps. And secondly, it's not about the bypass of Split, but I'll repeat this is just a name. It's about a detour of five cities.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54028	Thank you very much. You understand? Please, well the elemental thing is if any representative or representative corrects an incorrect claim it's his belief that it's an incorrect claim. And he's bringing it up. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This would then be a debate on whether incorrect claims will be corrected or not. Therefore, no incorrect claim is provided. It's over. This concludes whether the claim is incorrect or correct, it is a matter of public judgment. But there's no more controversy or replication on the claim that you're holding incorrect. Dear Representative Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54029	Thank you, Mr. President. I haven't even applied for corrections because I applied for a hearing, so I'm gonna look back at some things. In my debate, of course, I have the right to do so. That's what I'm going to say for the public because we all get materials here, and here we read that this is the 11th loan from the European Investment Bank, of which eight is guaranteed by the Republic of Croatia. So it's not the first, it's not the only one and it's not exclusive for Split, the 11th loan. Here is the first project to rebuild the infrastructure and modernise the signalling and telecommunications systems in parts 5C, and then rebuild the municipal infrastructure on special state care. Not to read all eleven, and here is the project of highway Rijeka-Zagreb HBOR, air navigation Zagreb, car-road recovery, gas pipeline construction. The 10th, so 10th highway completion project on corridor 10th in the Republic of Croatia. Share of the highway Županja-Lipovac 45m euros 30 September 2005 So it's not exclusive or special. I know that regardless of the debate, we're all glad to have this built, but I understand it's certain, it needs a little politicizing, it needs a little prime minister because it's down there, etc. I understand that and I'm sure everyone will vote for this because there's no reason not to. This is a good project. 60 million euros per 25 years with five years of beginning and what is important is credit given to the Republic of Croatia under the same conditions as being a member of the European Union. It's certainly political recognition. And a few times it's been said here. This bypass is called the Split bypass, but perhaps if it weren't for tourism, it might not be necessary. So this is for all of us, for all those who come to the sea from both Croatia and outside Croatia should be completed by 2009 and we know that the highway will increase this traffic. It's an expensive project, although it's only 31.3 kilometers but it's extremely important for life and not to get over the summer to choke. Why is this one of the state's priorities and perhaps the most important? Because tourism is one of the branches that gives more than it takes. I repeat, tourism gives much more than it takes and therefore it is worth investing in tourism because of tourism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54030	At 16,47, it was time to apply for a ten-minute debate on this agenda point. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54031	I'm not gonna be mean.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54032	You won't be naughty?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54033	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, the party's wired. Okay. I support the adoption of this Treaty Confirmation Act, which would therefore be built by the Split bypass. I can say that I regularly went to Omis for a year, two at a time I didn't, and after that, when I was past, I wouldn't believe it. It's really true what a HDZ colleague says there from Trogir to Omis almost all the way up the road. It's gone, it's been built, it's been upgraded so you don't know where it starts, where it ends? And there just along the coast close to the beach, the house passes and trucks in one direction and the other, cars pass, pedestrians pass, tourists pass with airbags. All equal and same speed. And it's really... No, that's true. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And it's one real disaster and I do if truly respecting and this all that he said and what was suddenly a interrupted colleague... , and he had the right to discuss other needs, perhaps with others also such pitoretic situations in Croatia that are surely abundant, and also what was said by his colleague Glavas, they have a colleague from Istria, they have the right to speak about this, and when they say this, about this bill and when they support this one. [[/The speaker doesn't understand because of the bell.]] For what? Because it simply allows our Rules of Procedure. And Mr. President, I sometimes wonder why you're restricting your authority and jurisdiction just over that part. Expand it to both of us and with equal... Be our president, too. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54034	There you are. You said you wouldn't be. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54035	Maybe I can't make it out of my nature.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54036	You didn't get the impression that I was discriminating you, did you?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54037	No, no. You do not discriminate, but sometimes you discriminate against the Rules of Procedure that apply to us. Well, then you won't allow that application to be applied to us. Well, we can, too, so that we can make up one distance from the person, so let's just get to the point and stick to the Rules of Procedure. But here's what I'm holding on to, so I'm going to answer you further in relation to this goal that this bill wants to achieve.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54038	We should stick to the Rules of Procedure, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54039	I mean, maybe we're all happy together that this situation from Trogir to Omis will finally be resolved. However, there are only 31.3km (31.3km) and there is a Croatian highway, the government predicts that this would be over for 2009. So one snail step, even though knowing the situation through which this new road would be built, is really very difficult. But please in three years 31.3. What Hansel Racan and his government needed for 300 km. But good. Let's be modest here, too. But as we can see, look at the little contract, not just the bill, because by law we're going to legalize this contract that says that you see payment is half-yearly. So there's no waiting. The European Investment Bank, for five years? Where does it say?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54040	Oh, don't pollemize here with your colleagues like this behind it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54041	I do, so let's be parliamentary, me, okay. I allow myself to be suggested. I'm not that kind of person that I'm drawing up what I'm saying...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54042	Don't be susceptible to suggestions.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54043	...but I can change my mind. Even though I usually make mistakes then, right? So you need to take care of that, actually maybe ask the proposer if certain preparatory actions have been carried out? It's true. Some cannot be made before certain funds or all resources are guaranteed and guaranteed and the source is secured. But this is certainly the time to make sure that the funds are provided not only, so that the preparatory work that will allow the tranches to withdraw regularly is done, that this interest which is enormous especially on the funds that are not withdrawn and is paid to the entire principal. So it's the most expensive loan, even though it looks like it's really kind of painless with these minor interest rates. Also in terms of building, knowing the terrain where this road will pass, the question is raised here, of course, to the proposer whether the funds are provided and whether the funds provided are from this loan or the ex post funds for the exemption? That's one serious question, because that's what's bothering us, and you know us, Zadrane. So the question arises because, even though it is said in the State budget, it is also one of the very important priorities, it was also promised, were the funds secured in the State budget? We haven't seen that item anywhere. The government has been persistent and government representatives say that these are insured funds although they are nowhere to be seen. Therefore, it was found that the work stopped and the voice was voiced that there was no provision for the expropriation or that they were so minor that the owners did not allow it because the market price or the market fee for their properties was not secured. So this also raises the question here because it needs to be resolved on time given the seriousness. It's not even a problem at all, it's, you've already seen it compared to the former government that was used and that finally opened roads and open doors so that various international loans could be used, so that both the World Banks and European banks and these banks, but if all segments and assumptions of the project are seriously worked out. And I believe it's already secured. We don't know that, but here's what we trust the proposer. Perhaps more than our thoughts stand for our desire to see that stock come true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54044	Thank you very much. Here you are, my colleagues, how you've perfectly held the subject. And... You were announced in advance that you might not, that you might be naughty and you weren't, but you were holding on to the perfect, perfect subject. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Dear Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54045	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's what I'm going to try not to be mean because when I was a kid and then they told me I was a bad kid, but here I'm going to try to stick to the subject, but the way I think it's according to the Rules of Procedure, not the way someone else who has both the modality and the way to try to dictate someone else's opinions at the moment. So I will stick to my opinion so I will talk about this topic in the way I think it is according to the Rules of Procedure and that it is worthy of this Croatian Parliament. When we talk about borrowing and lending, then I think we should and already about priorities in the Republic of Croatia, so I absolutely disagree with the opinion of those who think that there is only one priority to be kept than I think, regardless of what I personally support this law, and I am very supportive of it because I think that on this road which we have all been through and we have been experiencing these crowds, and that we really need to invest, and that we really need to invest in exactly and in this bypass around Split, but I think when we talk about the priorities that we also need to mention what we are coming from other parts of the past and in the present, and that this is a reason for us to support this law together, but that this should be a clear reason to remind also other parts of Croatia that also have priorities that have been planned in both the past and the future. So allow me, Mr. President, to support this law, by supporting this borrowing of the Republic of Croatia on roads that are needed by both Dalmatia and Split, let me remind myself and ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia and this one, and also one that will establish the executive power, that is to say, to be the Government after the next parliamentary elections to take care of the priorities of Slavonia and Baranja. So that all together, and above all, the Government and those who exercise the most responsible duties are also considering the needs of Slavonia and Baranja, to try to carry out pre-election promises at the end, so that the same credit under equally favourable conditions will try to ensure that both irrigation and gasification are approached in Slavonia and Baranja, and that in time, the 5C corridor and so long the Danube-Drava-Sava channel, which has been announced these days, and not that we actually experience in meetings to convince us that within the 5C corridor, we can expect an overpass in Osijek. Therefore, I am for a bypass around Split, but I am not to bypass Slavonia and Baranja. And let me just...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54046	Comrade Cain, what are you laughing at? ... I know, but that's the kind of gross and laughing poster... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, it's a very serious thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54047	Well, I think it's a serious thing that we've remembered, and I've been thinking about it that way and I'm convinced right now and right now that really Croatia is strong not as strong as Zagreb, but as strong as the edge parts of Croatia. And I, Mr. President and distinguished colleagues and colleagues, assure you not only Slavonia and Baranja that she is not nearly strong, I mean economically, of course, not nearly as strong as Zagreb is. And I disagree with the finding and attempt by some colleagues to discuss where I participated earlier, trying to give this topic some kind of regional approach. No regional approach in the debate is if we warn of the fact that we are thinking about how to provide both credit lines and financial resources to meet those promises, or those needs that Slavonia and Baranja today have. Gasification, irrigation, agricultural development, economic growth, so if you want a banal thing, Slavonia and Baranja is still not only Slavonia and Baranja I'm sure, but Slavonia and Baranja is still below mines. So you can't develop agriculture or think about irrigation until we mined Slavonia and Baranja. And it only forecasts for Osijek to be demined if it goes at this pace and this dynamic, it'll take us the next 55 years. So we take care of regional approach in terms of purely economic and even development. So today, when we support either tomorrow and raise our hand, of course, and the bypass around Split, we begin to think tomorrow about how to realise and secure financial resources for all those who are many of us sitting here today in the assembly, and who have this opportunity because they exercise power, fill the already known saying – Croatia is not as strong as Zagreb, but Croatia is as strong as its border areas are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54048	Honorable representative Branimir Glavas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54049	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, I'll be brief. I will try to stick to the Rules of Procedure, which the Rules of Procedure allow. So stick to the subject and pull the comparative on the subject. Once again, I would like to emphasise, as I said in the name of Cuba, that the club of Independent Representatives supports this project, that it will raise its hand and vote in favour of this law. So immediately in advance, I would like to eliminate and deny all those who, through printed media tomorrow, will attempt to place three parliamentary representatives from Slavonia against the state investing 203m euros in the Split bypass. It's just not true. We look forward to and look forward to every investment in the Republic of Croatia, even ten years ago when Rijeka accepted truly the outlines of the modern European city. Back then, we came from Slavonia to Rijeka, usually happening at football games. I can tell you that I am impressed by the entrance to Rijeka when I pulled the parallel and compromised where we live, in what darkness, in the twilight zone we have lived since the war of 1991. I wasn't jealous of the river either. I am pleased, therefore, and Rijeka as a big and strong Croatian town, cultural center, economic centre to advance and grow. Also, I am glad that Split solves his problems. The fact is, it is true that the geographically located City of Split has limited opportunities and the expansion and construction of quality infrastructure. And that building this road infrastructure in that area and in that part of our country is really much, much more expensive than in Slavonia. So where is a kilometer of highway or a kilometer of bypass much, much cheaper than in these areas of Dalmatia because of the structure of the soil, because of the structure of the land. And that's why there's no question of whether or not we agree on it. We agree, but here, we use this opportunity when we talk about road infrastructure, this time about the Split bypass, to stress that we have our own needs. That we have our own desires, that we have our priorities and that we rightly expect this equal relationship between the Croatian government, whether it be Matešina, Racanova, Sanader or tomorrow, I don't know, Cacic or anyone's government. So we want equal relations, equal status in this difficult economic situation in which Croatia is objectively located. 203m euros are huge money and 200m euros could also be made in the area of Slavonia and Baranja. Mr. Šišljagic mentioned demining. Perhaps it is also one of the problems and reasons why all of this is late in Slavonia too. And here's what I'm going to take advantage of, hoping that the President of Parliament won't take my word or warn me not to stick to the subject and say that there's no problem demining a Slavonian-Baranja man. We did not wage our private war at the eastern borders of Croatia. And therefore we do not accept the fact that, from the modest, impoverished urban and county budgets, we need to allocate significant financial resources to demining a kilometer or two lines of battlefields around Osijek. We rightly ask that the Croatian government provide sufficient funding just as it has provided credit lines for the Split bypass. To secure financial resources from European funds and European financial institutions and to elect eastern Croatia in the shortest possible time. It is not our obligation to separate taxpayers' money from city, municipal and county budgets and demining those premises because we did not set our private minefields around the City of Osijek and on the eastern borders of Croatia. And therefore, we rightly expect Croatia's demining price to be paid by every taxpayer in the Republic of Croatia, to be paid and financed from the state budget. These are the things where we're not equal. These are things that are not solved with equal attention. These are the reasons why we raise our voice and express disagreement. And we also don't allow individual MPs to try to label us with some kind of regional labels in a negative sense, that we are looking at problems closely, regionally. No, gentlemen. We have proven, we Slavons and Barans that we are state-of-the-art Croats, that we were able to participate...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54050	This is already off topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54051	Okay, I'll allow it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54052	This is out of the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54053	I'll allow it. If we had been able to participate in the construction of the Croatian state and to appreciate the construction and construction of the Split bypass. I'm back on the subject now. Therefore, Mr. President, fellow Members and colleagues, we expect the Croatian State to ensure and obtain its own legitimacy from this Croatian Credit Liaison Assembly for the Split bypass to ensure both the necessary and necessary financial resources for similar economic projects in eastern Croatia, i.e. in the area of Slavonia and Baranja. We will raise our hand for this law because we don't care if the City of Split has solved its traffic problems or not solved them. So, we also want to raise these 3 hands from this club to make a modest contribution to the City of Split by opening and closing this financial structure to solve this important, key, strategic, traffic and economic problem as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54054	Please. Dear Representative Ivan Drmic. Here you go. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I would say first of all that I certainly support one such proposal to build a Split bypass because I often go to the Split area myself, with pleasure of course. And I know what a traffic collapse is and what a situation there is in the field. We know how burdened this so far-called so-called. The Adriatic highway and that it is simply unconditional especially in the days when the tourist season is and when traffic there is simply stifled. The only thing I have to say is the dissatisfaction I have with this proposal today is that one such project is financed from credit funds, not unfortunately from the budget itself. That is, from those funds that have been paid into the budget of the state of Croatia. Especially since I see "the grace of the period" as colleagues have said for five years. It means that the work that the former government was doing continues. So we're building today, and tomorrow someone else will pay. I think a loan like this could have been raised without "the grace of the period" that this government has paid off such a bypass in this term because I don't think it's such a project for the state of Croatia and so much burden and obligation that it can't find space in this year's budget and in the budget per year. Or that this loan cannot be returned immediately, not waiting for some 5 years to be paid by someone else, or some other government that is at that moment when this "grass period" expires. I also have to show regret that despite the possibility to raise these loans a series of projects in our homeland stands, although the government is saying so politically and publicly, that they are priority, that they will do their best to make them move soon, but we who live in those parts of Croatia where these projects are not beginning we know that it is only one political flossula and that the simple question is whether we will welcome that there is one point on the agenda such as financing the city of Split's bypass. Recently, the 5-c corridor is also planned to work from credit funds, a similar credit as the one that is being raised for the Split bypass, although we know that in 2003 the project was also being asked, although rentability, i.e. the number of vehicles that are expected to drive this route is much higher than there is one highway built on the premises of the Republic of Croatia, except for this parish-Zagreb, which today is most profitable and can also be said to finance the maintenance of other highways that are cared for by the Croatian state, i.e. not given in the concession. In 2003, we came up with information that despite the fact that a road like this is inert, there is no money for it and that it simply cannot enter the project plan for the next 5 years. Afterwards, we asked for a conversation and an intervention meeting of the three representatives from my constituency, from my county, to have a conversation with both the minister and the secretary of state for the roads and that meeting happened and where we were clearly told in the beginning that there was no money for the project. I'm sorry that they didn't anticipate a loan like this before, because it is known that this road is of life interest to residents of the entire Osijek-Baranja County and is simply impossible to develop and the economy, and thus other infrastructures and raising lives of citizens if this transport infrastructure is not built, which is a prerequisite for economic development and development of other life-forms. After a lot of things like this, we managed to insert this 5-c corridor that started here, I hope it won't be built as long as the other projects in Slavonia and Baranja are being built. It would also refer to another project that I hope will soon come up with the same bill on this table, which is also a project of Danube-Sava, which is also vital to Slavonia and Baranja probably much more than what is important to other projects that are now being built in the territory of Croatia. I would especially say one more advantage in order to get this project done as soon as possible, and that is one way to say double construction of the 5-c corridor and the Danube-Sava channel because in a conversation with experts who are working and designing corridor 5-c I found out that there is one big problem, it is the construction of a embankment on the 5-c corridor itself that requires a lot of material, land or someone else to raise that country, or road above the ground. Here's my proposal and a proposal for those people we talked to to work in parallel on the Danube-Sava channel and that the country that's working on the excavations of that channel is simply being transported and used for the spread of the mentioned highways. This would also significantly reduce the costs of construction and corridors of 5-c and the Danube-Sava channel, which is one of the existential projects and one of the programmes and one of the 5 promises for Slavonia, which this government has made in its pre-election campaign and which is the basic prerequisite to launch one irrigation project in Slavonia and Baranja, which has been here for 2 and a half years, and the question is, when will be started? Here I would once again give one of the support I will give and show my vote for this proposal, show my satisfaction with one of these projects of building a Split bypass, regardless of what someone will pay for it in 5 years, I am glad that it will be in office sooner and that a Croatian town will get such a beautiful bypass. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54056	Thank you. Five minutes of club debate. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54057	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. This is certainly a good project, it should be supported, Split needs a bypass. It's a 30-mile radius as we've heard and thus IDS is absolutely 100% for, but we're warning late some other projects, e.g. The bypass around Rijeka is not at all considered a detour around Poreč, Rijeka has certainly more traffic at this time than Split, and this is Rijeka late. Poreč has as much in the season, Poreč itself is 10 to 15% of Croatian tourist income. True, this bypass around Split costs 200m euros, this around Poreč would cost about 20m euros and no one would think about it. I will also mention the prices of tolls on Croatian highways on this occasion. Let's say 380 kilometers from Zagreb to Split 157 kuna, 160 kilometers from Rijeka-Zagreb 56 kuna, and only 5 thousand from 200 metres from the tunnel is 28 kuna, while the Mirna Bridge in the length of a thousand 600 meters from Istria and those who pass it pay 14 kuna. It is a robbery by gentlemen, and it is necessary in a way to put an end to and simply to equate those spaces with the rest of the Republic of Croatia. Now in the winter period, tolls are reduced for Split, and that's okay because at this winter time only the raves are driving along the road, no one else is going through it, but we can't, let's say, treat these stocks in Istria. Most Krk was freed of benefits for the domicile population, and I said bridge via the peaceful citizens of Istria pay 14 kuna and then the question arises why such a relationship with one space. We're in the '80s. years of paying for the tunnel, but since Bujik's arrival, I just don't know the skin. So IDS is absolutely, 100% to get a bypass, I said 100% we support one such programme of the Croatian government, the need for that space where about 300 thousand people live, but I also stress the problem of some other mid-Israec, Rijeka, Mostarina in Istria, the tunnel in Istria. Someone had just said that the prime minister is coming from Split and that he is going to Split for a little more funding, perhaps than other Croatian areas. So I'm reading in "Free Dalmatia" that this exit of Longbaba was also built apparently because the prime minister's parents are from that village. Oh, come on, I don't mind, but Istria won in this year's budget just 28 million kuna. This loan amounts to 60m euros, a total roundabout of 203m euros, which is to the brother about a billion and 500m kunas without counting interest. From the investment bank so far, we have received 593m euros. No road-road project of the 593m euros has been realised in Istria, none. Istria is probably the only Croatian county that does not have a single meter of highway at this time. Of these 593m euros spoken of by this law, 90m euros is being withdrawn from Plinacro. It's this gas pipeline now that's starting to build. It's kind of covered here and Istria. Gas comes to the Istrian mainland but is not talked about gasification of Istria and that de facto it is a priority project for more trailing parts of Croatia than for this space. So that's the conclusion. It can't be logical where the government goes and the money goes and everyone else's nothing. Solidarity is necessary. Perhaps these 200 million kunas should be divided into other Croatian centres. However, there is one better way than to ask the current government for something and then to pray that we get some money. It's decentralisation, it's regionalization. That's what we have to fight for.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54058	It's over. Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54059	It's not bright yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54060	Lights, yes. Okay, you're done. Honourable representative Zvonimir Mršić corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54061	I would have corrected a colleague of Caine who said Istria was probably the only county with no highways. No, and the Koprivnica-Crying County doesn't even have a metre of highways. Koprivnica-križevci County does not have a metre of fast road, there is not a single city bypass. And today, President Shakespeare said that you saw that you were the only one who took my word because I allegedly spoke out of the question even though all my colleagues after me were speaking out of the question. But apparently, road problems in Koprivnica-Krysing County hurt someone.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54062	You're in the railroad all the time, at the railway crossing. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, the Honorable Representative Branimir Glavas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54063	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will only briefly repeat that we support the construction of a Split bypass but also rightly expect and here I am addressing Mr. Levakovic as secretary of state and the representative of the resolution responsible for solving these problems of the citizens throughout Croatia, that I expect that the Croatian government will, as soon as possible, secure the amount of 203m euros needed for the Split bypass, provide an amount of Circa 300-400 million to be swallowed by the Peljega Bridge and, with these 500-600m euros as initial means, go to the construction of the veins of the housewife, the economic veins in Slavonia and Baranja, which is the Danube-Sava channel. Therefore, Slavonia and Baranja are expected to finally announce what has been announced as capital for decades and in the last 15 years the Croatian state has since the elections to the elections announced itself as strategically during the next election period in this election period. You, Mr. Levakovic, remember well when I was still a member of your political option when I received information from well-informed sources that corridor 5C is out of the question, that a delegation of the Osijek-Baranja County headed by Mayor Mr. Bubal and the parliamentary representatives from our county asked for admission to your head, Mr. Kalmeta Minister, where we expressed our protest, disagreeing with the fact that the 5C construction project tried to push itself into the third plan. These aren't speculations, calculations or political statements of mine using this Assembly pay phone. That's a fact, you were present at that meeting. Also, there are no calculations and speculation and politics what I'm saying is that one moment was the plan and the intention of pushing it into another plan and delaying it for a better time. And the Osijek-Baranja County, Mr. Mršić, doesn't have a single meter of highways or any more quality roads. Therefore, we support the construction of a Split bypass, we look forward to it moving and God's conclusion within the planned deadline but we expect and ask the Croatian government for the next six months to report this home that a favourable credit line has been provided for the start of works on the Danube-Sava canal because it is a prerequisite for resolving the problem of agriculture in Slavonia and Baranja, a prerequisite for building a irrigation system in Slavonia and Baranja, which is a prerequisite for resolving agriculture in the Republic of Croatia. I do not dispute tourism but I stress that agriculture is also a highly ranked problem that this Croatian government needs to solve or find at least a way to amortise and mitigate the difficult economic situation in Slavonia, great unemployment and a lot of economic problems not only in Slavonia and the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54064	Club of HSLS, LS, DC-respected representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54065	Dear Mr. President, honourable representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues and colleagues! Let me, indeed, at the end and on behalf of the Club of HSLS, LS and DC, say a few objects about really this, today, proved to be a very interesting topic. And the HSLS Club, LS and DC are also joining and will give their voice to create this bypass, but what we really need to say is that there is not a single city in Croatia that has no problem, infrastructureal, roadside. And we really have to admit that it's not easy to be wise and smart and make priorities. But it is this fact that something is not easy, and it is still showing that it really is asking every government to make as wise a move as possible and to take care of the even development of the Republic of Croatia. The balanced development of the Republic of Croatia is indeed something that we must, which must be, must be in our mind because each actual act of imbalance creates certain political implications, economic implications. I really want to trust this Parliament that there are no MPs who do not behave in the way of an integral Croat. And that means we really respect and support every investment in any part of our country. But it's also a fact that we all come from certain areas, certain areas, that we have some people who vote for us, and these people rightly also demand that we set up certain problems, the needs of our end and try to solve them within a certain reasonable time frame. Indeed, this means that all parts of the Republic of Croatia must be taken into account, because the fact is that, let's say, this road as someone said by Gorčani-Zagreb-Split that it helped to develop a whole series of our cities and that indeed Zadar to that road and Zadar from that road are something else entirely and that, that it has certainly benefited from the once faster economic development of that city. A while back, that's how it happened with River. We also had some problems when we were trying to build a bypass around Osijek. The reconstruction of some state roads so unfortunately we failed, we failed to prove and prove that it was necessary. That's not why we were angry, but indeed that voice must be heard and government each one of its own, every government that really takes care that this is how it behaves, not that any other criteria, criteria of any place of origin or where the minister is from that they, that they determine our priorities on, in any segment, the segment of our society. In that very sense I say we will stand behind this, behind this law. We will give our vote, but we also have to appeal and keep an eye on it because some people vote for us, and these people also expect this calculation, certain international funds, investment funds, banks to distribute some funds to the premises, spaces of other parts of the Republic of Croatia. I really do understand a colleague of Mrsic's. One of the most, in fact the worst roads is just the road Zagreb-Koprivnica and something must be done but I would not want to be the one to make priorities but certainly that is where people who are equally responsible, who are equally well aware. So this very integral Croatianism, that we must not afford this luxury for Croatia to have provinces, is, that is, the old, old thesis of the late government, the government of Gotovina, and we hope that every government and this Parliament will take care of it, and that we will really look at Croatia in the right sense modernising and europeanising the words and also these roads and bypasses around all the cities that deserve it from Istria to eastern Croatia, Slavonia and Baranja. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54066	Please. State Secretary Zdravko Levaković. Here you go. Final review.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54067	Gentlemen and MPs, here's what I'm going to try to finally look back at what was the most talk about in this discussion. I would mention that the Croatian Government adopted a four-year road construction and maintenance plan under the Public Roads Act 2005-2008 at the end of 2004. During this period, 253km of new roads and 957km of reconstruction of existing roads are planned. What does that mean in money? During the period 2001 to 2004, a period of the old plan, i.e. last plan, totaled 28 billion 541 million kuna, in road construction. It means highways, state roads and county and local roads. And construction and maintenance. In the period 2005-2008 total investments are estimated at 32 billion and 390 million kuna, which is 13 and a half percent higher in financial terms. The highways are held at the same level, at the same level of investment while state roads are 55% higher investment and county and local roads 33%. It's numbers. It's evenly invested in all directions. As for the highway after the completion of the section to Split, works are being carried out at the moment. On the 10th corridor of Županja-Lipovac began work on 5. C corridor from Sredenac to Đakov and to Osijek with completion deadline 2008 and within the same time limit preparatory work to continue until the White Manastir, respectively, to the Hungarian border. Work is being done on a full profile of the highway to Rijeka and tonight will be completed with negotiations with the same bank. So we will see each other again in the 210 million-euro Loan Assembly for the completion of the full profile by the end of 2008 with the fact that it is already from a 50 million-euro neutral loan that is now active, the work is currently under way and the negotiations have started with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for EUR 50 million to ensure that the financial resources are completed within the deadline. There is a tender for the stock until after Velika Gorica and works are under way through the concession company towards Macelj. The works from Dupolje towards Ploč are progressing very well and the last tape of the Istrian ipilon towards Pula is under way. The priority of the four-year programme is the means of highways, bypasses of large cities and auto-roads. As regards the concrete allegations from today's debate, the IDS Club referred to the problem of tolls in Istria. The fact is, they don't have a highway, they have half a highway. The plan is to build a full profile. However, tolls are paid for the tunnel and the Mirna Bridge, which is a common practice in Europe for certain facilities to be paid in particular. However, it should be said that there is free transport between all places within Istria. So only when it comes out of the area is the toll, is the toll is paid, and it is reduced by that subsidy given by the state. In the introduction of a seasonal, seasonal toll reduction that has recently been introduced, it is not only on the direction of Split but on all routes under the authority of Croatian highways and highways Rijeka-Zagreb under certain conditions of use of smart card and a certain prepaid payment. As regards the river direction mentioned in the debate, it means other than these total 310m euros needed and foreseen for the full profile to Rijeka last year, the Rupa-Jurdani stock 422m kuna cost Croatian highways, and Croatian roads have invested due to the weight of the stock, a very difficult and demanding stock around Rijeka, I would now not have individual segments, but 311m kuna was invested in 2005 and in this year 223m kuna is foreseen in the four-year period, which will amount to 964m kuna in the river agglomeration. Furthermore, as far as my colleague Mršić is concerned, the contract is total, I couldn't do well, but 350 million kuna is a contract from Vrbovac to Koprivnica for that stock, and the rest is in preparation for the next programme. Representative Anticevic stressed the issue of expropriation. These contracts do not provide for money from credit funds to be granted, but if the 203m-euro programme is up to 2009 this is 60m euros in that component given by the state, there are intended funds for expropriation, and as far as Zadar's road construction dynamics are concerned, it is not only the speed of performance of works but also the financial arrangements. Therefore, due to the regularity of the general government deficit, certain works may be faster or slower on weather conditions, etc. But they're also financial, financial regulation is one of the criteria for labour dynamics. And finally Slavonia. At this point, the works of the Parish-Lipovac are being performed. The total amount of these works is 100m euros, partly financed by EIB and EBRD loans, and the middle-Osjek share, which will be completed by the end of 2007, is worth billions and 400m kuna. The Osijek bypass itself was agreed to cca 300 million kuna and these works take place with the dynamics associated with the country's total deficit. ... I'm sorry, 2008 to Đakov, to Osijek. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] In 2008, I apologize if I said it wrong. However, the president is not involved in the topic, but there has been a lot of talk about the Sava-Dunav channel. What does the Sava-Dunav channel mean in a transport and economic sense? This is the absolute priority of the transport system of the Republic of Croatia because it is the cheapest and shortest road to Central Europe. With the construction of this channel other than the irrigation effect, there is activation of the port of Sisak-Slavonski Brod-Zupanja, meaning all in turn. And otherwise, it may be interesting, the road from Slavonski Brod to Vukovar channel compared to the current one over Belgrade is 416km less. However, as President of the Parliament Mr. Seks announced in his speech from one two to three months ago the construction of that channel and Minister Calmet who repeated it ten days ago, it is seriously working on preparations for its construction, the more the idea just from the Ministry and the Croatian highways began to use the construction of 5C corridors, to dig out of the canal used for the hull of highways by a certain methodology that ensures that this material can be qualityd and installed and that quantity of cca 7 million, total... is 7 million kuna here is slightly less, 7 million cubics, it is cca 12% of the value of the canal investment to the water face and it is precisely compatible with the moment when water can be provided from that irrigation channel. This is an opportunity, meaning digging up channels and building 5C corridors to have Slavonic operatives, a joint Slavonic operative who has no reason not to be the cheapest because of what is in it, which has significant capacities and is located in the area, to team up and go to the competition to get a job. Mr. Seks, a while ago in the organization of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, invited all companies from and other counties to join the business. By the way, Croatian railways agreed 100m euros in work on the reconstruction of 5C corridors, and on Monday in Vinkovci, the signing of the first contract with the European Commission for the use of the ISP pre-accession fund for the reconstruction of the Vinkovci-Tovarnik stock of 75m euros totals 25 million grants from the European Commission. Mr. President, I'd like to finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54068	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54069	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Article 209 is likely to assume what I want to say, which I want to point out. A little while ago, you were not only taking Mr. Lobster's word away from the other MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54070	What is in Article 209? What?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54071	Subtracted, here's what I'm about to tell you. So there's been talk about how you gave the explanation of the subject...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54072	What article 209?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54073	There was talk of something that wasn't the topic of the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54074	My colleague Šišljagić,...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54075	I'm referring to your argument when you took away counsel Mršić's word. The Secretary of State has now spoken again about topics that are not subject to the agenda point and I think it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure according to your interpretation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54076	No, and I don't agree with you that it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Then we have corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Branimir Glavas No, I didn't write you down because you didn't raise your hand [[/Intruder: Did you write me down?]] I beg your pardon for the violation of the Rules of Procedure [[Intruder: It's not true.]] Mr. Caine, you have not written for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and you are written for correcting an incorrect quote, and stick to one order and do not run constantly before the ore. [[I was before Glavas.]] Honorable representative Branimir Glavas, correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54077	Thank you, Mr. President. I've raised the tile five times, and I could've raised it at least ten times. Mr. Levakovic in order to defend what cannot be defended from the statement in a statement is increasingly sinking, sinking and incorrect...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54078	What is an incorrect claim?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54079	It's an incorrect claim. There's a lot of incorrect claims.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54080	Like what?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54081	A lot. That they started working on the corridor. The competition on the corridor hasn't been opened yet, we still don't know the route. It's the fact that Mr. Shakespeare came in, threw a couple of shovels and overpass one set off, but the works didn't start. The competition is not even open. It's an incorrect claim that there is a consortium. There is no consortium of Slavonic companies. It is an incorrect claim that Zagreb-Lipovac is being speeded up. Zagreb-Lipovac has been built for 35 years. Thirty-five years to build that direction, it's not over yet. An incorrect claim is also for the Middle East to be built. It is a false argument for the passway, and for the passway, the west passway of Osijek.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54082	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54083	The works have been late for over a year, and they've only just begun.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54084	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54085	So since they started, they're already a year late.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54086	Go on, go on...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54087	It's an incorrect claim for the Danube-Sawa.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54088	No more, no more.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54089	The Danube-Sava project is 100 years old, not...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54090	No more. And otherwise, Mr. Glavas, go to Djakovština and see where the average was cut, where the track was cut for the corridor, for part of corridor 5C. That's all you need to see. And when you're imputing me here that it's not true and me getting involved, I can't keep my mouth shut not to tell you that. Go home, take a picture of your camera or leave with a helicopter, Mr. Glavas, and look at the path that's been scrapped, measured property-legally cleared for part of the 5C section. ... And what do you have, a breach of the Rules of Procedure again? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You can't fix the correction. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You can't. I explain, I've got the Rules of Procedure, I've got the explanations, and that's why...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54091	Okay. You have injured the Rules of Procedure in Articles 213 and 214. You falsely and falsely report this House to try to deny my allegations. It's just what you said isn't true. There's no general construction documentation for where you put in a couple of concrete shovels.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54092	No few shovels or shovels, Mr. Glavas, were there, but take a camera in your hands or a nice engineer and take the road there and you'll see. Maybe you haven't been able to see it by now. And a second correction to an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54093	As they were throwing millions of euros here just now, hundreds of millions, billions, I can only conclude that Istra unfortunately...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54094	What are you correcting, an incorrect allegation?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54095	But now we're going to correct incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54096	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54097	... It's not a highway, it's not a fast road, it's half a highway, it doesn't have three legs. [[Specially enabled.]] Well, that's not going to be charged anywhere in the world, so somebody tried to contradict us. That there is now a reduced toll in Istria. Well, that's a maximum inaccuracies. Well, look, Ucka tunnel. Five thousand 200 meters we pay 28 kuna How much was it? [[- How long ago was it?]] There was nothing before.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54098	No one questioned you about that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54099	And 100 miles of Rijeka-Zagreb is 56 kuna. Well, that's more than 100 kilometers.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54100	Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. Thank you very much, she's fine! It's all right. We got it. We got it. You're not correcting the allegations. Comrade Mršić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54101	He would like to correct the inaccuracies of the secretary of state who said 350 million are foreseen for Vrbovec-Koprivnica. That's not true. 350 million for Vrbovec-Gradac stock has been foreseen, and the Gradec-Križevci-Koprivnica stock is unfortunately not mentioned in the 2005-2009 road construction and maintenance plan, nor is anything done. And secondly, it's obvious when I'm talking about the railroad that it's a turning point, and when someone from HDZ says that it's part of the topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54102	There was no talking about the railroad except you. ... About the railroad? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Dear Representative Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54103	Can I talk about the canal? The secretary of state incorrectly says it is serious to prepare for its construction, referring to the channel, citing Minister Kalmeta's announcement that the construction of the canal starts soon. I remind you of a statement made by the then Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Reconstruction from 98. Jure Radic, who announced the start of the construction of the canal in the spring of 1999, said 95% of all documents were completed. It is true that the HDZ seems to start digging channels every two years before the parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54104	Is that the same correction now? That HDZ starts every two years with digging?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54105	No, I don't. Two years before the parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54106	And before the parliamentary elections? Well, in '99, there were parliamentary elections, so Jure Radic was no longer in office, was he?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54107	Yes, it is. It's 99th.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54108	He wasn't anymore, was he? Then someone else was the Minister of Reconstruction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54109	99th Minister, HDZ was still in power if you...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54110	After 99, it was 2000. ...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54111	No, since 2000, since 2000.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54112	Then someone else was the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54113	So why didn't you hire him?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54114	And the esteemed representative Vladimir Šišljagic, a correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54115	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I apologize and colleagues for actually continuing this topic of the channel. We're talking,...... Correction, correction because it was said that Mr. Shakespeare had announced the construction of the Danube-Sava channel. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54116	You're correcting me or...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54117	No, I'm looking at Mr. Levakovic. I'm correcting him. So he didn't announce Mr. Shakespeare. I read about this channel in books and that Joseph Broz also announced it. I don't know, but centuries or two have been announced. If you want just before Mr. Seks, the Association of Citizens of the Croatian Democratic Assembly of Slavonia and Baranja announced at his press conference in Slavonski Brod that this project will finally begin to be realized. That's the whole truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54118	Actually, I'm here right now for a bit of a weird position. I was, for example, in Vinkovci I was at a set of economics where I accurately presented all possible references from dynamics, from everything related to the Danube-Sava channel project, from digging up land that would be for corridor 5-c to deadlines, to starting the port in Brshadin. You didn't listen to your pal Pancic, unfortunately, but you were there at the time. It was an accident that you were not present at the time, a colleague of Šišljagic. ... Yeah, it was in the press, she just posted a VTV, and it wasn't Slavonic TV, but it was VTV. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, no, no. [[Intruder: You weren't interesting.]] Yeah, there was some other TV that was more interesting and that she was in love with one man is you. But then we'll conclude a debate on this agenda point. Thank you very much. Final proposal of the Law confirming the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the project “Croatian Roads – Split bypass”. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. With 96 votes in favour and five abstentions, the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54121	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. First of all, the apology of the Vice-President and the Minister that the joint session of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and Hungary is not at this debate. Article 160 of the Treaty on the The law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families has been established that the rights of members of the Croatian Defence Council will be regulated by an interstate agreement, or contract. The proposed law, i.e. the contract which forms an integral part of it, regulates the rights of pension insurance to wounded and detained members of the Croatian Defence Council, which includes the right to pay off part of the disability pension at the level which makes the difference between the amount of the monthly amount of the personal disability achieved under the power of resolution of the competent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the amount of the monthly amount of invalidity pension that the same person would achieve under the legal provisions in the Republic of Croatia. Then, the pension insurance rights to members of the families of the deceased, or the missing members of the Croatian Defence Council, which includes the right to pay off part of the family pension at the level which makes the difference between the amount of the monthly invalidity of the family person achieved under the rightful resolution of the competent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the amount of the monthly family pension that the same person would achieve under the legal rules in the Republic of Croatia and the health insurance rights to be determined by a special implementing regulation. The financial resources for the full implementation of this contract were planned to be implemented in 3 years, in 2006 the families of the deceased defenders, in 2007 a thousand and 100 war invalids who had already passed the disability assessment processes, and in 2008 and by the estimates of 2 and a half thousand wartime persons of the Croatian Defence Council, which would require the provision of 116 million kuna in 2008 and 41 million kuna in 2006, respectively, in this year in the state budget. The application of the contract will affect the quality and proper social security of citizens of the Republic of Croatia who were members of the Croatian Defence Council and members of their families. And finally, just to point out that the draft contract was attended by representatives of the Croatian Defence Council's association and that they are fully in agreement with such a contract signed on 23 December last year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54122	Thank you. Legislative Committee, Immigration Committee. Committee President, Honored Representative Zdenka Babić Petričević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. At the 21st session of January 25th of this year, the Committee for Immigration of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on Cooperation on the Rights of the Victims of War in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which were members of the Croatian Defence Council and members of their families with the Final Proposal for Law, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 19 January of this year. The Committee discussed the proposal for a law confirming this contract as an interested working body. The proposer explained the need to confirm this contract with an assessment of the situation and to identify the issues to be regulated by law in order to achieve the desired objectives and meet the constitutional obligations of the Republic of Croatia towards the families of the dead members of the Croatian Defence Council and the victims and prisoners of the Croatian Defence Council. He presented data on the number of families killed and the number of prisoners and victims of HVO and the assessment of the necessary funds from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006, 2007 and 2008. Since the process of confirming international agreements is where changes or amendments to the text of the international treaty cannot be made at this stage of the procedure and since the Law on the Rights of Lawyers and Members of their Families in the Federation of BiH has been foreseen since 1 January 2006 for wartime persons and members of the HVO significantly reduced the amount of disability and care so far explained the need for this Bill to be discussed and adopted by an urgent procedure. The proposal was drafted by a working group of the family ministry, defenders and intergenerational solidarity and representatives of defence victims' associations from Bosnia and Herzegovina who agreed on the contract. After the debate, the Committee proposed, by a majority of votes, six votes for and one abstention to the Croatian Parliament, to pass the Law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on co-operation in the area of the rights of the victims of war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which were members of the Croatian Defence Council and members of their families.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54124	Thank you. Rapporteur of the War Veterans Committee, President Vlado Jukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54125	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! The Croatian Parliament's War Veterans Committee at its 20th session on 25 January this year discussed the proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on co-operation in the area of the rights of the victims of war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which were members of the Croatian Council of Defence and members of their families, with the final proposal for a law directed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 19 January this year. The Committee held the hearing as the parent body in accordance with the provisions of Article 81. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee has no objection to the adoption of an emergency procedure law. The proposed contract, according to the proposing representative, will increase the social security of citizens of the Republic of Croatia who were members of the Croatian Defence Council and members of their families. The Treaty obliges the Republic of Croatia to pay for the difference between the invalid or family pension achieved under the regulations of the Republic of Croatia and the family invalidity established under the regulations of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the health insurance rights will be laid down by special implementing rules. The realisation of the contract is envisioned in three stages by planning to include 800 families in this year for which 41 million kuna is secured in the budget and a total of three years when the contract will be fully applied to provide 116 million kuna. In a brief discussion, the board members welcomed the proposed way to take care of the victims of the war of members of the Croatian Defence Council. It is expressed concern about the lack of security means knowing that the contract itself does not require implementation through several stages and raises the question of the realization of the requirements of those victims not planned in the first year of implementation of the contract. It also highlights the need for sensitivity of the revision process in order not to repeat the negative experience from our practice. After the discussion, the committee concluded most of the votes: "It is proposed to the Croatian Assembly to adopt the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on cooperation in the area of the rights of the victims of war in Bosnia and Herzegovina who were members of the Croatian Council of Defence and members of their families." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54126	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54127	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The HDZ Representatives Club supports the adoption of the Law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on cooperation in the field of the rights of the victims of war in Bosnia and Herzegovina of members of the Croatian Defence Council and members of their families, which, under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, has been directed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the parliamentary procedure. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provision of Article 139, under which the Croatian Parliament confirms international agreements requiring the adoption or amendment of a law financially binding on the Republic of Croatia and in conjunction with Article 10. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia towards which parts of the Croatian people in other countries are guaranteed in this case in Bosnia and Herzegovina special care and protection of the Republic of Croatia. Also, the basis of this law is Article 160. Law on the rights of Croatian defenders of the Homeland War. So far, regardless of what part of the Croatian Defence Council's victims has been involved, the Republic of Croatia has paid out pensions, not disability or other rights of defence in Croatia. However, this problem has not been resolved systematically or by an international interstate contract so far. This interstate contract, signed on 23.12.2005, will now regulate issues of invalid or family pension and the right to the health insurance of Croatian citizens of the HVO victims as well as members of their families. The issues covered by this law have been regulated by those covered by the scope of the pension insurance rights of wounded and detained members of the HVO as well as the pension insurance rights of members of the families of the deceased and of the missing members of the HVO and of the health insurance rights. This latter will be regulated by a special implementing act. The funds for the implementation of this law in this year are secured in the state budget and for the families of the deceased. In the next two years, it will be necessary to provide additional resources according to the proposed plan and according to the dynamics, an assessment of the victims' disability. The HDZ Club supports the adoption of this law for an emergency procedure because we have signed an interstate contract that is not even possible at this stage, but because of the fact that they are already now and according to the Law on Defence in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the receiving of the HVO victims is more than halved. The effects that will be obtained by this law in the first place except for the more quality and appropriate social care spoken of here by the Secretary of State of the Victims of the Homeland War and their families but this contract is also a support to the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina and an incentive for its stay in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Also, this is an indicator and contribution to improving the relations between the two friendly and neighbouring countries of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia. On behalf of the HDZ Club, we would like to thank the working group of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia and representatives of the defence associations from Bosnia and Herzegovina who have worked on this contract. And also our thanks to the restoring ministry, this is the Secretary of State who coordinated this activity. We also express our satisfaction and gratitude to the Government of the Republic of Croatia who had the strength to bring this small document with all difficulties but a great help to those who gave as much as they could or all of their lives to defend the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina and to contribute to the survival of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54128	Thank you. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54129	The Honorable President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Honorable Representatives! The principles of this law are as follows, I quote them. Thus, the right of pension insurance to the first principle of wounded and imprisoned members of the Croatian Defence Council, which includes the legal payment of part of the disability pension at the level which makes the difference between the amount of the monthly amount of the personal disability achieved after the legal resolution of the competent authority of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the amount of the monthly disability pension that the same person would achieve under the legal regulations in the Republic of Croatia. Second, the pension insurance rights to members of the families of the deceased and missing members of the Croatian Defence Council, which includes the right to pay off part of the family pension at the level which makes the difference between the amount of the monthly family invalidity achieved by the rightful resolution of the competent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the amount of the monthly family pension that the same person would achieve under the legal rules in the Republic of Croatia. So the disabled women from Bosnia and Herzegovina who have been found there are equalized with the disabled in Croatia. So participants of the HVO, their families are equalized with disabled persons in the Republic of Croatia. In 2006 for these purposes, the Republic of Croatia needs to allocate 41 million 174 thousand 400 kuna for 800 families, which in one year amounts to 51 thousand 468 kuna on average for an individual or 4 thousand 289 kuna per month for each individual. In 2007, 64 million 109 thousand 532 kuna or 58 thousand 282 kuna per year per invalid should be provided for HVO. Let's divide it by 12 months or a month 4000 857 kuna and 2008. 116 million 234 832 kuna for 2500 disabled HVOs. This means that according to the disabled 46 thousand 494 kuna we divide by 12 months, 3875 kuna to make that difference now fit, cover these amounts in the Republic of Croatia. It is clear from 2008 until I know what years it will also need to ensure such or greater amounts by calculating harmonisation and so on. As former Minister Pancic told me this morning, he is already receiving about 6,000 people from Bosnia and Herzegovina. The agreement is likely to be concluded by the former HDZ government between or from that form. She paid those amounts for those 6,000 people and the former coalition government. Now this government is expanding those rights. I have no good words for the role of the government in the period 1992 to 1994 in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm the only one from that left sex who voted against the Homeland War Declaration, and because of that part about the role of the Croatian Army in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which may have best described in 1996, 1997, 1998, I don't know exactly Stipe Mesic. This made it clear to me about this legal text and about those opportunities from 1992 to 1994. However, I often say this behind this pay phone that even 12 thousand Istrians receive so-called. Italian pension plus here plus here several thousand from Rijeka because they served that military term in the Italian army, and then they worked in ex Yugoslavia I am to this law proposed by the Ministry of Mrs. Kosor at the very least benevolent. I know that this law of Croatia will cost...... Ben, beno, beno, yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Benovelatan, good. I know that this law will cost Croatia dearly, as expensive as the conflict in Bosnia. Since 2008, I've said at least 116 million kunas a year or in the next I don't know, say 30, 40 years, it's going to be 4.5 maybe more billions not counting those adjustments. Why am I setting myself up like that? Because it's about disabled people first. Who sent them to war? Many have just been killed or most against the BiH army. They were sent by the government. So let Croatia pay for it. Let him pay in some way and tragedy these people like...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54130	My colleague Cain... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54131	It's a spell.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54132	My colleague Cain, we have the Declaration of Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54133	I'm holding on.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54134	The Declaration of the Homeland War, which is the political position of the Parliament. The Croatian Parliament claimed that Croatia did not commit aggression, that it waged a defence war on its territory. Not aggression. And don't fight it back at the little door. No government has committed aggression against Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54135	That's not what I was saying today. I admit if you let me...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54136	That is why I warn you, I warn you not to insult the Croatian government or the Croatian army.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54137	I want to say once again, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament, I have a dilemma about this law. And I think there's gonna be a lot of people running around here, especially at the expense of PTSD. I know that almost everyone who voted is, say, in my election unit for the list that I led against this law, but again, I'm going to say are we being fair about that case I tried to describe to you? I'll say it right now. My grandfathers died one in 1964, the other in 1981, so my parents didn't get that Italian pension like my parents didn't get a social apartment. But I said 18 thousand people from Istria, from Rijeka, their widows today receive those fees. And now how do you put yourself here? I'm not going to talk about who sent whom to war, who listened to whom, who commanded there and so on. However, I would like to say that this right is strained by the rights of citizens of Croatian nationality in Bosnia and Herzegovina. There's something else I wanted to say, but I'm gonna stop. On the other hand, the government may show more hearing to citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina than to its pensioners. The new pensioners here were talking about having a pension of 1200 kuna. Invalids from Bosnia and Herzegovina now, this category 4000 289 to 4000 857 kuna. That's right. That's right because those are the numbers. And I'm afraid that in the end there may not be 2500 but a far greater number of people with disabilities from Bosnia and Herzegovina who will fall under the terms of this contract. I said, I'm saying it for myself. Club members, I will vote for this bill, members of the IDS Club will vote as they will. I have a big moral dilemma. I'm against this contract but because of some roles in Bosnia and Herzegovina, these people's tragedies plus these Istrian stories about Italian pensions and that fate, I said I would vote for this law. The law is certainly flawed and it would have been fine if he'd gone to another reading if we'd gotten a more complete explanation. On the other hand, however, it is signed between representatives of the Croatian government and Bosnia and Herzegovina and it is clear that we can no longer escape from it. I also know, once again I will return to these Italian pensions, that many Istrians are saving those. Without the same many would not be able to pay for a nursing home or a retirement home or pay for medical examinations etc. And just because of that Istrian-Rictory story, I said I'd vote for it, and how my party colleagues will do it, I just don't know it right now. Maybe it'll be against, I don't know. I'd say we pay this delusion from 92 to 94, among other things, by this law. Finally, for the end of this legal, Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on Cooperation, etc. And for the end, maybe the same thing should be solved by the National Liberation War fighters. They should be a priority ahead of the Croatian Defence Council as well, that they should not be a priority, such as the Split bypass priority in front of some others in Croatia. But here we come back to these double criteria and it just hurts a little bit. All in all, I have said with all the moral doubts I will personally vote for this contract, how others in the IDS will commit themselves, but I think this bill is somehow flawed and that we will very quickly face the fact that under the conditions of the same year two, or three will fall not only 2,000 and 500 but perhaps 5,000 people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54138	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54139	Your Honor, Mr. President, I will only, although there are a number of incorrect allegations made by the distinguished Caine, first I will correct the most important, which is who sent them to war the great former government of 92/94. So no one sent them to war, they defended their home, their family because they were attacked. Who would send them to war? They were defending their space, right to life, that's what they were defending. No one sent them to war. Secondly, you forget the situation that there was an agreement between Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, so-called A Sarajevo agreement with the Croatian Army on the release of the whole part, the assistance of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the final operation. And third of all, it's very important. This isn't about unequaling disability. Come on, read it. Those persons with disabilities come true in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and here they make a difference to pension.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54140	Thank you. Second Amendment, Honored Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54141	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Caine, I'd rather you didn't vote for this bill, but if you hadn't, you wouldn't have hit us like that. I'd rather! So there's no PTSD that you could read if you were interested in it, because it's impossible to come with a PTSD nobody, because this is a legal proposal that covers people just died, that are undeniable... He died or wasn't at war. [[You don't understand.]] And the other thing, and the disabled who were killed on the battlefield at the time of the war. Therefore, a decision on whether they are disabled and disabled will be made by the Croatian Commissions for the Assessment of Disability in Croatia, not Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc. etc. And the comparison, this analogy with an Italian army that was a fascist army in another country and pays its soldiers who worked there, so for God's sake, where did we come from? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54142	Third correction, respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54143	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54144	Third correction, distinguished representative Lucia Chikesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54145	Mr. Caine is not as true as you stated that you did not solve even members of the People's Liberation Fight, and you did well solve them, though with good pensions and destroyed my house to build and bring Kadijevic to the sea. That's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54146	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, giving up. Dear Representative Franjo Arabovic, the next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54147	Thank you, Mr. President. Somehow we all always come forward when Caine talks about these difficult, one of these strange topics for him, and for us it's perfectly normal. Mr Cain, this is not the Croatian Army, but we are talking about the Croatian Defence Council. These are the people who lived inside, live in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And just imagine that Istria is located, bordering with BiH, and not if Dubrovnik and Split were nearby, then they would talk differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54148	Next correction, respected representative Kresimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54149	It should be repeated for a few times, unacceptably, to hear inaccurate, unfounded historical facts that someone had been sent to war by some government. It is amazing that Parliamentarians, too, forget many people in Croatia today and do not know the historical facts. In 1991 there was an aggression of the Yugoslav National Army from Bosnia and Herzegovina especially towards the Croatian south, do not forget Ravna, Ston, Dubrovnik and many other places. At that time, not only Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Croatian south, but also the Republic of Croatia, and I will say that later.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54150	And last correction, the respected representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54151	Thank you very much. Mr. MP, you said that this government extended payments to members of the Croatian Council of Defense and that former governments also paid participants of the Croatian Council of Defence. I wouldn't call it that and her exactly. Both this government today and all those former governments have just followed constitutional obligations that all together oblige us to take care of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina and, on the basis of these constitutional obligations, this interstate treaty has come into effect. Agreement. Mr. Caine, in your debate, you listed such situations and events as if you had slept through all those events from 90 to 96, like you fell out of the blue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54152	And Josip Djakić rectifies the incorrect allegations, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54153	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I am correcting the incorrect quote of fellow Caine where he claimed that he was the former government, i.e. The HDZ government in that term of war time was sending someone or in translation to say that she had committed aggression. That's absolutely incorrect. These people mentioned in this legislation and in this contract are members of the Croatian Council of Defence who have citizenship in the Republic of Croatia or who have made themselves available to the Croatian Council of Defence and have been part of that part of the Croatian component in the area of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Why again? Why, in addition to all the declarations, with all the resolutions that were made in the Homeland War on cooperation with Bosnia and Herzegovina in 92 years, why are you re-indulging what was created in the blood and why are you putting again the part of this Croatian state?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54154	I was from April 92nd to August 94th vice-president of the Croatian Government for Internal Policy. Never at any session in any part of the government has a decision been made or discussed that the Croatian government is going to war against another country. State Secretary Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Just a few corrections. Mr. Bagaric has corrected Mr. Caine. This contract does not apply to those who have suffered from a river of war or after the war. He refers to wounded and imprisoned. Secondly, this contract applies not to persons of Croatian nationality but to citizens of the Republic of Croatia who were members of the Croatian Defence Council. And thirdly, all those calculations you've been making are completely incorrect. This contract refers to a total of about 4 and a half thousand who will achieve this right in years as I stated in 2006, 2007 and 2008, so that the calculations for each year are not absolutely accurate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54156	Honorable representative Damir Cain, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54157	I want to correct, that literally incorrect quote because I used the data from this explanation. And maybe if I quote an explanation, then I'll simply correct that assumption. It is either an incorrect argument or a state secretary's statement, but it literally states here that for the implementation of the provisions of the proposed law in relation to the contract, funds were provided in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006 amounting to HRK 41,174 million, for the payment of the difference until the full pension of members of the families of the deceased, i.e. the missing members of the Croatian Defence Council, who have so far failed to exercise the right to a family pension under the regulations of the Republic of Croatia for 800 people or 800 families. Then the state budget for 2007. 64 million kuna for a thousand 100 wartime disabled Croatian Council of Defense. And in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008. 116 million kuna for 2,000 500 wartime disabled Croatian Council of Defense. So I just divided those numbers, divided it by 12 months, and I came up with this data that for 2006 average, let's call it that, the family disability is 4000 289 kuna per month. 2007 4 thousand 857, and 2008. 3 thousand 875 kuna times all year long... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54158	On behalf of the HSP club, respected representative Vlado Jukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54159	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. After the comparison of the Croatian Council of Defence and the occupier Italian Army, fascists from World War II even discuss seriously and without emotion about such a single bill as this one is before us today. And then I'm really wondering myself, and I can't really be that angry at any of the connotations that we're reading through some of the Hague court's accusations. Foreigners may not understand the essence of things, our relationships, but when it happens by our colleagues, our citizens, and mostly parliamentary deputies, then I really have to say that I've lost my word. Compare members of the Croatian Defence Council who defended Croatian space, their families against aggression with those who came as an occupation fascist army. And it's really out of its minds and judgment. I don't know if any other sanctions are necessary, but I don't know what to say as a comment on something like that. But back to this deal, back to the document that's been waiting for years. Waiting in Croatia for 10 years. Let's go back to something that was a great friend of Croatia's towards its citizens, according to its defenders. There have been a lot of discussions on this subject, and I personally came into conflict last year several times with my colleagues and with the executive authorities on this subject because I believe I was right to ask the question when will be the signing of not this kind of agreement but an agreement on this topic. And thank God, we finally got something. I can't say that I am too pleased with this agreement, but it has arrived at the last minute and how much it represents to resolve a large debt to a large and brave population of Croatian citizens who are Croatian citizens, but who live in the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, we all know that a good part of the Croatian Defence Council has already resolved its status as members of the Croatian Army. And unfortunately, there is one minority left, and that is this minority to which this agreement, which has so far been neither in heaven nor on earth. Of course, there are some other elements besides the Croatian state's own goodwill, which is through this agreement and expressed by this government. She's been a little less willing to deal with this problem, and we all have to admit that, no matter how inclined or unrequited they are to this government. However, this government has shown its intention to solve this big, big, first and foremost moral problem. A moral problem because one minority of Croatian soldiers has lost any protection from their Croatian state. The question is, is it enough to solve the wounded and the injured? I personally think, and we in the party, that it isn't. Contrary to colleagues who think and fear great dangers that a large number of patients will appear, and we see that the agreement has not made them sick. However, I believe that it was possible for those who were suffering from diseases that the profession said were the consequences of participating in the defense and we could have put it in agreement, but unfortunately this is a system take it or leave it, so I'm going to comment on the content of the agreement myself. So not only are we to have these wounded but we are to get sick, of course, with one serious approach and revision and everything that goes with the seriousness of implementing one regulation that even through a underlying disease can achieve that right. When we look at this contract in principle and think about what will happen in a few years when it is implemented then we can easily see that these members of the Croatian Defence Council who exercise their rights under this agreement will receive a few dozen percent less than their colleagues who have been lucky in other ways through Croatian regulations. There is also a kind of injustice, but of course it requires certain financial resources. What we can say is that this agreement came quite quietly because obviously it was also a political assessment that I find unnecessary because this agreement was meant to give media and each other to the biggest bell, and it was quite quietly, shyly, and this time when we are discussing this agreement is talking about something. A very shy Croatian government has also signed and come with this agreement before the Parliament, we do not have, we Croatian state to be ashamed of, we should be proud and satisfied that we have done this, that we have assumed on ourselves the obligation to protect the rights of our Croatian citizens who have fought and defended in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We have nothing to be ashamed of and we should have done it on all bells and we still have the opportunity to give it to all the bells and say that we are not ashamed of it and that we are doing what any other civilised state would do regardless of the connotations that may arise from this in some unusual international colossus where, of course, the Republic of Croatia is currently in connection with the situation of relations with the Hague tribunal. As we have already spoken with this speaker several times, a law that interrupts the issues of defenders in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the rights have been recognised only by the end of last year and it is the last hour that this agreement is signed and should, of course, come into force this year. However, what will be the most questionable and what is really fundamental, if this is at all an objection to this agreement by HSP is a concern in its quality of application because we have enough experience and enough law on the rights of Croatian defenders, all those problems from the administration to the trial that we can be very careful when we think about how to apply some new regulation. Something more will be said about this by counterpart Kovacevic, who is more professional about the application and possible problems in the application of this Act because, as we know about the agreement itself, only one part of the law. What I would now like to ask the Secretary of State to explain more specifically to us about the assessment and sources of the necessary funds, which means for an explanation which says that this agreement will be implemented within 3 years, which is of course contrary to the content of the agreement itself, where Article 6(2) speaks of the application immediately. So, the question arises whether it is possible that, apart from these 800 families, some new users will appear this year and how it is possible to interpret that they will not have the right to do so when the agreement takes effect, of course after we ratify it and it does, of course, Bosnia and Herzegovina. Like what? I will give a concrete example, quote a solution, we have them, of course, as you know in Bosnia and Herzegovina, state bodies give solutions to our members of the Croatian Defence Council, and in most of these solutions, they are all in the same way typical. Here he says: "The appointed person has the right to a personal disability in the monthly amount of 204 converting marks," you know the conversion mark is about 4 kuna, "to conclude the agreement on the arrangement of relations between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia on the achievement of the right of the victims of the Homeland War in BiH who were members of the HVO and members of their families, and by 30.12.2005 at the latest from 1.1.2006 in the monthly cash amount of 734 converting marks". So I'm reading the solution, part one. So until 31. 204, since 1.1 this year 704 converting marks of course times 4. Then there's another part of that solution, and we have a lot of these solutions, they're all similar. "The appointed shall also have the right to add to the care and assistance of the second person of the first degree in the monthly amount of 204 converting marks until the conclusion" now not to repeat "and from the application of the contract, i.e. at the latest from 1.1.2006 in the monthly amount of 734 converting marks". What am I saying? I want to say that we already have, if we are interpreting this agreement, we already have examples and solutions that have been made by the competent authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which, according to the text of the agreement, are valid. So the question arises who will pay off this difference if the proposal for funding this year is only 8 hundred families. The question is probably not questionable if more or less accurate knowledge about the families of the deceased, but in these other two items and monetary calculations is interesting and I would like a more concrete answer to a thousand 100 wartime disabled Croatian Defence Council. Based on what data and indicators is our government's assessment that there will be so many, not like a thousand 700 or 850? I'm asking the same question about the 2008 projection of 2,000 500. That is the third group expected in 2008. Of course, personally, since I'm president of the War Veterans Committee I know there's a request at least twice as much, I'm asking if there are any parameters that the government has estimated that it will be exactly 2,000 500? And in the context of this whole story, of course, I warn that there is a need to provide sufficient funding for the next and all other years, and that we do not have the defenders suing us, and we know that we have a lot of judicial judgments and hundreds of millions of debts related to the adoption of previous laws, for their modification, termination, addition, and now there is mostly one major part of the work that the Croatian Defence Ministry is dealing with is the resolution of these litigation disputes and the repayment of debts according to the judgments of Croatian courts, mainly related to the 2001 law. I would like to ask a concrete response from the Government's representative, from the Secretary of State regarding these projections that speak about the application of the agreement and for these other two categories, parameters, means the criteria by which the assessment of so many users will be. Of course, and a concrete answer to why not at least some diseases are put into agreement, regardless of what we can't change now. Of course, in general we will support the agreement, there is no reason not to support it, we express concern when this agreement is applied based on the experiences of the application of our Croatian laws and thank God that the Croatian state has finally fulfilled one great commitment, even in part, even in a reduced amount, it is one big thing, I think it is the biggest thing that happened in the term of this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54160	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, respected representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54161	Mr. President of the Parliament, representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen! We have before us the confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the settlement of the rights of the victims of war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, who were members of the Croatian Defence Council and who were killed in the battlefields in that country. I am talking about the form of a solution to the problem, not content, which was sought by almost all Croatian political parties in this House, and this request is also included in the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences. After several prolongings of the deadlines for his reference to this Assembly, however, we welcomed him or her on this important topic, especially for the victims of the Croatian Defence Council, we can speak openly, and I would also like to talk in a constructive atmosphere. The topic is certainly important for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, since this contract also creates certain financial obligations for the Republic of Croatia. The reasons for this contract which led the former government to open up this problem at least from the point of view of this club and myself personally are that the question of the victims of members of the Croatian Council of Defense, and above all I think of the families of the dead and the most difficult people with disabilities is solved in one legal and just way. Of course, there are issues completely legitimate in Croatian society, which is why we are dealing with problems in the other state of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first place. My answer several years ago and today is that the constitutional provision on care for members of the Croatian people outside Croatia obliges us to help, clearly in accordance with our financial opportunities and above all for humanitarian needs such as the resolution of care for the victims of the Croatian Defence Council. Personally, I wouldn't go back in time and talk about how in one extreme political, financial and otherwise trying to solve this issue. That's a lot of talk. Some types of support for the Croatian Defence Council in the 1990s and today we can read on the pages of the Black Chronicle. Due to such experience, the negative experience from the past is the responsibility of the Government but also the Croatian Parliament today is a team larger. This contract, or its implementation, must be financially acceptable and must be fair. We had a lot of good laws and good contracts, but in application they got into something completely different. This contract is inconclusive in certain matters and therefore requires additional caution and additional assurances from the Government that when we discuss the report, the implementation of this contract in some years or two that we can say that this contract has contributed to solving the problem rather than to its harmonisation. This will be the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as well as of the authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think I can say that I know this problem well, and that's why I point this out. In the pension insurance system of the Republic of Croatia, about 6 000 and 400 persons were reported in 2003, about 2,000 and 100 personal pensioners and about 4 000 and 300 family pensioners. About 440 million kunas were allocated annually for the payment of these pensions. Unfortunately, the latest data was not delivered to us by the government in support of the contract, and it was necessary. The government plans to resolve pension rights for 800 members of the family killed for which it is necessary to separate from the budget of an additional 41 million kuna and in the next few years, the status and assessment of 3,000 and 600 wartime disabled persons would be resolved which would pay the difference between what they receive in Bosnia and Herzegovina through disability and what they should receive in the Republic of Croatia as a pension and for which they should eventually be allocated from the budget again from 2008 according to the government's assessment of a total of 116 million kuna. So, a total of about 550 million kunas, provided there are no additional requirements and conscious violations of the law both in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in the Republic of Croatia. That's what we have, one more time, bad experience. This contract provides for the retirement care of disabled people who have acquired disability through the wound and captivity. Nothing controversial, they'd say. But let's remember, in this House, there was a series of fierce polemics about the status and rights of Croatian wartime disabled people suffering from PTSD and other mental illnesses, arguing that they should achieve full equalisation with the rights of the wounded, which has been done. The result is, among other things, an increase in the number of requests for the status of Croatian military disableds according to some data by about 20,000 people. This principle is being violated here and it is only a matter of time before requirements for inclusion in the contract and those categories of victims in Bosnia and Herzegovina will appear, so this amount of financial separation will not seem final. Of course, there is an answer to this as well as some other open questions but unfortunately the government did not accept them in this contract, which is, of course, her and her right. One of the solutions was that the right to a personal pension, or the difference in income, should be linked to a higher percentage of physical damage when we talk about wartime military invalids, thus respecting the original intention of the then Croatian Defence Minister of the Republic of Croatia and the head of the Croatian Council of Defence to take care of the families of the dead members of the Croatian Defence Council and the most difficult disabled. The contract also provides for the right to health insurance for families of the dead members of the Croatian Council of Defence and wartime military disableds and members of their families. I just remind you that members of the family of Croatian defenders and Croatian military disableds do not have the right to do so. At the same time, the financial expenditure of that item is not shown here. As announced, the championship of the children of the HVO victims was also scheduled for Croatian universities, but it is likely to give up because of the unpleasant experiences that we experienced in this school year at our universities because of the championship of enrollment of Croatian defenders' children, and as we read, the amendments in this section of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences have been announced. The fundamental observation to this contract refers to how it can be read from the contract, and I would like to be denied for the unequal treatment of existing and new beneficiaries of pension rights. Once again, I point out that the contract must be fair. So this contract would have to solve all victims equally, members of the Croatian Defence Council under the government's obligation to strictly implement the provisions of the contract and not to further increase the financial obligations of the budget because we are aware of the huge problems in the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, which is evident in the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers, and even more pronounced when it comes to so-called. the ordinary working pensions of our citizens. And to conclude, in the SDP Club, we would therefore like further clarifications from the Government on these objections, and we consider that the possibility of reaching a consensus will also be needed if the government so wishes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54162	Thank you very much. Now the ladies and gentlemen are closed, the debate is over in the clubs. We're gonna break up in, now session. Resume tomorrow at 9:30. The first respected representative, Josip Djakic, is next. The applications can be submitted clearly, now the application is suspended, until 9 and 45 tomorrow for an individual hearing. After this debate, we are going to propose a law amending and supplementing the Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of local and regional self-government and so on. What? How? And on Friday, we'd vote on these points, on these seven for now, for sure, and whether or not we're going to vote on the eighth. 15 hours. Everything new. ...to continue the session with debate 7. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on cooperation in the area of the rights of the victims of war in Bosnia and Herzegovina which were members of the Croatian Defence Council and members of their families, with the Final Proposal for the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 425 Please, Mr. Cain? Please, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54164	Well, Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of Parliament, every year on this day the world marks the day of the Holocaust. The Holocaust must be the biggest tragedy of the last century, not only six million Jews or more than six million Jews died in the Holocaust, but also dozens of citizens from these areas. So on behalf of all of those... /The speaker turned off, then turned back on./... in Stari Gradišca, Rab, Molat, Nizarni in Trieste, Mat Hauzen, Dahau, Auschwitz etc. I am holding this Parliament to give them at least a minute's honor. Croatia still remembers the horrors of World War II, one Vukovar, Skabrnje and I believe that it must be extremely sensitive to it, and a minute of silence is not only a gesture, it is in some way the court of one body and I hold it so much or I think this Parliament could thus honor these people.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54165	A colleague of Cain, Holocaust, the Croatian Assembly will mark the day of the Holocaust in a dignified and appropriate manner, and you will not try to do so with cheap things, and now you will personally remember the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Parliament has its own preparations, has its own presidency, has its own decisions that will truly mark the Day of Remembrance of the Holocaust. Dear Representative Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54166	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Discussing today on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina in cooperation with the rights of the victims of war in Bosnia and Herzegovina who were members of the Croatian Defence Council and members of their families, we can say that the law is finally coming and this contract is finally coming into the light of the day and we hope that it will be confirmed in this House by the joint decision of all clubs as well as all MPs because it is necessary and necessary. Given the constitutional provision that speaks of Croatia being obliged to help parts of the Croatian people in other countries, guaranteeing their personal care and protection, I think that this contract that is before us is certainly talking about it, although many times in the debates that have lasted over the years and more, in the working group that prepared this contract, there was certainly an interpretation that rights from the rights of defenders from the Homeland War should be leveled. The opportunities are as they are and the difference between the receiving members of the Croatian Defence Council and the families of those killed in the Croatian Defence Council units will be borne by the Republic of Croatia in this contract and as stated in three stages. All those who interpret that they should bear the responsibility of sending these soldiers to war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, who want to confirm the truth that it was an aggressor campaign or what it is already called, in fact still want to blacken and accuse the Croatian state that we cannot give them for the right because there is no justification or truth. This law strictly speaks of Croatian citizens who were members of the Croatian Defence Council, who defended Croatian territory in Bosnia and Herzegovina against the aggressors, and the aggressor in this respect was absolutely known and he was the Yugoslav National Army along with the Chetniks and other paramilitary troops. We are all aware that the co-operation between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia began in 92nd year and that it is readable in the resolution adopted between, i.e. in this Parliament and which speaks of its own and economic and military assistance to these two countries. Also in the further sequence when it comes to members of the Croatian Defence Council, we can really say that they felt the need and put themselves at their disposal at the most critical moments of Croatian history, because today they really deserve, and not only deserve that we have to read it from something else but a real constitutional decree is that we have to care and care for them and those who died in the Croatian Council units as well as the entire people of Croatia living in the areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina as well as all other countries. I can say that these pension insurance rights to wounded and imprisoned members of the Croatian Defence Council have not been regulated so far and there has been no cooperation in this field between the two countries and this is a moment that really regulates those rights that have been achieved in Bosnia and Herzegovina and for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. This income difference is also defined in these articles of the law and I think it will be for everyone's benefit. In particular, they may say that Article 9 of the draft contract provides for the right to health care under the legal provisions and the burden of that Contracting State on whose territory the persons referred to in Article 1(1) of points (7) and (8) of this Treaty are treated. These are all forms of signs of material rights for wounded, imprisoned, missing and fatal and health rights are regulated by this interstate contract. I would also like to stress that this obligation comes from the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence, which was adopted with effect in 1.1.2005 and that the working group was composed of real members of the Croatian Council of Defence who had citizenship in the Republic of Croatia as well as those who were from Bosnia and Herzegovina and that their common position was that such a treaty could see the light of the day and they agreed on its adoption and therefore I do not think that anyone should be pollemised, politicised, but it is actually high time for it to be adopted, and in this respect, the new law on rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina has significantly reduced the rights of that population in Bosnia and Herzegovina since 1 January 2006. Therefore, I think that further discussions and policies on this contract are unnecessary, that everything is defined in both phases and means, and how much will ultimately be the user so that this emergency procedure has its own norm, and the norm is to supply those who certainly have the need and who deserve it as well as the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia as quickly as possible. I therefore welcome the adoption of this law as well as this Treaty and want it to be realised as soon as possible for the benefit of members of the Croatian Defence Council with citizenship in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54167	Thank you. Dear Representative Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54168	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, listening to yesterday's club debate, it can be concluded that the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina will be supported by most of the representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Yesterday, here is my colleague Cain, in his debate, expressed his dilemma about the justification of the proposed contract, and I, unlike my colleagues, do not have the slightest dilemma, and I personally think that the adoption of this law reflects the care of the Republic of Croatia towards the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and especially for the members of the HVO who defended their homes in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Unfortunately, as in the Homeland War in Croatia where many members of the Croatian Army were killed and in Bosnia and Herzegovina, unfortunately, a large number of HVO members lost their lives, and many were wounded. Confirmation of this contract regulates both their rights and in a certain way provides them with the possibility of a normal, non-social life. I would not be obliged, I would like to congratulate the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Labour Group of the Ministry of Defence and everyone who participated and contributed to this contract today coming before the Croatian Parliament and I will be pleased to support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54169	Thank you. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54170	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. Normally, I will also support this contract because we ourselves know the difficult position of the families of the dead, imprisoned or missing members of the Croatian Defence Council, as well as Croatian wartime military disabled members of the Croatian Defence Council. Croatia has a double obligation to them, we know that we have participated together in all actions and releases both for preparation and for "Storm" and we have stuck to the Split Agreement regarding this part of Bosnia and Herzegovina's aiding and release, and also about that part of protection and protected zones such as the Bihaq and others. And so not only is it a moral and human and other nature obligation and it is a legal obligation for the Croatian state to finally resolve the issue. This contract is good that it has come at this time and it certainly needs the urgency of the procedure, but I will have to react means in terms of well-intentioned simulation of the application and implementation of this contract so that no various situations occur that will prevent it, whether it be the families of the dead, the prisoners and the missing. Whether it is the Croatian wartime wartime disabled members of the Croatian Defence Council. Because the content of the contract in some things is flawed, or it could, and we don't want that to happen, it could cause barriers to the application and implementation of that contract. The first thing that is important is to say that according to this contract, the families of a prisoner or missing member of the Croatian Defence Council, according to Article 1(1), paragraph 8. But Article 6 does not regulate the way in which their rights are exercised because of the fact that according to our Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers and members of their families, these families do not exercise the right to retire but are entitled to compensation in the amount and height of family pension. This contract is unfortunately not regulated. The truth of the will is mentioned in Article 1(1) of the 8th Point of the Incarcerated or Missing Family, and Article 6 mentions pension. So there's no mention of compensation because the families of the prisoners and the missing don't get a pension, they get a pension, and then they get a pension only after the exhumation and they exercise the right to retire. That is why we have proposed and submitted the amendment, so the Croatian Party of Rights Club, not to react in the text of the treaty, but to react in the text of the Law, that the powers of the Minister of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity should be regulated by the implementing regulation to regulate the exercise of the rights of the family of a prisoner or missing member of the Croatian Defence Council. This means that it would be implemented all regulated and that there would be no various doubts in the application and implementation of this. In order to avoid that famous insolence of an official who would behave as a drunk ship of the law and this family, in such a situation if he were to hold on to himself as a drunk vessel, or a contract, and not a law, he would be in a situation where he might not get what he has a right to. The second part applies, although it is contained in Article 6, this 30-day period, when Croatian wartime disableds, members of the Croatian Defence Council must apply for the right to distinguish between, means, the amount of pension they would have according to our regulations and this difference to the amount of family, i.e. personal invalidity that they receive under the regulations of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think that deadline is too short. In particular, there may be a problem with the fact that the lack of information, and we know that the contract is in effect, when both sides ratify it, will then be announced from which day it enters into force. And so from that day forward, this 30-day deadline is running. And now you can, therefore, really happen this variant, one who does not submit within the deadline, member of the Croatian Military Disabilities, member of the Croatian Defence Council. If he does not submit within 30 days this part of the right to this difference between, meaning, the amount of the disability pension he would have under Croatia's rules, means under the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families and what he receives as a personal disability under the regulations of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We also believe that it is necessary to break various bureaucratic barriers on our part, meaning, on the Croatian side, to pass the implementing regulation and we also propose it by amendment, to bring the minister as a competent person. Yes, I am correct in regulating the way and course of exercising the right to the contract. So, whether it's the families of the dead, imprisoned, missing members of the Croatian Defence Council, whether it's Croatian, wartime, military disabled. In particular, because Bosnia and Herzegovina has not yet designated its competent bodies so that this variant can happen again, let's say this time not from our side but from both Bosnia and Herzegovina, it holds many of these things in drawers. And that is exactly why it is necessary to regulate how and how. That means next. Whether this part of the family will be requested and should come to the competent ministry, means the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity. Should we determine that they will receive it directly or will determine that it will go through the competent authorities from Bosnia and Herzegovina. And then the ministry checks these facts and directs them to the Croatian Pension Insurance Office. Especially when it comes to Croatian wartime, military people with disabilities, members of the HVO who must then go to the assessment of their ability to work. The first stage of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and the final assessment is given by that commission at the ministry. So that would be the best way for me to break all these bureaucratic barriers. It's the same with families. And now we're going to get to the same legal situation, and that's that variant. We know what the dynamics are, although it's not in the contract by financial means, which is put into the law's reasoning, but legally speaking, the contract doesn't talk about this part in 3 years, first, second, third. That means the next 800 family variant this year. Now that's, is there going to be a variant if there are 900 families, that 100 will be left without that right? According to the amount of money, yes, but the contract doesn't know that question. So, he'll have to be paid, he could go to this part and the errands and everything else, given when he submits the request, he has to get rid of it. The worst situation is with Croatian wartime wartime people, members of the HVO because they are, they are getting solutions from Bosnia and Herzegovina's competent authorities. It means that this part will be obtained from Croatia, and the variant is that it will mean that the part will be achieved within 3 years, so the variant could happen, it will exercise that right, but it will again be at the beginning and could even go to court, that is to say, seek execution and payment. So we should think about this part a little bit, and that's why we as the Croatian party's rights club suggested that the power of the minister should be passed by sublegal regulations so that everything that is possible, I've only tried to emulate a few situations in order to prevent in advance and so that there is no way that any of those who have rights and certainly have the right to be suspended or because they haven't submitted within 30 days, and if they don't know the deadline, people are not all informed when the contract comes into effect, when Bosnia and Herzegovina is going to ratify it, and that deadline runs from that day, and if they don't, it't. Therefore, I think that it is necessary to regulate this means no contract, but it is regulated on our part, so I have put it in law, that the minister adopts appropriate arbitrary regulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54171	Thank you. Honorable representative Lucia Chikesh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54172	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Proposal for a Law confirming the contract between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on co-operation in the field of the rights of the victims of war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which were members of the Croatian Defence Council and members of their families, I support as I support the urgent process of its adoption. But after last night's debate by the representatives of the most numerous clubs in this House, representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, the SDP and the HSP, who themselves were members and participants of the Croatian Army and the Croatian Council of Defense and all supported this International Treaty, more or less one of them said and asked why such a big deal is being solved in such quiet and self-secret way? Therefore, there is not much to be added to their presentations. Dear Secretary of State, your ministry has done as morally this time. You have righted a great injustice, protected the victims of the Croatian Council of Defense and their family. Discussing differently as last night could be heard in this House is at least inappropriate and malicious. Well, I'd just like to mention something. The feeling of shame is unique only to the human race and no other species on this earth, on this planet Earth knows and does not know this feeling. I can't say that feeling is pleasant, but it's our great correction, and thank God for it, and do we deprive ourselves of this feeling I think we've deprived ourselves of a great one of the corrections and the question is, where is man then, where is humanity? I apologize for this little aberration of mine, but I had to send a message to a colleague who insists on each and every one of his shows and wants to call upon the times which thank God far behind us and who has not repeated himself and who insists on dragging the thesis that the Croatian Army is an aggressor army. The Croatian army, wherever it was never aggressive or will be in the future, has only defended itself, defended its own, defended its country. In front of me is the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders and persons with disabilities of the Homeland War and their families as well as information on the status of victims of the Croatian Council of Defence and their families, and if we look at them, we see that the difference is great, that injustice is great at the expense of these last ones. And that is why I once again welcome the adoption of such an International Treaty because it is very transparent, in the only possible way, correct this great injustice by protecting the victims of the Croatian Council of Defense we protect the existence and survival and the Croatian people in these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54173	Dear Representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54174	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to remind you at first that Article 160 is. The law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families established that the rights of members of the Croatian Council of Defence will be regulated by an interstate agreement that should allow for a better quality, better social security of citizens of the Republic of Croatia, emphasising citizens of the Republic of Croatia who were members of the Croatian Council of Defence and members of their families. Those charges should allow for the right to pay off the work of a disability pension, the right to pay off the work, or to participate in pension rights, as well as the exercise of health insurance rights. The adoption of this Act by emergency procedure is also proposed because the Law on the Rights of Defence and Family Rights in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina provides that since 1 January 2006, wartime disabled members of the Croatian Council of Defence are significantly reduced to the current height of the disabled, i.e. care. Of course, when we talk about one of these important laws, then I think we should kind of highlight two important aspects. First maybe the one that's been talked about a lot, but I believe that this law represents a quality legal framework that allows for long-term self-sustaining financing of all these rights that we are talking about. I particularly stress this, in the long term, because of the limited financial resources in the Croatian state budget. When we talk about this Law, then I think it is also particularly important to highlight the justification, the basis on which this Law rests. It seems to me that there's little to know about it, that it's either simplified or forgotten, or by accident, or maybe some time on purpose. The foundations and justification on which this Law rests are related to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, are related to the Declaration of the Homeland War, but most of all to the historical facts and historical truth that we so quickly forget, and for this occasion I want to say more about it. It is forgotten that in the spring of 1991, there was a halt in aggression against the Republic of Croatia, the Yugoslav People's Army in the area of prologue when Croatians stopped their bodies from strong armored JNA forces, which, according to the Kadjevic and Adzic directives, were to enter Croatian premises and provide a basis for further military development. It is forgotten that the aggression against Bosnia and Herzegovina actually had its starting point on the Republic of Croatia in the Yugoslav People's Army. This is forgotten and unfortunately needs some facts to be pointed out. In the former state, although the JNA had no political role to play, it has already granted itself the role of a key political arbiter in the 1980s, which should solve all those political problems and conflicts that could and had to be dealt with by normal common democratic means as any other civilised state. But JNA's war plans, Kadjevic's war plans, Adzic, however, had a second goal. This opportunity should certainly be repeated when they failed to move towards the Croatian south in 1991 to their armored mechanized forces, when the Croatians of Herzegovina, as I told their bodies, stopped the aggression against the Republic of Croatia from Bosnia and Herzegovina, then the situation repeated in 1992 in a very similar way. And those are the facts. If it hadn't been for the Croatian Defence Council in the spring of 1992, it was intended to penetrate the wider area of Dalmatia from the direction of Grahov and Glamoc forces of JNA. In the JNA war plans, it continues to say that the armored-mechanised JNA forces were aimed through the Kuprevo field and the Danube field also to come to the wider area of Dalmatia and to exert appropriate pressure on the military, political and each other towards Split. It happened the same way in the Neretva Valley when they targeted Neum and Ploče and they were facts that were forgotten. And if it hadn't been for the Croatian Defence Council then, had it not been for Croatian volunteers, their determination and courage, I would have been responsible for you as a Croatian defender and soldier, I would have told you then there would have been no Croatian South and if it hadn't been for the Croatian South to be an independent and sovereign Republic of Croatia. If these armored forces had managed to develop all their troops in these areas in 1991 and 1992, aggression against the Republic of Croatia would have led the Croatian political leadership into an almost impossible situation. It is never hard for any military force to solve the military, the political problem facing which the Republic of Croatia can be found. We often said "Without the Croatian Council of Defence, the Croatian South would not survive.". Croatia did not then have the opportunity to establish two or three guard brigades that would stop these aggressive intentions of JNA and these are facts, facts that are being forgotten. At the space of the Lithuanian field on the Rujanići line, Lebici suffered the first defeat in 1992. From the same village of Rujan in 1995, 24.7. operation "Summer 95".", the liberation of the Republic of Croatia began. And that then the Croatian Defence Council did not establish those military positions difficult to happen all that happened later. And it's really strange that our recent history when we talk about such an important law or we don't know or forget, we marginalize and ignore. It is inadmissible and will probably need for future representatives in the Croatian Parliament one day to introduce a entrance exam from our recent history. At that time, no less or less, Blagoja Adžić accused the Republic of Croatia of aggression against Bosnia and Herzegovina, then in 1992, when the Croatian Defence Council troops defended not only Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also the Republic of Croatia. And that is why, ultimately, when we bring this important law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to light some of the provisions of the Declaration of the Homeland War, which this House adopted on 13 October 2000. I quote "It is confirmed that Serbia, Montenegro and JNA have committed armed aggression in the Republic of Croatia." And Article 5: "In line with the fundamental principles of justice and civil solidarity", I stress civil solidarity "The Republic of Croatia will provide, in the context of material opportunities, all Croatian defenders, families of the dead, victims of Homeland Work that are most responsible for its creation of full protection, dignity and care." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54175	Thank you. At 9.45 p.m., it's time to apply for a hearing. Dear representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54176	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I will begin by saying, so I welcome the signing of this Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on cooperation in the area of the rights of the victims of war in Bosnia and Herzegovina who were members of the Croatian Council of Defence and members of their families because I have always discussed the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families mentioned the problem of the victim in the Bosnia and Herzegovina area and that of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the people who live, who have moved to my county. Most of them have not resolved their status or are receiving very small pensions and other rights and disability are almost not realising it. Only in the municipality of Donji Kukuruzari, and also in other parts of Banovina in 1995 and 1996, so those events that were reminded of by a respected colleague, Cosic, were inhabited by about 12,000 people from Bosnia and Herzegovina. Most of them are these categories of victims of war and members of the Croatian Defence Council. About 270 of them have a residence in the municipality, a small municipality of Donji Kukuruzari and want to stay in Croatia in this area, have solved many of their existential problems. Many. The biggest problem was their recognition of the status of Croatian war defender and Croatian wartime wartime invalid. The peace they're getting so far isn't as big as Mr. Cain thought in yesterday's debate. They are up to 250 kuna, the lowest, up to 1300 kuna. That's the real information I got from these people that certainly doesn't satisfy even the basic needs of life. I must point out that this is about multi-member families. That the municipality of Donji Kukuruzar is the largest municipality in our county, thank God, and perhaps in the Republic of Croatia. The application of this Treaty will affect the social security of citizens of the Republic of Croatia who were members of the Croatian Defence Council, members of their families, who made a major contribution to the fight for freedom of their home. The same applies to the health insurance of our citizens who are victims of war in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is important to point out that this contract will establish the right to distinguish between the amount of the monthly disability achieved by the decisions of the competent authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the amount of pensions that would be incurred by persons under the legal regulations of the Republic of Croatia for the wounded defenders, captive members of the Croatian Defence Council, as well as members of the families of the dead and missing. It is very important that Article 9 of this Treaty is also governed by the right to health care, according to specific implementing rules, because this is indeed the most vulnerable group of companies. It could also be said that health, almost health-hazarded and it is therefore important to adopt implementing rules quickly by the competent authorities. The urgency of passing this law is also important. Already, my colleagues said in their previous discussions because the Law on the Rights of Defence and Family Members of their families entered into force in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina since 1 January of this year where the levels of disabled persons will be reduced, so it is important that this contract enters into force as soon as possible to guarantee the rights of the people of our citizens and of Bosnia and Herzegovina and those who live here. And I must say, in the end, by discussing the laws that we now have in the area of defence this contract is just another advance for this ministry and our government to address the protection of all Croatian defenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54177	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. She's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54178	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Croatia should take care of all its citizens wherever they are. It's humane, it's noble, it's selfless. And with this contract and ratification of that contract, that's what it looks like. Does he care a lot or a little bit about money? I don't know that. But I trust my colleague Yukic, who read the solutions here yesterday because the solutions are already written. They were written before this House ratified this contract. And according to these solutions, as counterpart Jukic read yesterday, these people today in Bosnia and Herzegovina are getting 200 converting marks, and now they will get 700. 500 conversion marks are coming from the Croatian account. It's going to mean 700. That's about 2800, 3000 kuna. I don't know if it's much, if it's small. I don't know how expensive life is in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I know, however, how much life costs in Croatia, and I know that in Croatia many would be too happy to get that much. Croatia should take care of all its disabled wherever they are. It is beautiful, noble and selfless that Croatia cares for the wartime disabled of the Croatian Defence Council. But we and Croatia have a disabled man, not a war, but a disabled man's work. Some of them get 300 kuna each. They didn't go to HVO. No, they were disabled, so they couldn't go to war. They're getting 300 kunas today. Croatia should take care of all its defenders wherever they are, as the CROMAC used to end when the defenders were welcomed, and they should not be told where they are. I know. This agreement does not speak of soldiers of the Croatian Army. I know, he's not talking about those who defended Vukovar, fought at the Gospić battlefield. He speaks of those who spent a good part of the war fighting the Bosnia and Herzegovina army with which we had signed an agreement on military co-operation. I know, he's talking about those whose greatest military exploits were Ahmici village, Stupni dol and the destruction of the bridge. This law comes from the Ministry of Defense, but it's the Ministry and intergenerational solidarity. Well, of course, he has some pension rights to worry about. Croatia should clearly take care of those who live from retirement wherever they are. This law provides family pensions for citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Some of them. We also have family pension beneficiaries in Croatia. In the "Current Hour", we heard the prime minister answer the parliamentary question of counterpart Silvana Hrelje said that these family pensioners somehow dropped out at that lunch that discussed pensions. I don't know if they dropped out between soup and main dish or between dessert and coffee, but they fell out at that lunch in a coalition conversation between the Croatian party of pensioners and the Croatian government. Croatia should take care of its citizens wherever they are, even if they are not in Herzegovina, but, for example, in Vojvodina. And that now remembers me when we were making the budget that I gave the amendment that I asked to provide 10 million kuna for those Croats in Vojvodina. As much as Racan's government has provided, my amendment has been denied. They've been told 70,000 kunas are secured and they've had enough. Croatia should take care of its citizens wherever they are, even if they were not in Herzegovina, but in Croatia, even if they were in the country where they lived all their lives, worked their whole lives, paid taxes, made contributions, and today many of them have a pension of 1500 kn. What 2800 kn to be provided under this agreement. For them, it's an unattainable dream. Well, that's their dream I'm giving this speech of mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54179	Representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary of State. We are ahead of us with the proposal for a bill to confirm the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina in cooperation with the rights of the victims of war in Bosnia and Herzegovina who were members of the Defence Council and members of their families. Each law in the Croatian Parliament shall be adopted on the basis of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina shall not be related to the provision of Article 139(1) only, but also in conjunction with Article 10. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which we all know well, and at least as parliamentary representatives should know the most basic articles of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. These constitutional provisions are laid down in the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence and in Article 160. The law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families has been found to regulate the rights of members of the Croatian Defence Council during the state agreement. All those who are responsible, all those who are aware of the responsibilities of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the state of Croatia with their history, the Constitution, moral and in-house obligations, have always been afraid when this agreement will come to the assembly benches and we have it here thank God and experienced it. It is never too late when injustices are corrected and laws determine what has to happen and this has happened, i.e. the application of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, not our obligations to the imprisoned members of the Croatian Council of Defense and members of the families of the dead and the missing members of the Croatian Defence Council, but these are their rights stemming from the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence. However, I am pleased to see that by 2008, or 2006, 2007, all those who finally deserved it will be included in 2008, so I thought I'd start speaking quite differently. However, I will say something although Mr Krešimir Ćosic presented the actual facts and pointed to those and said that it would be good for every representative in the Croatian Parliament to pass a preliminary exam on Croatia's latest history. Mr. Cosic is not here. Ignorance is not a shame, but avoiding your own truth is often a shame. The defamation of your own truth to which each individual, especially a parliamentary representative, should be proud. This often happens in the Croatian Parliament. The history of the Croatian people, the most recent history of the Croatian people from 1990 to the day of today, is belittled. In the association between Croatia's homeland and evicted and all Croats outside the country and those in Bosnia and Herzegovina and those of national minorities from European countries and those of Croats from the north to the south, respectively, from Australia to Canada and Norway, they created and defended the Croatian state. That article of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Article 10, was created from this. “The Christmas Constitution” in 1991. However, when it comes to the rights of those who are most worthy that we are in the Croatian Parliament are often humiliated, and yesterday they happened as they were often heard from individuals in the Croatian Assembly, so they compared themselves with fascists. The Croatian soldier through the history of the Croatian people, even in the Homeland War was never an aggressor, never crossed his borders, never in the history of the Croatian people fought an imperialistic war, but in defending our home, our homes and our hearth. This was what the members of the Croatian Council of Defense did. Defending his home and Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the referendum was the first to protect Bosnia and Herzegovina, the whole state, to come to a referendum and vote and cast a vote for the freedom of its people in the areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the state and the Croatian people. Instead of giving real facts, based on historical facts to the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina from day to day as a Croatian Parliament or individual, or a single representative, we support the survival of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina by reducing each step. But the truth is always on the side of someone who works honestly and who honestly defends his home. Mr. Krešimir Ćosić was normally an expert on what the members of the Croatian Defence Council did, but I remember well too, Mr. Cain, a colleague of Cain, you forgot that the Croatian people in Herzegovina went to the tanks of the Yugoslav People's Army, and there was no war in Bosnia, and on the other side of the village they made cookies because they expected the Chetniks to eat, not only to come to the Republic of Croatia, to the south of the country, but to eat cakes that one place on the other side of the border prepared for them. Chetnik tanks did not reach the south of Croatia, nor did the Chetniks eat cookies, which was done by the Croatian people from Bosnia and Herzegovina, or from Herzegovina. Do not compare what is not comparable, do not embarrass yourself or us with such comparisons because they are not good. Because this isn't about the restaurant, we're still at the Council of the Croatian Parliament. Each of us should bear no fear with us if you say something about being beaten or locked up, but a colleague of Chikesh mentioned a word of shame. Well, the word shame and fear should be a feature of each of us, an individual, but often those words mean nothing to someone. Do not disprove what no one can deny. Do not belittle what my and your children and our great-grandsons must and must be proud of. And in the hope that Croatian history will be recorded from 1990 to today because it is written only in Croatian blood, that Croatian historians will do their part and that our children will not fight after 50 years for the truth about the Homeland War, as you often cheat on Croatian people and Croatian public in this Croatian assembly. You're making our work difficult, if you will, with your outbursts. And I'm finally going to finish my debate. The Partisans have buried the Ustasha, you Partisans put an ad act and let us go with it finally, and I am pleased when this agreement will come into effect and correct the injustice of those who deserve it. This is not a poverty, this is what the Croatian Parliament, that is, the Croatian state must do to its citizens, Mr. Stazić, wherever they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54181	Dear Representative, Vice President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54182	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Although I am going to vote for this Treaty proposal, I must point out, however, that it only partially regulates these relations and that it primarily refers only to persons who were in the HVO as citizens of the Republic of Croatia or is about children of the victims of defenders, or parents, out-of-marriage adopted children, stepdaughters, etc., etc., or members of the immediate family. In such a situation, they wanted us not to, we still bring a legal act which, in a certain sense, does not or does not put them in an equal position. Not only all members of the HVO but also those who are members of the Croatian people in the HVO, this should be publicly said and demystified. Most are said that this agreement will resolve the members of the law, members of the HVO and assist Croats outside the Republic of Croatia who were members of the HVO. No, I don't. This Treaty applies exclusively to nationals of the Republic of Croatia who have been there or those who have rights under Article 1(1) of point 8. as members of the rope family under this Treaty. In such a situation, it should be said that the issue is certainly not fully implemented and that it will likely still be discussed today about the need for a new agreement with Bosnia and Herzegovina. With regard to the implementation of the entire legal system that regulates this legal issue from both Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia, and concerns this category of members of the HVO, the issue of inequality of other HVO members to whom this issue does not apply, for example by calling on the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia on the obligation of Croatia to assist members of the Croatian people outside the Republic of Croatia, the question of their status is raised. It is possible to ask that question, of course, politically, is not legal. But in any case, as a political question, it has its own social and moral dimension. The second thing he would like to point out is the fact that issues concerning the difference to be paid in accordance with Article 6(2) between what they receive within Bosnia and Herzegovina on the basis of the rules and what should be adopted on the basis of the total right to be granted on... The rules of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia are one issue which is actually very practical and very pragmatic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what if it is not paid, then the right is exercised and Bosnia and Herzegovina does not fulfil its obligations by paying those obligations to this category of protectors, or rightholders. Unfortunately, such a situation is very common and present in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The question is then why is this agreement not further resolved, that such funds must be provided and must exercise rights based on this in order to actually be settled by the Republic of Croatia. The third thing that's quite interesting is the retroactiveness of this right that says in Article 6(5). The Republic of Croatia shall be bound by the person referred to in point (8) of Article 1(1) of this Treaty where the scope of the right has been reduced or the right to retire has ceased to be recognised by the relevant law under Article 2 of this Treaty if the status of members of the family of members of the HVO deceased is confirmed. With the fact that the document is to be established by Bosnia and Herzegovina for citizens. Now, the question remains what about those persons who were members of the HVO, who are citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and who no longer reside in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in fact or stay, or in the Republic of Croatia, and who have the right to do so. That category is not covered, and it is legally entitled to these fees. And in that segment, it should not be covered by that aspect which will prepare the implementing documents, process the items. And in this respect, surely something should be done to resolve these issues. Perhaps in this context, the amendments given by Pero Kovacevic on behalf of the HSP Representatives Club on the authority of the family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity to regulate implementing regulations. Maybe that could make this a little less of a problem. And the last thing you'd like to talk about is this contract. In Articles 4 and 5, there is a discrepancy; it is unnecessary, illogically, which speaks quite correctly in Article 4 that the contract will actually take effect by exchanging ratification documents between the two countries. But then there is no point in Article 5 to say that this Law enters into force on the day of its publication in "The People's News" because it is not actually recognised to vacacio legis, and it is not explained why, in accordance with the Constitution, the law is required to enter into force before the end of 8 days of its publication. I think that this situation was simply unnecessary in view of this fact and should have allowed this law to enter into force 8 days from the day of its publication in the "National Journal" of the Republic of Croatia, which I think probably the Proposer himself will fix with the aim of resolving this issue. Finally again, I will vote in favour of this contract because it raises the issue of resolving this issue for the most vulnerable and socially sensitive category of members of the Croatian people who are citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but I stress the problem of persons who are members of the Croatian people, who are also if they did not take military citizenship, that this issue will also be opened with the requirements that, based on nothing, the Constitutional Obligation that the Republic of Croatia is taking care of members of the Croatian people, in fact, to equalize with both this category and in this segment, I think that we have opened up a part of the issues which is far more extensive and far more demanding the implementation of funds from the budget of the Republic of Croatia than it can possibly do at this moment. It may have been also the reason to go to this narrow scope of law, but it is certainly a narrowing question from the point of view of actually implementing a policy that should ensure equal legality of all members of the HVO who participated in the defence of the Republic of Croatia and other territory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54183	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić. He's gone. He's losing his word. We're going to a five-minute club debate. The HDZ representative club, a respected representative, Vice President Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I thank all the representatives and clubs who have supported and supported the adoption of this Law, the acceptance of this interstate treaty, which shows that important things, especially when it comes to the Homeland War are slow, but we certainly come to similar or similar points of view. Of course, the issue of the participation of Croats, but not only Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Croatian Defence Council, we must observe not only in defending their hearths, their houses, their homes, their families in Bosnia and Herzegovina but very much, I don't know what term I would use to contribute to the defence of the Republic of Croatia itself. We who came from the Croatian south, especially the southernmost part when she threatened the danger in the fall of '91. and in '92. In the years, the threats were precise: "This fall we shall read the Mandarins in the valley of Neretva," said Seselj and many others. If it hadn't been for the Croatian Council of Defense who hadn't forgotten who attacked Ravna and where it is, because many were in '91. The responsible factors, responsible politicians from Bosnia and Herzegovina, ignored the fact that it is straight in the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that it is an integral part of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that this should be defended. Not to say that in Široki Brijeg people naked, so to speak, stopped the tanks, what MP Ćosic was talking about and prevented a breakthrough that would mean simple waste, atrophy of the southern part of Croatia that the operation had succeeded. The ambitions were first around Split, and later they were a little more modest than the Neretva Valley towards the south to Dubrovnik. So, the great contribution made by the Croatian Defence Council, not only in the beginnings of the war but also in the release of parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia together with the Croatian Army, is something that is a historical fact and the least we can do is propose to pass this Act which confirms this contract. Of course, I agree with those who say that this is not enough and that we should continue to work to include all those who have the right to do so, so here is a colleague Arlovic mentioned a category of those who should have the right and do not live in Bosnia and Herzegovina or Croatia. What has startled me, and what I must say here, is that some have not yet accepted the Croatian Parliament resolution on the Homeland War and are questioning it. This resolution on the Homeland War, which was adopted in this high House, obliges all officials, all institutions to behave in accordance with this resolution. I was particularly distracted by it, and here I have to say it as an exception to the negative fact that the justification for supporting this agreement mentions that some get pensions from the Italian state because they participated in an occupation, Italian army that was fascist by its idology, so that's why we have to accept this Act. Only the comparison of these two elements does not come into question, this was about defending vital, state, personal, family and any other interests, defending their home, and what a representative here was talking about on behalf of his club about is how this is going to accept it because such pensions are given to some people in some parts of Croatia. It is scandalous, even scandalous such comparison and we are indignantly rejecting such thinking, it has no place in the Croatian Parliament and it is only an exception that confirms the rule that the Croatian Parliament has really come to an urgent consensus with this issue and that we can only welcome it, and we call on the Ministry and the Government to continue to work to protect the rights of members of the Croatian Council of Defence, all people who participated in the defence in the Homeland War, the defence of Croatia and the defence of parts and the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina against aggression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54185	Thank you. HSP representative club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54186	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Croatian Government! We at the HSP Club are pleased that the issue of care for the HVO here has not been considered except... one club as some kind of political issue because of the fact that it is also a moral and legal obligation of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We therefore welcome the appearance of this contract and support the urgency of the adoption of the law on its confirmation. But we also need to be aware of the real fact that the contract is in effect, it starts to apply when Bosnia and Herzegovina is confirmed by Bosnia and Herzegovina as well, and therefore we are asking the Government of the Republic of Croatia to take appropriate measures to ensure that both Bosnia and Herzegovina confirms this contract as soon as possible, because the contract is only confirmed by Bosnia and Herzegovina, or according to ours, according to their regulations, because if there is a delay on their part, it means we haven't actually solved anything, but we've only determined what we're going to do but we can only use it when both Bosnia and Herzegovina confirms it. The exact point is both the fact and Mr Arlović and I have tried to emulate the application and implementation of this contract, meaning purely well-intentioned to prevent all bureaucratic barriers that will be found, which can be found in the application and implementation of this contract. And for this reason, on behalf of the Croatian Party Club, we have proposed an amendment that will give the minister the opportunity and authority to regulate the course and manner of implementation of all rights, meaning that these variants that we have spoken about would not happen. Because unfortunately, we know for ourselves if the deadline is 30 days for members of the Croatian wartime wartime disabled from the HVO that, after the entry into force of this contract, they can apply. If they do not know when the contract has entered into force, they will not be informed of it, but if they do not submit within 30 days, they will lose the right to do so. And it is also necessary to simplify the entire course and procedure of all of this, and that should be regulated by this implementing regulation so that there is no wandering. For example, it is evident here that Bosnia and Herzegovina has not at all designated its competent bodies to act. So, it is necessary to say precisely whether all these requests will be collected in the Office of Defence in a Canton, then will be forwarded to the Croatian Defence Ministry or will be received by a central body from Bosnia and Herzegovina and forwarded to the Ministry of Family and Defence who will then determine that there are still to be delivered to the Croatian Pension Insurance Office for this part if it is the Croatian military disabled members of the HVO who have to go to the assessment of their working ability. And now it must be determined who will make these solutions referred to in Article 6. Whether it will be brought by the ministry or brought by the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, but it must be accurately established. In my opinion, it would be better to bring the ministry or to lay down a regulation that the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute can do the same, but to know exactly when the application on our part begins that there is no doubt who will bring the solution, means the solution Croatia is giving. So that's the difference between the pension that a Croatian military disability would have under these regulations and what it gets in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, for example, we'd get three thousand kunas, and they get a thousand kunas. So, who will bring the two thousand kunas solutions, whether the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute or the Ministry. That's what you have to decide. You also need to decide how the process of estimating your work ability will go. Whether they will all come to Croatia here, or the competent authorities our meanings from the Croatian Pension Insurance Office down on the ground will carry out this part of the assessment of working ability. So these are all issues that could cause barriers to the application and implementation of this contract and that could go to the harm of the victim and that we advocate to finally resolve these issues. So let's go into this, regulate all these situations, and make it impossible for bureaucracy to make anyone possible to make it impossible, and that's possible to exercise his rights and give full information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54187	Thank you. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54188	Your Honor, your Honor, Mr. Representatives! I really didn't mean to speak during today, but hang on to all these napkins, attack yesterday, today there's just a few thoughts for me. The IDS will probably all agree to have the right to its judgment on a new... History and IDS also has the right to court on events during the Homeland War either in Croatia or in Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Everything that's happened hasn't always been, as I would say, clean. There is no doubt that Croatia was a victim of aggression, as there is no doubt that some inappropriate things were happening on the edges of these events. The same was true in Bosnia and Herzegovina with the need to disturb us and insult the conflict between the BiH army and the HVO. Of those 2,000 and 500 people with disabilities, 2,000 of them must have gained disability in conflict with Bosnia and Herzegovina's army. Invalidity for me is sacred. The disabled should be helped, including those in Bosnia and Herzegovina because we know everything, and who has commanded the HVO and who has issued political orders, etc., but because of the peace in this house, I do not intend to lamentate in this assembly with these historical assessments today. In 2006, there should be 41 million kuna for them 8 hundred. It's about 4000 289 kuna a month, 2007. 64 million kuna, for a thousand and 100, that's 4000 857 kuna per individual, 2008. 116 million kuna, for 2,000 500 people somewhere 3 thousand 875 kuna per individual. Every year after that, by 116 million kuna on those 400 or not, I don't know the point of number 400 and some million kunas of 6 thousand 400 people with disabilities from Bosnia and Herzegovina are already receiving from the Croatian budget. In one word, for people with disabilities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia will stand out about 450m to 500m kuna from 2008 between 550m and 600m kuna. Here, however, there was also talk of a sense of shame, humanity, fear, God’s morality, etc. But there was not a word here about Ahmic, the Dretel, the Old Most, all those fights with the BiH Army about some pacts, etc. To possess a speck of humanity as we are transferred by Mrs. Chikesh, Petricevic, as I am because of what was happening about these Ahmics, Drets, etc. I have a dose of shame that would not impute any shame, nor the lack of humanity, as Mrs. Chikesh does to me. No one forgets that the aggression started in Belgrade, that it threatened Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and so much I believe that the conflict with the BiH army should have been avoided. For the end, I don't blame any of the soldiers. I blame someone else. For the end, the disabled all of it. Also all praises for these summer actions, the release of Grahov, Glamoc and so on. All thanks for the role the HVO played in 1991 when the HVO defended the intrusion of Serbian forces into southern Croatia but then until 1994 some other things happened. For the end, don't forget the disabled people of World War II who are in a much worse position or the disabled work Mr. Stazic spoke of.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54189	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54190	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's an absolutely incorrect assumption that a colleague, and we know very well, doesn't possess a shred of humanity. All I care about is how much humanity is owned by a fellow who celebrates communism and forgets Bleiburg, Badgers and the like.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54191	Pero Kovacevic, correction of the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54192	Dear Mr. President, I must correct the politically incorrect allegations of the distinguished colleague Cain. He mentions Amic. Normally, no one approves of Ahmic, but at the same time, there were eight times more Croatian states in the area controlled by the army and Bosnia and Herzegovina, and at the time there were no acts of war in those areas. So 8 times bigger Croatian victims, and you don't mention Konjic, Kakanj and all the other Croatian sites. So let's be realistic and mention everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54193	State Secretary Tomislav Ivić. Here you go, final review.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54194	Thank you very much. Mr. President, I would eventually take this opportunity and thank everyone for a proper debate. Of course we'll also consider these two amendments that have arrived. I think that by adopting this Treaty Act, we are solving a big problem that has been present for years in all debates when it comes to defenders and that this is what we all need to be happy about and I hope that this respected House today will accept this Law by consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54195	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on cooperation in the area of the rights of the victims of war in Bosnia and Herzegovina who were members of the Croatian Defence Council and members of their families. We have amendments that have been submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Club of Representatives of the HSP. I'd like the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54197	The government accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54198	It becomes an integral part of the law. Second, an HSP agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54199	The government accepts this amendment, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-26-0.u54200	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. With 77 votes in favour, 16 abstentions and 4 against the proposed law together with the amendments adopted. We're going to the next point. 8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government, with the Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 428 The Proposer of the Law is the Government. We accepted the application of the first reading of the Law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. Proposer representative State Secretary of the Central Office of the State, the Office of State Administration Antun Palaric will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
