ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73832	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues! Here, this is the first time this report has no obligation to speak to parliamentary deputies about the spending of funds, but about the essence of things. In this regard, the Commission does not decide or has its own resources, so it is not intended to show what the state budget is spending on but to draw attention to the problem of the behaviour of officials in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the Commission for Decision on a conflict of interest submitted its first report in the Republic of Croatia after three years of entering the Law on conflict of interest in the legal force. For this reason, I am sorry that I do not see the members here in the assembly, here is the Vice President Mak, members of the committee from the ranks of Croatian MPs, and his colleague is Pejo Trčević, and all members of the committee outside the ranks of representatives, so the prominent citizens of the Republic of Croatia. For the sake of the Croatian public, I would like to say, apart from members of the panel of colleagues Maka, colleagues of Peja Trčević, colleagues of Maria Bajt in the commission are members of Zlata Djurdjevic at the Department of Criminal Law of the Faculty of Zagreb, then Desa Mlikotin-Tomić are a regular professor at the Department of Law at the Faculty of Economics in Zagreb and Zorislav Antun Petrović president of Transparency International in the Republic of Croatia. This composition of the commission was often not easy in our court for the purpose of preventing conflicts of interest for the first time in the Republic of Croatia to enter into life. As this report is essentially intended for the public in the Republic of Croatia as a complete summary of the important aspect of the responsibility of officials in the public sphere, let me repeat some fundamental rules of law. The legal task of the commission is to decide on a conflict of interest, not to prevent conflicts of interest. Namely, the law is called the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest and the Committee is to decide on a conflict of interest. The conflict of interest under the law exists where the private interests of officials are contrary to the public interest or where the private interest affects or may affect the impartiality of officials in the exercise of public duty. Officials in the conduct of public duties must act with honor, honesty, conscientiously and impartially, maintaining their credibility and dignity as well as their citizens' trust. Officials are particularly responsible to citizens for their actions in the conduct of public duties and citizens have the right to be familiar with the behaviour of officials as public persons in particular with his responsibility for public affairs. The commission is a body acting on the basis of laws, good customs, political responsibilities and credibility of officials. These provisions of the law speak of the meaning and the broader context of the legal concept of conflict of interest, and in this broader context, two very opposite examples of the degree of responsibility of a public person to a specific political community are possible. In one end, for example, some Scandinavian countries have been asked about legal standards to prevent conflicts of interest, and answers have been received that they do not exist at all. They do not exist simply because the rules of good customs are regulated, ethics in the public sphere. The other end of spectrum is made up of any of those countries where public and private spheres are one and the same, and the great benefit of those few who abuse public authority is an accident for most, so conflict of interest needed to be regulated in the form of laws. It is the majority of transition countries, in fact all transition countries and some countries from the old democratic tradition of the European Union. Fortunately, the Republic of Croatia does not belong to any other final assessment. The task of the Croatian Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest is to bring public spheres and public action by officials to the legal situation set out in the law. It is an even greater responsibility for officials and commissions to sensitize the Croatian public to the sensitivity of public duty. The natural context of preventing conflicts of interest is preventing corruption, conflict of interest is often the lobby of corruption and every form of corruption is a conflict of interest. The purpose of preventing conflicts of interest is therefore to create a social climate in which officials will be aware of the expected standards of their behaviour as obligations and the public's right to fulfil that obligation requires officials. The prevention of conflicts of interest is one of the aspects in the fight against corruption by specific means of which nature is neither criminal or strict, nor any other, but essentially a political assessment of its work. It is essential to prevent the law from happening at all. Therefore, the main tasks of the Committee are educational and tactical both towards officials and the Croatian public. The content of the document before you shows that the Committee has led about 15 procedures on conflict of interest to officials. In 5 cases, this conflict has been established and the Commission has managed to challenge both legal and judicial practice in the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia and one of these procedures has been fully confirmed by the Commission, and in the second, the contested part of the decision is still pending, the same number of opinions has been delivered, a good part of the work according to and report devoted to the normisation of proceedings before the Committee which has not been normised at all. But what the Committee wants to highlight by submitting this report is not the numbered data that every report can only quantify problems and content. We wanted to highlight the fact that in 10 and a half months of our work we have tried, and we believe in part and managed to encourage the public in the Republic of Croatia and the public sphere to learn about the basic problems and obligations arising from this law for all officials, regardless of whether they are covered by a tax-based Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. At the very beginning of the work, we also reached agreement on the criteria of order of settlement of cases, knowing how important this is for assessing the objectivity of the work of this Committee. So agreed rules without exception are respected in all procedures and opinions given. Fulfilling our obligations under the law, we also encountered resistance. Especially in fulfilling the fundamental obligation of officials, i.e. handing over property cards on the property of officials and the way in which they acquire that property. However, we can conclude that these difficulties have also been overcome, that the Commission has obtained cards from almost all officials covered by the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, which is indicative of a thousand 200 to say live current officials plus 600 outgoing or incoming officials, which totalled around a thousand and 800 property cards. The property cards that are thus of interest to the public under the legal obligations of each official we have managed to place on the Commission's website. That the Croatian public is interested in this part of the official's obligations shows that the visit on the websites exceeded 400 thousand. My colleagues and colleagues, therefore, the wishes of the Commission, are that the problem of conflict of interest and its prevention should be discussed in the assembly and in front of the Croatian public before it comes before the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest. The point of our report is that the Croatian public is involved in assessing the work of each of us so that when the authorities of the citizens get their choice, they can decide who was credible in politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73833	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73834	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm correcting an incorrect assumption, I believe the lapse of a respected colleague, Lek, who is... At the beginning of his exposure that this is one of the few reports where money is not talked about spending. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is said, and this is said of the privileged spending of taxpayers' money, precisely because of the conflict of interest. For example, the mayor and mayor of Međimurje-Chakovina County and all other cases, as well as members of the external committees, have compensation. So, it's said, it's quite a talk. So I believe it's a lapse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73835	Okay. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, chairman of the Committee, respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73836	Mr. President, President of the Committee, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament held its annual report on the 2005 conflict of interest to the President of the Croatian Parliament at the 66th session held on 5 October 2006. The Committee has discussed the report on the basis of the competences set out in Article 57. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In the debate, the Committee found that the regulation and prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties is a newspaper of the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. In this regard, it is very important that the Commission also acts educationally in this area, as shown in the report, which shows not only the factographic data on the number of items received and solved and the instructions, but also assesses both the situation and propose measures. The Committee will continue to closely monitor the situation in this area of interest in gaining public confidence in the work of state bodies. After the debate, the Committee unanimously proposed by 7 votes to the Croatian Parliament to reach its conclusion the annual Committee for Decision on the 2005 conflict of interest is accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73837	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. For the club representative of the Croatian Democratic Community, respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73838	Thank you very much. In 2003, colleagues and colleagues received the Law to prevent conflicts of interest. It took us a little while, but part of this matter was regulated by the Law on the Rights of Officials where certain provisions existed on what is unacceptable and what is incompatible with the conduct of public duty. What is also significant, after that year 2003, we also received a commission that began to work. The truth is, it took us a certain time to establish it, to choose people who would behave in one way and in a good way. Today it seems to me from this report, from this work so far, that we have really a commission that is doing its job very correctly. We have a President of the Committee who not only is this a political one function, but can actually give one personality because he is a great lawyer and it is actually seen from the work and attitudes that this commission is taking. This law is really important and it seems to me at a very important moment, because when we look at the dignity of public duties, it really isn't high-level. Today, to deal with politics with this kind of media attention, with this kind of one to say a media presentation where it is very often tried out of semi-information to build some kind of story in order to increase the circulation is really very difficult and therefore this law where it is clear at least in the most prescribed what is allowed in the conduct of public duties, what is acceptable and what is not acceptable, I think that we are building a system of a different culture of behaviour in the conduct of these public duties. In any case, Croatia has stepped forward in the development of democratic institutions of our society and that is what this law really does in most of its articles and determines. The law prescribes one definition of what is a conflict of interest and conflict of interest is a situation in which the private interest of officials is both contrary to public interest or where private interest affects or may affect the impartiality of officials in the exercise of public duty. So that's one general definition with which we see that the report also in a particular place is polemising and could even make a clearer and even more precise definition. But when the law is passed, any law not only this, in every law of the previous particular analysis, the previous... Opinions, but it is very difficult at the moment of the law to predict all the situations in life that can arise. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's why every law is hard to respond to in advance to everything in life. And it's just important to establish one practice, it's precisely the kind of situation that's important to solve in the spirit of not only that law, but in the spirit of the entire legal system. We see here in these years how much this commission does, a little bit less. We already have and developed the practice itself in the work of the commission concerning these decisions made, but as we see people have also used the right to apply for the protection of injured rights, which is based on Article 66 of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia, that is so-called. that quasi administrative dispute, so we already have in this sense a certain case-law which will also be relevant in solving these matters. What's important is letting the commission do its job. The law should allow a certain amount of time to live. See what problems we are facing and then maturely consider whether some institutes need to be processed, whether certain definitions need to be specified, explained. Because also going hastily into some kind of change isn't good. We passed this law in 2003. We had one major change in 2004 where we had procedures to regulate the issue of donation, we went quite strictly there, so we limited that the official should not receive and retain a gift greater than some 500 kuna where the government had prescribed a procedure with gifts. We went with one stricter measure that officials who have 0.5 shares in stock companies or ownership or membership roles must transfer management rights to Commissioners. By then, it was 25%, so here we were, even stricter and even more rigorous. The space in any case would be to specify those procedural provisions regarding the pronunciation and sanctions and decisions, but the law should be allowed to live and the law should be allowed to apply. We see the public's interest is great. Mr. Leco said how many visits were actually websites. It is evident that the great interest in the data is related to the property that officials have. These days in public we also listen to what happens in the unknown County of Međimurje. The fact that even two people fell in love, got married, brought attention to the fact that someone married a conflict of interest. That wasn't really controversial to me from the beginning, but here was the commission that had to be made clear about it. I think there's going to be much more important that other question that we've heard, that this viceroy has now been in both the directorship and some management bodies of the museum, while at the same time this museum has been dealing with companies owned by her husband. There will probably be more serious and difficult work for our commission. counterparts and colleagues of the Croatian Democratic Community club back the report. We will give support, because the report is really not just a mere invoice, the report is not only a list of how many sessions, how many procedures were conducted, how many decisions were made, and what decisions were already made, but it is already giving some and the evaluations of the law, but it now has certain views on what direction this should go on. We support the report, we believe that the commission should continue to work, apply the law, develop practice in the application of the law, and after a certain period of time it should be assessed whether some institutes need to be clarified, of course, on the trail of some developed democracies that already have such a system built from before. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues support this report. We have the law, we have the commission, and we see in fact that this institute lives and works in that area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73839	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73840	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm correcting two incorrect allegations of a respected Bosniak. First, he says that the Committee for Decision on Conflict of Interest has been manifested in the case of the mayor and the mayor, as far as I know, it is incorrect. It was just a statement from the president of the commission, which means it's not a commission decision. And another incorrect allegation that a colleague said was impossible when the law was being done and simulated all cases of conflict of interest. It is possible that the proposal of the Croatian Party Club was adopted, which first launched it and where we used the experiences of countries that have developed an institute of conflict of interest so that many of the situations we have led to would not have been brought about if we had adopted our bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73841	For the SDP representative club, respected representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73842	Dear Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club, to say it at first, will support this report. This report is a quality, transparent, written report. And we can say that the Commission has justified its existence in its work so far. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest was passed at the end of the term of the parliament's last term, was later amended, completed, a little more stringent, and would likely need to be completed further. It's unusually important to take the first step. Countries that have a longer tradition of controlling conflicts of interest also have a more elaborate and normative solution. We're gonna have to come to that, too. It's important it's started. Until this Law was laid out, until he had written the concept of conflict of interest in politics in us was neither defined nor controlled. Now it's not like that, but it's a good thing it's not like that, and it'll be even better if that control is better and it's stricter. The commission needs help. First of all, he needs to be financially left alone. His work also depends on the professional services of the Parliament. That's not good. We should find funds in the budget so that the Commission has its own professional service, that it has a better space. They work in one room where they have both the archives and where they meet and where they decide. This archive is neither well-preserved nor stored. Therefore, this is an opportunity, when discussing this report, to invite the Government to, here will now draw up a budget for 2007, to plan more substantial funds for the Committee. To provide them with space, to provide them with financial independence, conditions also for better quality work because the quality of the work of that commission is in the interest, above all, of the official. First of all, the official, and then of course the entire public. The commission doesn't have the opportunity to impose criminal sanctions, and that's good. Of course, it must remain a judiciary because justice is the only thing that can make someone subjectively guilty and punish him. But we all know how the courts work with us. We all know that it's been waiting for years for a powerful verdict, and it's only in that case if the case doesn't go out of date, which is too often again, it happens too often in our justice system. And what happens when we're having an affair? It's usually discovered by the media. Then what does the official who was called say? Which is so to say in the epicenter of that affair? He says, so let the judiciary examine it. It's his only defense. All right. What does the judiciary say? Justice says things are in the process. It's in the process. Well, we have, the other day, a warning from the President of the Republic that he's been asking for 15 years to examine things where the money that people collected in the country's defence accounts for the purchase of weapons went missing. For 15 years, that's what you've been looking for, and for 15 years, you get the answer that it's a matter of procedure, so you can still get the next 15 years. He and the president who succeeds him and the public Croatia. Therefore, with such work of the judiciary, such police work will not be able to meet those requirements that the public sets before officials, which is that they do act responsibly, in the interests of the public and without conflict of interest. We must have an institution that, because the judiciary does not work, will act in real political time. So, which will react when the thing happens. Such an institution can be this commission. It cannot impose criminal sanctions and that is good, but it can establish political responsibility. Because political responsibility can be established both then and before the court finds out whether there is someone's subjective guilt and whether that guilt is sufficiently supported by evidence that it could be established and that the appropriate punishment would be imposed for it. What's it worth today? Why do I say that it needs to be done in political, real political time? What's it worth today, for example? To establish someone's political responsibility for the events that took place 15 years ago? What good is it for us today to establish a political responsibility for, I don't know, one Zagorec, possibly, when he's not an official long ago? No one benefits from this, and if this commission is to be late with warnings, with political warnings or political sanctions, then officials will treat him recklessly and then no word of this commission or any other will mean anything to this society. And they won't encourage anyone to behave responsibly in their duties. In that sense, I would also have critical remarks on the work of the Committee itself. I wonder why the Commission in this 2005 report didn't provide an analysis of cases that could have already been processed? A case, for example. who had a great public interest. In the end, which also resulted in some political shifts when a former foreign minister was removed. Why aren't these cases processed in this report? And I think they should have been. I think they should be in the public interest, in the interest of a removed official, in the interest of all others acting in public duty. Was this the commission, I wonder, discussing, for example, the French thing, was it discussing Verona? Not that I've seen in the reports, no, about Verona. It's not. This is the 2005 report, Mrs. Byte, and you're absolutely right. I'm just if you're listening to me talking about the need for this commission to work in real political time. to process things that are currently on the agenda. I'm not asking why Veronica isn't in this report, because it's logical that she didn't, but I'm asking if the Committee has discussed it at all in its current work and I think it's a legitimate question. This is where it was sought, in this assembly, I personally asked for the current morning to respond when the prime minister would present the accounts. Just bills, nothing else. There's no doubt that someone did something. Accounts. I didn't get the answer. Not me, the public didn't get an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73843	Fellow Stazic, this is the Commission's report on the 2005 conflict of interest. So please stick to the topic and don't expand the theme for 2006.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73844	On page 19, Mr. President of the Parliament, you have point 3 at the bottom. – the opinion of the Committee, where it is said that the Committee should be prescribed a commitment to propose political responsibility. Therefore, in the very report of this Committee, only the Committee asks this House, from you Mr. President as President of the Parliament, of me as a representative in this House, of all colleagues and colleagues, to make this proposal manifest to the Commission itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73845	It is principled nature, procedural nature, principle nature, these are the Commission's proposals which should be included in the work of the Committee, not... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73846	That's exactly what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73847	Yeah, not increto about some possible case that would treat and discuss the work of the Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73848	Yeah, look, the Committee isn't just discussing principle issues, which unfortunately has to deal with specific cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73849	Yeah, but for 2005. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73850	No, the commission was founded to deal with current issues. Well, well, Mr. President. We're not talking about Verona. We don't have an account, the only reaction is an extremely funny little song with us that's orbiting the web. So far, we don't know, namely the Committee didn't discuss it, and I'm asking why. No matter what the commission's decision would be. Maybe any doubt would be lifted, so God forbid any doubt is lifted, so no one happier than me and all the agents here. Because this would mean strengthening the integrity of the Republic of Croatia. All her officials. But I'm asking why there's no discussion about cases that fill the daily newspaper every day, headlines. For example, whether the Committee should discuss whether a minister is in conflict of interest, I think he should, because he is also a minister. Is it legitimate that the Committee is asking itself whether a minister who is the chairman of any supervisory board of any supervisory board...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73851	Comrade, stop your fellow Stazic. A fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73852	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73853	I warned you. This is about the annual report of the Commission on the conflict of interest for 2005. Possible hypothetical cases that may or may not be discussed or initiated before the Committee are not the subject of this Report, and do not, again, tell you not to go in because you are moving away from the topic because this is not the subject of the debate from 2006 on what the Commission needed, which should not and what cases should be dealt with. Let's stick to this strictly for 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73854	Oh, Mr. President, I am in principle discussing that if a minister would, I don't know which one, I didn't think of any, and I don't know which one of you ministers were thinking about when you warned me that I was speaking out of the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73855	It's not in principle or individually, it's...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73856	I'm not saying, I didn't mention any minister, I'm just wondering if the Committee is dealing with ministers. It's in the business. Is that what the law says? It says. And now I'm thinking further, if some minister were to be the chairman of some supervisory board, I don't know who you meant when you interrupted me, whether or not the commission should question whether the minister has failed to monitor for any private interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73857	In 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73858	Furthermore, in 2005, 2006 and 2007
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73859	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73860	And every year.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73861	Well, not this other one. This is out of the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73862	That might be out of your league. The public and this country are certainly not out of the question, I think they find this topic far more interesting than the theoretical debate on how this report was written for 2005. But Mr. President, if you won't let me talk about it, listen, then I must obey. You can certainly silence me, but you will not silence the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73863	I'm just warning you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73864	You will not silence the Croatian public, you will not silence those who demand that officials behave responsibly.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73865	I won't shut anyone up and please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73866	And whether he's going to behave depends responsibly on the quality of the work of this commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73867	I'm just warning you of Article 210. The Rules of Procedure that the speaker can talk about the topic under discussion, and the topic is, the debate is on the Commission's report on the prevention of conflicts of interest for 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73868	We therefore propose to accept the recommendation of the Committee itself expressed in three points, in particular in 3rd, that the Committee should be subject to the obligation to propose political responsibility, including the proposal to recall state and local officials. This, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, will not be able to work for the previous year, it will have to be done immediately because unfortunately it will be too late in 2008 to propose to replace Minister Vukelic. He won't be a minister then.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73869	Thank you very much. And this is again the proposal one, put forward these proposals to amend a law that would regulate sanctions for others, some other sanctions for established conflicts of interest. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73870	Unfortunately, it is not the correct assumption that President Mesic has been asking for 15 years to reveal the secret accounts. For the first time, he spoke out in 2000 when he promised in the "New York Times" that he would find 2 billion robbed money and close members of President Tudjman's family, and at the time the accounts were opened in '90. The year the first account was opened was the president of the Croatian government, and when the other accounts were opened he was either the president of the Croatian Parliament or was on other important duties.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73871	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Ivan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73872	Coli Stazic incorrectly said in his statement that the commission was to discuss the replacement of the foreign minister in the past year. That is not simply true because the foreign minister has not been removed but has resigned.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73873	Third Amendment, Honorable Representative Miomir Zuzul.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73874	Thank you very much. I am well aware of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of that time, and I categorically claim that he resigned without being removed, but I agree with Mr. Stazic's presentation, although you have stopped him from doing so. It is indeed necessary to address how it is possible for a former minister and an active member of this Parliament to fully lobby in one case, in any event, to do so in agreement with his party, expecting material gain if not for himself, then for his party. However, this one does not sit on this side, is not from HDZ and everyone can easily identify and probably Mr. Stazic is also concerned.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73875	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Maria Byte, next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73876	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Stazic has repeatedly returned to the topic that the commission did not discuss Verona. This is a false allegation because the commission has been discussing Verona, has reached certain conclusions, but it is entering into what you have repeatedly warned the envoy in the 2006 report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73877	Representative Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73878	The inaccuracy of fellow Stazic when he said the responsibility of state officials depends on how the Committee for Conflict of Interest works. That's completely incorrect. Responsibility is personal, it's a human trait. Therefore, it is a matter of conscience, not that it will happen because it will not work well or will work well for the Committee of Conflict of Interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73879	HSP club, respected representative Pejo Trčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73880	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The Croatian party club has no reason not to support this 2005 Report because it mentions what the commission actually did and what it does. However, some things still on behalf of the club I must say what and in what respect the Commission had problems in its work. Already, the chairman of the Committee, Mr. Leco, said that the lack of the Commission having its own funding item is therefore not self-sufficient for funding. Maybe that's not such a problem, but the problem is that he said that alluding to the fact that the Commission doesn't spend any money and that it's not a report of money. However, I have to make clear to the public that MPs actually from the Croatian Parliament are doing everything they do whether in the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, do not receive any compensation on certain committees. I know from personal experience that most people in the public think that MPs receive compensation for their work on committees, in committees and in other bodies. That's not true. However, outside members of the commission have compensation and which is fine. So we have nothing against it, but I have to mention a few things in this debate that actually hinder the work of the commission and make it impossible for it to work. Mr. Stazic said it is good that the commission works as it does and that it has no right to impose sanctions. I agree as a member of the commission that it is good for the commission, but this commission does so in a way I would say preventively warning officials if they are in conflict of interest to come out of conflict of interest and possibly sanction is that it is public in the press that the official is in conflict of interest on his expense and that is where all our jurisdiction over sanctions ends, and the public expects us to do a lot of things and sees us as a commission as if we are some sort of direct court which is not true. So, the commission works that way as preventively acting. Another question is raised which we are very interested in in the club HSP, which is whether the Committee should work in public or in secret? In fact, we at the HSP club hold that it would be better for the Commission to do proceedings in some way secretly because the public initially initiating some kind of conflict of interest of an individual official in advance as well as some press releases the officials guilty because they are impatient, they do not have time to wait for the Commission to decide whether the official is in conflict of interest or not. There is another question, I believe, that many who do not want the Committee to do it properly, and that is whether the Committee of Conflict of Interest should deal with dinners, whether it should be done where an official actually walks, with whom dinner is being paid, whether the Commission should conduct a process of proving whether individual officials are paying cards on their expenses, buying for individual games and sports events? As a member of the Committee on the Committee itself, I said that the Committee should not deal with the margins because if the Committee is going to deal with these marginal matters, then there is no time to deal with those legal matters which are why this Committee exists. So, as the Committee deals with these tiny dinners, certain river matches pass. On behalf of the HSP club I can only say that here we have two days ago a case of the game, a football match between Croatia and England where we could all see a large number of officials in the lodges, and we all know that all cards are over 600 kuna. So should the commission deal now, determine which officials were at that game, whether they paid tickets or they got... I agree Mr. Cain with you, however...... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr. President, please! ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] There was a game in 2005, but I'm telling you about the lack of law because how the commission would act quality if it were to determine everything I've said so far. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, the commission should have several hundred detectives to prove it all. ... There is another big misunderstanding that the commission has dealt with and I hold on behalf of the club HSP in order to discuss it in some way and in this Croatian Assembly, i.e. even better said that the committee, or the Committee on Law, could also give some credible and authentic interpretations in this regard. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] In fact, officials, MPs in the Croatian Parliament can also conduct public duties in the bodies of local, regional and regional self-government without consent normally, because they are incompatible duties, without the consent of the Croatian Parliament, because they are not appointed to these duties but are directly elected. Therefore, the HSP club, on this occasion and on the occasion of asking the Committee on Law, to give an authentic interpretation of this law in this respect whether, in this case, a parliamentary representative who performs his duties in the bodies of local self-government has the right to compensation, or whether he has any compensation at all, because in talks with a few officials, they also claim that they do not receive any compensation or additional costs in the Croatian Assembly where they have salaries. Then we have to say in a Decidence and the Legislative Committee must say that you have absolutely no compensation or compensation for working in local self-government, i.e. that they have to work on volunteering.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73881	I'm a colleague of the Merchants! Limit yourself to the 2005 report. These are other initiatives, proposals. Just as I warned Stazic's representative not to enter any initiatives that should, what changes to the law, make decisions. Please, let's limit ourselves to this part.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73882	Mr. President! Thank you very much for your warning. I said at the very beginning that I wanted to warn on behalf of the club about the shortcomings in the quality of the commission's work last year. So this is all I said that burdened the quality work of the Committee to prevent conflict and interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73883	Okay. Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73884	As far as this report is concerned, we accept it as it is because there's nothing to actually add or subtract. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73885	Thank you. Croatian Representatives' Club, respected representative Luka Roic. Has this initiative been sent to the Committee on Legislative Interpretation Legislatives Committee according to the Legislatives Committee? ... I'm asking if she was sent. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. ... [[Intruder: No.]] Here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73886	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Commission's first annual report to decide on a conflict of interest, and of course it must draw far more attention than it would have been if such a commission and such a law had become since the establishment of a free and independent Croatian state. Too late, too late, the law was put into practice. And to discuss only 2005 means to limit the debate and not to shed light on all aspects that should be highlighted from this pay phone when this problem is at stake. I am sad that President of the Parliament prevented the speakers from speaking because for the first time this report was on our benches and limited the speech only to 2005. We could all probably completely clean our consciences to accept this report, praise the Commission's work for 2005, because there really is nothing in it we could talk about, regardless of what the commission probably did very well in its work. I am therefore sad and joyful, which I will probably next year, if I am alive and healthy to talk about 2006, where I will speak freely about the conflict of interest on issues whether the prime minister was in conflict of interest when he went to Verona...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73887	Comrade Roic! I shall be bound by Article 210(2) if the speaker gets away from the topic to warn him. And here's the debate on the 2005 commission report. So, I'm bound to do it, I have to do it and distract him to stick to... A representative away from the topic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73888	So I understand that you're trying to direct the debate but I'm really not talking about 2006. I'm talking about being sad that I'm going to have to talk about what I'm probably going to have to find out in that report whether or not there was a conflict of interest and that it wasn't anyone or someone who was punished. I'm just talking about it, and I'm not talking about what you're saying I'm not actually talking about the report. I'm saying that the report is mutilated because it's only focused on a very short period of time that we haven't had a chance to talk about this big problem for 13 years and that you'd probably interrupt me now if I started talking about the conflict of interest of various of our dignitaries who in a fat-dick mustache and who were in a big conflict of interest and we could never publicly talk about it from this pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73889	Yeah. Well, it would have to be you, not me, but the Rules of Procedure... I only pronounce through the spirit of the Rules of Procedure. I know.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73890	Okay. I'm not saying that you're wrong when you interpret the Rules of Procedure that way but I would also remind here that I'm going back to the subject in principle but on the other hand. In the people you have to admit, it's an insult to think that anyone who doesn't know about himself doesn't know about anyone else. It is a common people who are well - known, and many can use it very well. And what kind of politician is he who has failed to make material use of himself in fifteen or ten years of politics? And of course it doesn't matter and many politics will mark it in our society as the oldest or compare it to the oldest trade in the world. And these are very, very interesting qualifications of people who have to be translated into one quality law in order for the very attitude and this opinion that the government in this people has completely changed and politics to begin to understand as a very honorable, responsible and above all I would say the responsible work that should be the primary goal for every politician. Statements, remember, I don't think I'm going to break the rules of procedure if I say that some officials even publicly said that his choice of policies is actually driven by business and the benefits that that policy can give him. And these are actually the ones that would have to talk very, very critically about these problems, talk about everything that's already been known that all of you and all of us who are going into politics, who are dealing with politics, forget about private interests if we deal in public. That's what I mean by this law. I'd like one of those, too. I would suggest that all of our colleagues or friends who have been caught with their fingers in honey or caught in an open can and who have failed to put their hand to the end that we in some way best punish them, that we tell them that you will participate in political life in the future by going to elections with an ad that you will pay for yourself and you will indicate that you are in conflict of interest and that you have violated ethical and moral principles which are characteristic and which are mandatory in politics. Minimumly, everyone knows it's about those who didn't deserve to be involved in public affairs and actually find their own interest in the way they found it. The commission is of course, I really think it's modest of the commission which is only five cases, in fact, in some way of fifteen decisions made by fourteen opinions, that only five decisions were found to be in conflict of interest and that there were two that after the dispute at the Administrative Court, it was actually confirmed or one and the other was still in the process. This is very modest to me, and it seems to me that the policy on this report would be far more than I would say a positive opinion and atmosphere that actually does not exist in Croatia when it comes to politics. I was also distracted by the fact that out of a thousand and 143 officials and with those who changed in the meantime, a thousand and 800 officials, not all met the property card. I think whether it did 95 or 98, or 99% of the officials, I think everyone should have done it, all those who didn't do it in violation are legally. And I think that needs to be said very clearly and unequivocally. Whether the future work of the commission will be better quality and whether it will actually be able to track the problem depends certainly on its role, on independence and independence above all financial and spatial because we have all heard that the commission is working on very modest conditions, that we cannot actually expect from such a way of working results that would be to the satisfaction of all. Once I think that we should certainly very, very actively approach this problem, provide the Commission with all those material resources, all those conditions that are necessary for such responsible work to be carried out. I guess if that's the case and the commission has all those assumptions that they can do quality work that by the year we'll really be able to discuss the case and the marriage couple Posavec and the married couple of the second and the third and the departures, and the affairs they've been having. Speaking of affairs that were and in the last year, the commission took no position. And it seems to me no matter what it is about our colleague or colleagues who went to the game and who, of course, were at the expense of someone else and who used their position for any benefit or any kind of privilege, and that can really be passed on to all of these cases that my colleague had talked about before me. I think that regardless of what these are about very minor problems they are in politics very important. The principled attitudes must be exactly the same. It can't be done. It's very difficult to actually limit a procedure that is or is not in public. He's either honest or unfair. This is a question of ethics, morals, personal morality, first of all, and it really has to be very detailed and rigorous. It must not be easy to go over any insubordination made by a state official to actually provide for himself in a material advantage because it is a very, very bad sign and a signal for people who look at us as those who would have to be more capable and smarter, and more responsible, both better and a role model to all those who voted for us. I listened the other day to one of our politologists who said he was just nervous and upset that we in the Assembly were all so ordinary and normal that it was simply unrecognizable how normal we are and how ordinary we are and why we are probably suffering and with the right criticism of certain people who would want politics to be something sublime.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73891	We're going to propose to that politician for the Nobel Prize.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73892	Well, you know what? That politician said he would really vote for abnormal. I know it's too much and maybe you're right.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73893	It's a respected politician one we really need to nominate as soon as possible for the Nobel Prize.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73894	I speak in principle in the most positive sense of the word because I think under normal of course we mean... and mediocrity, not normality, in the sense in which you may have now reacted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it's good. I am saying that this is a law that can certainly direct Croatia's future in a way that profiles politicians and people who will first of all worry about general problems, about general issues, which will not easily come to the temptation that because of petty or large private interests, they ignore their social and general character, which will not allow their conflict of interest to turn into corruption and crime because it is what destroys every society and I think that Croatian society is broken, exhausted and actually burdened with these problems. I watched last night's TV show like you did "Open," you were probably proud that we had achieved our own country regrets that in this way and in this way you had to talk about politics and must actually accept what was completely insane to achieve the goal. I know there were specific conditions, but I think that's the kind of show and all these shops that were too much in that sense. And that is why I advocate that this commission be very, very urgent, to monitor all the activities of politicians coming out of the law framework, to sanction them, to propose to them, and even to change the law by which such representatives and such politicians will be able to call off and in some way punish for everything that is unacceptable in politics. And so me and my club will support the committee's report, indicating that there's very little in it that's what we're supposed to be. Who's to blame? Is it the commission's fault or is it all of us who aren't active enough in disclosure and public speaking? First of all, this is a law that points to the public, in all of the urn to say what a politician is and what he does and how he works. And that is why we will support this law, and we expect the commission to be very, very rigorous in the future, to be more up-to-date, and to be more numerous in terms of detection, not in terms of wanting such works, revealing such works and sanctioning them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73895	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73896	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'm sorry to hear that I have to correct my esteemed representative and friend, colleague Luka Roic. Because he didn't exactly say that so far we haven't had a chance to discuss officials who've got a lot of grease on their mustache. We had, here we had a debate about the Commission of Investigations on the fact-finding contracts between state bodies and companies owned, partly owned by officials where there were no fire debates, and the official who had the most greasy mustache today wants to become prime minister. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73897	For the club HNS, respected representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73898	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask you one thing. It limited the debate to 2,000, to this report for 2005. Since I was the acting officer, I'd like to ask you 10 sentences about 2004.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73899	And unfortunately, I'd very much like to please you, but the Rules of Procedure won't allow me to come out, wish, favor.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73900	Then I'm willing to accept all the warnings you're giving me.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73901	No, there's only one, there's one, you know. Then it's over. After the second warning, it's a red card, isn't it? So, but you won't use him clearly.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73902	Thank you. No, I won't. That red card won't. Here's the thing. I've been elected President of the Committee for Conflict of Interests in my time. And I want to publicly thank the people who have made their full contribution in this commission. It's in the first row Mrs. Maria Byte, it's Mr. Davor Derencinović, it's Mr. Peter, Maria Radelj. They are the ones who deserve to be commended for participating actively in the work of the Committee. We held 20 sessions at the Committee, actually 20 times we met in 8 months and 4 expert meetings. And in our work, we've had the same problems that we're facing and this current commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73903	My fellow Capraljevic, be kind, then be on, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73904	And I'm going back to class now...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73905	I agree that you should have submitted a report to the commission that you led, which for some strange reasons has not been filed. But...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73906	Not from the strangest, from the parliamentary blow to the commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73907	That, yeah, yeah, that's enough, that was a coup against the Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73908	No, parliamentary.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73909	Parliamentary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73910	In its report, the Commission cited all those requirements that we have also instructed, which is to resolve the status of the Commission, to resolve the financing of the Commission and to address the material and technical conditions for the work of the Commission. The HNS club will in any case support this report by the Commission. And I want to, with my debate, contribute to the commission's finally getting on its feet and allowing it to work. The commission works in 20 squares, in conditions in which it is impossible, that eyewitness they are obliged to lead about officials where it is impossible to keep that archive, where they meet in conditions where they do not have enough seats or where 3 employees work in the same space where they should have meetings. These are conditions in which you can't work. It's time for two budgets. For one budget and one rebalancing, I gave the amendment to get rid of the Commission's funding. That amendment was not accepted. All those members of the Committee who were in my day, the outside members of none of them even got for their arrivals at 20 sessions, were not paid a tram ticket to come to the session, either of them. It's settled now. When we tried to solve it with the Regulation, then it was said that it couldn't be solved by the Regulation. Fortunately, we've changed the law. The political will to work for the commission is most important. I claim that there are no political will for some today, and there are not enough in some. Because if there were, these conditions for the commission's work would be fulfilled. In the first row, we're now moving to Demetrov. There's some new space opening up here, too. Why doesn't the Committee be assigned an adequate space so they can start working? There's no such thing as a simple reason. I claim from that political will. I claim that the Commission does not respond either to the authorities or to the opposition because it enters the space in which conflict of interest exists in each other. And I also heard that while I was acting as acting president of the Committee, and also after that it was the Commission's total nonsense, that the conflict of interest should not be debated at all, that today there were stories about whether or not the map of conflict of interest was donated, in fact whether or not it was a bribe, so we heard even in some debates that they, too, were the bribes of five thousand Euros that were not corruption, we heard a lot of things and therefore I claim that many believe that this commission should be put out. I believe, however, that this commission needs to be strengthened and strengthened in a way that changes the law and assigns it to the Commission, a different possibility of sanctions. Because these three types of sanctions they now have are practically nothing. In any case, the Commission needs to strengthen it and strengthen it through sanctions. The amendments to the law must also be attended by members of the Committee because they know best what problems and what demands people face. Their independence must also be unquestionable. For now there is no, there is no first of material, of technical, and even of one part and of political independence there is no. They must be independent in their work. And with all that independence, it's a very important, important public work. To know what the Commission's doing. And it is especially important to know what the Commission has done, to publish exactly all those who have been in conflict of interest. Because so far, we have witnessed five conflicts of interest they have declared. It's about Mr. Chehok, Mr. Rabbit, Mr. Ronk, Mr. Bagaric, and I don't know that gentleman on the fifth. But in every normal society these people who were declared to have been in conflict of interest would no longer participate in politics. I'm sure they wouldn't be involved in politics. Why is it like that with us? Because our citizens are still not critical enough of their politicians. Our salaries count, our pensions count, and I don't know what they don't, and when someone shows up in a conflict of interest, the citizens go over it. And they're moving on because they're not well-informed enough. Which we didn't tell them correctly what a conflict of interest is, because there's a lot of stuff going on in the conflict of interest for the simple reason that this public work of the Commission isn't enough. All instructions for future and possible conflicts of interest must be published on the Internet, they must be published in "The People's Newspaper" in order for officials to know what they can't actually do. Many of the mayors have no idea what they can't do. Because they never even read the Law to prevent conflicts of interest. Seminars should be organised, they should meet these mayors, mayors, mayors and all other officials who are not allowed to do what they do. The Commission can't do that because there's no financial resources. 'Cause they got nothing to go out with. I would also like to point out one thing, and I would also like to commend Mr. Juru Bitunjec for our mandate, who has resolved his conflict of interest on a call from the Commission, and I would also like to commend Mr. Darko Shantic, who is the only state official who has left his post and left when he saw that the Croatian Bar Association does not allow him such work.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73911	My colleague, don't go into cases that have been completed long ago, absorbed, please, it's not the subject of this report. The report from the commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73912	Well, then I'll be back to the report. As for the Report, the Committee inherited the database we created and where we entered the property of the official, before I went to the database, I just want to say the media got it a little wrong, but they didn't understand but simply mistranslated. Property cards are not intended to tell them who is the richest, who is the poorest, but their task is to compare the assets at the beginning of the mandate and at the end of the term of office and to see what the official has gained in that term. The commission inherited one database where we introduced a thousand hundred and I don't know how many officials, and there were 146 officials in that database who were on the Supervisory Board. The commission was also succeeded by 176 officials who owned a stake in companies larger than allowed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73913	He's a colleague of Kapraljevic's. So we are not discussing the report of the committee that you led You, Mr. Caine, you have to hold back. [[Intruder: Let people talk.]] Please stick to the subject. Don't talk about your work...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73914	Mr. President, in this case, I am sticking to the subject because these same officials have been inherited by this Committee and are covered in this report. Because at the end of their term...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73915	Well, I don't mind having a discussion about the Committee's report later to discuss the entire work of the commission that you've been leading, but that's not the topic right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73916	No, I'm not asking at all at this point to discuss the work of the commission of that one, but this one. I invite them to, I call them for what they didn't do. They should have questioned in that base those 140 people on the boards whether they were receiving compensation, whether they were receiving compensation and whether they were in conflict of interest. For these 176, which are the owners of shares in companies, they should have examined whether they transferred their shares to other persons or not. Either they sold these companies or I don't know what they did to companies or they're in conflict of interest. These six who share legal advice needed to examine whether they were receiving compensation, some also wrote that they were receiving compensation, which is a classic conflict of interest. I'm talking about the fact that the commission from that base only had to examine that base for more than 200 officials who wrote to themselves in the property card that they were in conflict of interest. I'm talking about it, and those same officials were supposed to file their property cards again at the end of the term. And it doesn't say in this report that even more needed to collect property cards. So it says that a thousand 300 were collected, and there were 600 more who left at the end of the term, so a thousand 900 needed to collect property cards. That's what I'm talking about, Mr. President, and that's part of this mandate, not my mandate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73917	That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73918	Why it wasn't done is probably going to be again, probably the president will say that because they didn't have a way to search the base and run it. I'm saying it could have been in the future that it had to be done that way. What they have is to first examine the property cards and what they write in them.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73919	Thank you. In 10 and 45, it was time to report a debate of 10 minutes on this subject. Dear Representative Zlatko Kramaric, Club of HSLS Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73920	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I hope that by appealing to the president and his sense of democracy he will allow.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73921	Tell the team you want to go wrong, into the forbidden subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73922	No, I'm not going in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73923	That's it, you're already announcing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73924	I'm announcing, but that's exactly why I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73925	That's why I can't please you, I can't please you, unfortunately, just like other colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73926	Not me, let me say. If this report is already written in the Esposoic language, and it is or as my colleague Letica said it was a novel with a key, then it will still be very difficult in the same way to talk about this really serious and serious subject, and yet there is no need to remind ourselves of these folk wisdom and proverbs and to say from now on... goat ears and that we all know the truth and that we're trying to avoid it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And just for those, that's why if I happen to take a little detour with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73927	But you'll be on guard so you won't get out of the way.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73928	Exactly, but I'd like to warn you the same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73929	You will remain on the right path as you have always been on the right path.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73930	Exactly. And on page 22 of this report and his colleague, Leko, as chairman of the Committee, somehow made it appear that he had already entered 2006 when he said that in the first four months of this year the Commission had received 50 requests. In a way, that gives me the right to be, to take a little detour from the right path. But yet what's really important is the fact that we have this report on the agenda in 2006 shows that it is still moving, slowly, slowly, but certainly. There is a critical public and what was once preceded today is almost impossible to predominate. I remember back in 1989 when I was in Canada, watching TV and then the Prime Minister... He landed in Vancouver, came there skiing and landed with a state plane and the first thing he was asked at the airport was how much would it cost to the taxpayers of Canada? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The first question is, how much does his skiing cost taxpayers? As I came from the country of the former Yugoslavia, I still have to admit I was pleasantly surprised because at that time such a question could not be asked in any way and today it is still that since '89. By 2006, however, something significant has changed, and such issues are now relatively unhindered. Obviously, we still have problems to determine the sphere, the border between privacy and the public, and it doesn't really work, or it doesn't go that easily because it's not a small thing if I don't know how to live for a long time, you're educated, you're educated, and you're acting on some rules of the then games that are very often these habits, or bad habits to get rid of. Well, then someone can also think that some things are marginal today, that they're insignificant and there's no point in mentioning them, but then where's that border that's getting marginal. Normally, today is not considered too polite to ask if someone I don't know has been married several times, so every time in those wonderful times he could leave his previous wife an apartment, today it's impossible to do it then it was a very normal and logical behavior. Normally, such behavior is not normal and it is good that we are sensitized today and that no one will ever think of it again, or that they can get married and part ways, but then they well know that the wider social community will not be willing to give him a new apartment for free. But it all shows that though. ... No, my friend Lonchar, it's not just about that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So I said in the esope language, there's no need to speak the Esposian language, but it's not just this person or that individual, in the end, it was just to say public behavior. It was not only one person's beauty, but it was part of one... The assembly and in the end many of us are coming, or are being held... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This behavior then, or the same colleague says that something is marginal about whether or not it's traveling to some football games, and that it's someone else's sponsor whether or not it's a conflict of interest, obviously I'm saying things change. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also here we have recently had bizarre news that a minister in Sweden had to resign because of a small matter. We run it under the section of bizarre, someone here would say marginally precisely because they abused their position as officials and used it for a private purpose. I'm just hoping that the intensity and what's been going on within the last few years when we started with this Law of Conflict of Interest where it's precisely that this thing is normal for us to become normal, that we don't get too surprised. Normally, the experiences are always painful, oversick first experiences precisely because someone has to be Pedro, someone will actually hang, but that's my God, what they say, the first kittens throw themselves into the water and we just face each other and just from that and here very often we actually feel like they're shooting two sides and that actually no one, always the opposition accuses the position or position of accusing the opposition and that simply the measure of things skips or constantly competes who is more or less bad or good. And that's why I'm saying no matter what my remarks are, is it good for the committee to be members of the Parliament? I don't think that's good. We were on that show, my colleague Leko and I, I think it was called "Contraplan" when we just agreed with that fact exactly because the fact that the commission is involved in the work and the parliamentary representatives always actually have this, that bitter feeling that it's actually working, that it's not a completely neutral body, precisely because some things we approach selectively, so one case, the case x is I don't know, Mayor Varazdin is a problem, and I don't know the mayor of another city is not or it's a minor problem. It is precisely this arbitraryness that selectivity should in some way be avoided and I think there is no reasonable reason for this commission to be removed from the general even from this building and, in the future, it is not only for us parliamentary representatives but also for ministers and government and local officials, that it really works somewhere else, and I think that then and in some way objectively, their neutrality would be somewhat greater by definition. This... Now accept or not accept? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This report... knowledge. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's what it is. You've been described... Cases that marked their work in 2005. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Obviously, the problems don't stop. The public is sensitized but what I say is big is whether this law could or should be better, and if for some time I think that plagiarizing or copying or taking some solutions that already exist in legal practice, it's not copyright work, it's not scientific work, so it's allowed, that some legal solutions from some other countries might be freely copied, because it seems to me that our commission is working that it's actually not too great. It is in this sense that I support this feeling, or in the public, that a critical mass is created that people are sensitized, that the obvious problem of corruption is very important, that people are asking, that officials when they act by the authorities and when they make decisions to be responsible, to be responsible for them now and also when they are discovered in some way. And here I disagree with my fellow Stazic that there really is certainly what is happening right now, and that is most important, but here I read in the paper the other day that the Dutch Parliament apologized for the Dutch's behaviour as an imperial colonization force for the events in Indonesia, from 1949 to me. So even after 50 years, in fact, in some way, it's obvious that this awareness of one, the colonial discourse has now received some new content, and then in the same way we have a lot of rights, and yesterday we were also witnesses that some topics were actually being opened and that simply if nothing else was public looking for a satisfactory assessment and it wouldn't be good to plant under the carpet, or that we actually have to dig the pit and yell that Emperor Troyan has goat ears. So here's how the HSLS Club is going to take this report into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73931	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations, respected representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73932	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Kramarić, as far as I could understand, said it was normal for someone to split up more times and leave those apartments, that it was in some former ones. Well, I don't think it's ever normal for someone to break up more than once, so... Yeah, that's not normal. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73933	It's not a colleague, it's a correction to an incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73934	And it's not normal for him to leave those apartments.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73935	It's a correction to a different view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73936	If you don't believe, ask those parents' children.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73937	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Let's go! Order, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73938	Your Honor, Mr. President! I am correcting the incorrect allegations of a distinguished colleague, Kramarić. I think the lapus was made when he mentioned the Minister in Sweden had to resign because of bizarreness and other cases. That's the problem. Sweden, Germany and many other Western European countries have developed an institute of conflict of interest and for them, when a minister is used by an official car in Sweden and has no right or in Germany, it is not bizarre. Well, by the time we figure it out, then we'll have a whole other system of conflicting interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73939	That was Mr. Kramaric's lapus.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73940	Lapsus, I said yes. And he meant well, probably.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73941	Lapsus, yeah. Honorable representative Ivo Loncar, correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73942	Well, here's what my colleague Kramaric said in the enthusiasm of his debate that this report was written in Ezopo's language. I'll make it right the next way, and I'll prove to him that it wasn't written in Ezepian when he said that at some golden time when people were separated from their wives, they'd leave their apartments to them. Well, I don't see it in that, Mr. Kramaric, absolutely nothing wrong. I know one example, one prominent party friend who was even the party's boss. He left apartments to each of his solidarity friends. And what's wrong with that? There's absolutely nothing wrong with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73943	Thank you very much. IDS representative club, Honorable representative Damir Cain, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73944	I'll be right there. Let the Committee on the Protection of Human and Women, etc. It's the right thing to do. Here's as much as it makes sense, this commission may be on some other occasion, but it really shouldn't be about whether one of the mayor's bribes or viceroys got married, who, where, to whom he leaves apartments, etc. They should be congratulated. And here I am from this pay phone on your behalf and joining them. Now, the other thing is if someone's setting someone up for a job, leaving apartments, etc. Now what? It's clear here, we have a report here. It should be discussed, and when I say how much that makes sense, then first of all I think about these examples of opinions adopted by the committee listed on page 11. And now watch. Examples of opinions adopted by the Commission. Under a): The mayor may be a member of the Supervisory Board, a company, if it is a commercial company by a decision of the City Council declared to be a company of special interest in the city. Under b: President of the Municipal Council, acting on a voluntary basis as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Commercial Society, shall not be entitled to compensation for work. Under c): A top athlete has the right to receive scholarships from that base. The official under d) shall have the right to receive compensation as a lecturer at the music school, the head of the municipal council acting as municipal chief shall be a member of the management and supervisory board of a non-profit legal person but without the right to compensation for work other than travel and other expenses. The official of the mayor, who is at the same time the owner of companies engaged in international expedition and transport, is obliged to comply with the provisions of the law, etc. So that's what this commission was about. I think it's precisely because of these examples that I've quoted here that because of work or this kind of work, or because of this kind of matter that we're dealing with, the public will rightly crucify us. Our only comfort is that perhaps even in the media, NGOs are no better. In fact, this House is still a "kind mother" for everyone else. I couldn't even believe that, for example, in some media severances could be 650 thousand kunas, $115 thousand to censor their texts, etc. But I won't do it. Or, for example, that NGOs have an annual budget level of 136 million kuna and all political parties in Croatia together about 80 to 90 million kuna, of which two-thirds of them wastes on HDZ or SDP and everything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73945	Comrade Cain, darkness.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73946	And Mr. Kramaric was talking about 1649, so he wasn't interrupted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73947	Of course not, he was warned. It was multiple.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73948	According to these examples, which you gentlemen instructed in 2005 was a quiet one, it was a boring, highly lazy year, an uninteresting year, and it was clear that in 2006 the party champions were building houses, buying apartments in Penthous on lofts, and when they showed little more entrepreneurial spirit. But the media also bought houses, apartments, cottages, and buildings, and let the country develop clearly according to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73949	Stick to the Commission's 2005 report.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73950	But let's get back to the report. Mr. President, I'm asking you to have a proper relationship with Mr. Kramarić at the very least.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73951	I warned him repeatedly that he was sticking to the subject and he was sticking to the subject, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73952	If you want to participate no problem, we'll be happy to listen to you. Just give us back the port. Now watch, gentlemen, why here is listed among other rectors, proctors, etc. contest to submit a report on their assets. They write laws on conflict of interest, thank them for that, they should be thanked for it, but here they are under obligation, no matter what Croatian officials are exempt. One word, that's not right. Thank them for the control of the officials, but then let the law as such be fully respected. Where are the gentlemen directors of major state-owned companies? A representative with 14-15 thousand kuna is an official, no cell phone, no kuna for representations, doesn't decide or decides what decisions he decides and the director of Croatian Railways who has 10 billion kuna is not an official. The director of INA with 30 billion kunas has that kind of money or is no longer an official. I am. HEP director with 15 thousand employees, 20 billion kunas of annual income, a billion kuna or two investments is not an official and you are, etc. Croatian Radio Television Director with a billion and 500 million kuna is not an official, we are. These are gentlemen absurd criteria. In the party that has an annual income of 3-4 million kunas are all thieves, in NGOs with 5-6 million kunas are all saints and do not forget that in this country there are over or almost 200 of these small municipalities that have no budget as many NGOs, etc. What am I talking about? I'm talking about strange criteria. The commission is absolutely necessary, even when it deals with, for example, absurd things, whether Mr Filipović is a parliamentary representative entitled to a cash prize when he is in the arena fighting for life and death. Well, it certainly does. And fortunately, we removed that absurd measure from the law. Or whether Mr. Lino Cervar has the right to the prize when Croatia wins the gold Olympic medal. Of course there is, and there should be an amen. And it would be good for other moral institutions that form a court of the public also to present their material or not to know what other opportunities. I think we should sit down, that we should also arrange the position of the Parliament and the position of officials and some of the other bodies that I accidentally mentioned because what we gentlemen have today is simply not good. It goes towards the Parliament, it is known that there are no sanctions here from the attack, and God forbid if there were, because it should be pursued so that someone else could simply "prove" their democracy, freedom, and so on, and so on. When you speak to the gentlemen of the committee, Mr. Leko should then speak in my court of law about names and last names and not as the Mayor of Varazdin, for example, when the whole public knows who it is, the Mayor of the County of Istria. Well, it's not in this material for 2005, it'll probably be for 2006 or the mayor of Zagreb, etc. I mean, we all have our own name and name, and then we should also name it. It's one false solidarity. I don't know what it can be called but for which we will be properly called. It is clear that we will vote for even though this turns out, according to this report, politics as "Holy Letter" is almost harmless. I said, it's going to be a lot more interesting for next or for this year 2006. But no matter what the citizens think, I really claim that this home is a "holy guide" for many individuals who judge us but who are clearly hitting on the home so that they may then do what they do. And that it's better to be an editor of maybe some list than the president of the state and that's true. And finally, this might be the first report. He certainly won't or it won't change anything. What's the weight of that? We're not kids. Let's not kid around, we know. There are no sanctions other than morals but, as everyone said, this report is one small step forward towards democratisation of opportunities in this country's space. Clearly, I am absolutely for the maximum surveillance of people in politics, clearly there is corruption, clearly there is nepotism, clearly there is a bribe. I'm a surveillance officer for each and every one of us. The fact is also that in 2006, it is not possible to do what was possible in '95. Or '96. And the fact is, how time goes by. The power of politics will be growing, and the impact of large capital and media will certainly be increasing or dominant. The commission, all those who said that, I agree, is not a court, but the commission is one moral court, but without concrete sanctions, it's all in vain again. Finally, once again, in 2005, there was a quiet one, it was an atypical year. 2006 will probably be more interesting. Finally, it's the period when elections are coming, whether it's shipbuilding, Barr, Actavis, I don't know how to buy weapons, constructions, purchases, sale houses, apartments, etc., matches, cards and the like. But for the end, we are surely at the club for maximum transparency, maximum openness, maximum honesty to the one who primarily sits in this body, i.e. in this Committee, by that logic and by the people who enter politics. What do you say? It must be clearly supported. But I said, this is a holy guide from what may really be happening within the structure of the Croatian society that decides, and I don't think as much of the Croatian Parliament as of these large public companies where billions and billions of kuna are turned on the annual level.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73953	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of Velimir Pleša.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73954	It is an incorrect quote from fellow Caine who said immediately at the beginning of his presentation. It's not the commission's job to deal with a viceroy marrying a mayor. And then in the end, he says it's a commission of moral judgment. Well, I think that's an incorrect claim. Because if the Committee had dealt with that fact a little bit, which it didn't at all, because only the President of the Committee as a parliamentary representative gave a statement in this sense that you would have talked about then it would have come to the knowledge that such a married bribe to her husband, the mayor had set up a job worth 250 thousand kuna. And about what...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73955	That's not what we're talking about right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73956	...of course you can see a conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73957	President of the Committee, the Honorable Representative, Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73958	My colleagues and colleagues, Your Honor. Well, I could say as president of the board, I'm happy with the debate. But colleagues and colleagues, to confront you with one fact that you agree with in most cases. A better assessment of the size of the problem we're discussing today could not have been said by anyone but Cain. In his public hearing, Cain says, there's no moral condemnation. There's nothing, there's no meaning in that moral conviction because there's no sanctions, no punishment. Does the MPs agree that the moral judgment in the Croatian court is ineffective, that it produces no consequences. If that's okay with you, the commission needs to be abolished. It doesn't make sense. Who are we talking to? In other words, relativisation of the problem can be done in various ways and ways of discussing the debate in this Croatian Parliament. If the Croatian Parliament can say that the examples and standards of European countries are not valid, that Croatian society does not need such examples, as is said, and I had the opportunity to listen to the representative of Finland on a round table that the minister had to resign because she received tickets through the link for a theatre performance. And you all remember that Sharping had to resign because he went to his wife on an official plane in Spain. Are we dealing with our situation? If we stay calm, then I call on the Commission that there is no point in working or suggesting to Parliament or the Croatian public that someone has entered and hurt the feelings of the citizens and their trust. If that's the case, we really got away from what's in the law and what we wanted when we passed the law. If he wants to change the law, there's a procedure. There's a procedure. The commission, members of the commission, are neither themselves nor the purpose nor the commission is their whim. We tried to build standards that we think can pass in Croatian society. And certainly, you will all agree that today cannot go unpunished, even with a moral condemnation of what could have happened before or in the 1990s in Croatian society. First of all, I must publicly say that the Committee is truly homogeneous. Although I think it would be better if because of the burden of members who are members of a particular party, it were better if the Commission hadn't drawn up in the way it was drawn up. At the same time, for the sake of the public, I have to make all the decisions, and all the opinions of the Committee have been reached unanimously. All the decisions, all the opinions the Commission made unanimously. When we talk about the moral weight of the Committee's decision, especially the moral weight of the evaluations and decisions of the Croatian Parliament as representative bodies of Croatian citizens, peoples. The perception of the public we are constantly talking about is extremely important, in the long term perhaps most important, or if it is referred to in public perception as an unbelief of an official, perhaps a crucial assessment not now of the importance for the current situation, but it is important to violate the rules of conflict of interest for the sake of trust in the institutions of society, and in particular trust in the institutions of the rule of law. If insensitivity to conflict of interest is most often linked to corruption is so negligible. Then building a rule of law is on an individual and then we can't even talk about the rule of law. It is certainly well known to all of you that without the trust of the citizens, you cannot get any duty but that citizens' trust is not only important when we are asked to vote for us. It is more important for the continued performance of the duties we have received from the citizens. Here's something of a problem we couldn't work out. Whether conflict of interest is defined in the law only when it comes to the own interest of officials or, in general, when in a certain way, it raises a narrow private interest. This is the position that the National Commission has taken. So any move, any action by officials outside the general interest can be a conflict of interest. Then we considered and took the general view that the related persons with the official are not only those taxed in the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, so relatives, tajba etc., or even friends, these are persons who are objectively linked to the interest in the conflict. The problem involves the official. Those who have read more carefully the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest know that matter is covered by officials in two articles. The first article taxed the duties of the commission and the "ex-lege", according to law, and they are required to present their property card to the public about their property and how they acquire property. But Article 21(3) of this law, which was passed by this Croatian Parliament, says: "All other officials in the Republic of Croatia must also take care of the conflict of interest related to Articles 3 to 6, 7 to 11." etc. Therefore, everyone must take care of the credibility of the entrusted duty and the integrity of the citizens. In the end, I will also ask some members of the special vice president to contact you after the debate. At the same time, I would like to say that in this ninth month as regards accommodation, the committee has received adequate room and technical equipment. So, the truth is, we have long demanded, searched and worked in inadequate conditions but I must honestly say that now, that the commission has now received the proper rooms and equipment. And as for the professional commission service, it's probably the task of a future commission. Unfortunately, it is probably under the influence or by the European Union's address that we will resolve this, but it would be better if we resolved the status of the commission ourselves because of our needs and expectations for citizens. I repeat that the commission has not only chosen itself, nor has the whim of members of the commission to be there and neither has the Law on conflict of interest brought the commission, but the Croatian Parliament is addressing the public by creating standards for the behaviour of officials in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73959	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73960	He didn't commend me, but he imputed something I didn't say at all, which often happens to some. I didn't mean to say it, but I'm gonna say it now. What did we want with the law? Apparently avoid... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73961	Not that, no. Mr. Cain, that's not a correction to an incorrect assumption. This has nothing to do with an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73962	... Amoral behavior should be sanctioned. [[You can't hear the speaker, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73963	Thank you very much. It's a finding. Honorable representative Ivo Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73964	What's the point?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73965	My colleague Leko, speaking in the context of morality and moral condemnation of an individual, said the following, I hope I wrote well "If the law is not necessary then there is a procedure to change it.". Well, this law should change immediately, and that is your inaccuracy, because it absolutely does not answer fundamental questions, and I will explain in what context I am correcting your inaccuracies. Let's take the mayor of Zagreb Milan Bandic. Look what happened to him about buying his apartment. It's for every conviction. The man was first convicted and then set off for pre-examination. It reminds me of those golden communist times and their communist hickeys when it was "You have a house, you get your apartment back.". Well, that's inadmissible.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73966	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. ... I am, of course not, so you're not listening. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73967	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to commend this brief report that I called the sad novel with the key because there are no names or last names in it, there are no phenomena and we would like to make a transparent public debate on conflict of interest. There, in fact, my colleague Kapraljevic, the first chief of the commission, found that political will is decisive for the work of the commission. I personally believe that the decisive political or cultural climate is, and unfortunately, it is very unfavourable in Croatia. I'll tell you about last year because we've been discussing it for thirty years before, Antun Soljan wrote a wonderful essay on questions called "The Scary Face of Nothingness" where he found out about the following, that the best were deprived of any hope and that they were the worst filled with hot passions. If you are watching what is happening today in Croatia and what will be the public reception of this report then you must only open the newspaper and the opening of the newspaper assumes an anecdote that is ten years old. I'm a well-known sociologist... Ericson's colleague, Ivo Banca, invited me ten years ago to give a lecture on the structure of good and evil in wars in the former Yugoslavia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He's the son of the founder of modern psychology and there were about a hundred and fifty young people lying on the floor. And I asked them where they wanted to go, heaven or hell. About 70% said they wanted to go to heaven and 30% to hell. But I said if you go to heaven there's only one snake, one apple, probably genetically modified, one woman, there's so much boredom. If you come to hell, you will find Caesar and Napoleon and Hitler. Please don't interrupt me! [[And another Tito.]] Both Mladic and Karadzic and all those criminals, and then I tested the children and about 10% changed their conviction. If you see what the public reception today looks like and what the Croatian media is doing in relation to the topic you are discussing in today's "Tomorrow List" the big title of one of the prominent columnists Cacic -... Napoleon, who last year was unquestionably found to have, is a reasonable doubt not only that he was in conflict of interest but that he committed serious crimes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If you look at only the paper, two leading weeks in the last two days, there's a weekly I won't advertise it, which published on the full 6 pages one big topic about staying people who are being tried as if they were to kidnap General Zagorec's son. The announcement of this text on these 6 pages reads as follows:
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73968	Even though it's interesting, stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73969	I'm holding on to my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73970	Yeah. 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73971	Boris Banovic, Croatia's strongest fashion critic known as the fashion guru, comments on remaining actors at the trial of Hrvoja Petrac for the abduction of General Zagorec's son, where they have spontaneously presented the show of departments and purses and watches both the defendants and the witnesses have shown top-notch direction in fashion trends. He's still saying. Best-dressed Hrvoje Petrac with combination of Armani's anthracite departments and maps with a puppy...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73972	Let's go! Let's go, let's go, let's go, Let's get out of Armani, let's get out of fashion. Let's go!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73973	A colleague! If you don't allow theory to enter this High House, then I'm ashamed. I'll interrupt the debate, but don't put me in such a position.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73974	Let's stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73975	He goes on to say with a photo of his son Novice, he writes like this: from head to toe in jeans like Ralph Lauren. If you have one situation where criminal miles are transformed into top-of-the-line stars, role models, pleasant life, if on that side you have a fleet worth a few dozen million euros, if you have in robbed gems, into gold, in secret accounts hundreds of millions of euros, then look on the other side, what our investigation committee looks like, or the Commission to prevent conflicts of interest or what our State's Attorney's office looks like. I often go there and find Mr. Lazo Pajic, my favorite hero. He seemed actually like Fres Astaire at an old age. He has a 15-year-old Vortex suit, maimed "Planika" shoes, and this man should haunt organised criminals in Croatia. He's completely depressed. Everything people try to prove to him. And now to get back to one situation that is very picturesque and please be focused. We've all been walking and going through one of the Zagreb bridges for months. I'm watching, there's a house growing there. The house grew up and a few days ago a big sign appeared down there, says Agram. I was first cultured, it's in the extension of Nuci's horseshoe, the building is being built, and I'm going to see what it's about, who owns the land, who gave him the land, why he gave him the land. I found that the land was given to one of my college colleagues whom I would not mention the name, which was an extremely decent man, published in the world’s leading magazines in... For example. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The most gifted Croatian scientist, however, evil got into him. He reported to the city that he was going to work there in an artificial tissue factory, which he resold in a similar way as Mr. Srecko Ferenčak and Pero Turkovic, to Agram and destroyed the cultural identity of this city. Therefore, when we speak, in this country...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73976	Let's go! Let's go, let's go, let's go,
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73977	You can't have a colleague named Vladimir Shakespeare...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73978	Let's go! Let's go, let's go, let's go, Please stick to the subject. I'm warning you, don't. You're in. What are you talking about now, Agent Ferenchek?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73979	Because it's not...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73980	You can't do that because it's not a theme in 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73981	That's quite the theme of my colleague, because I've talked to a man a dozen times. He honestly doesn't realize that he's done something dishonest and criminal. He doesn't know that evil got into him. I talked to him. Even Mladen Bajic convinced me that he talked too. He doesn't think it's getting from the city to build a home for the disabled, for the blind kids, and to resell "Conzum" that it's something suspicious. And if you think it's not the subject of this debate, there are children...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73982	Thank you very much. Enough! Please sit down. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Jozo Radoš. ... Order! [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Order! Leave yourselves...... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73983	You should be ashamed of yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73984	Order! ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73985	Shame on you! ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73986	Order! For misbehaving of warnings to the Glorious Flight. Here's your colleague, Radosh. ... Come on out! [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73987	A representative of Letica said that the investigation committee undoubtedly found that Mr Cacic was not only in conflict of interest but also found that he committed crimes. The investigation committee of the Croatian Parliament cannot determine that anyone has committed crimes, especially not irrefutable and has also made no unanimous decision that he was in conflict of interest. What the investigative committee did was a political verdict to the political rival.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73988	Replica, Honored Representative Zlatko Kramarić. He's giving up! Thank you. Dear Representative Jozo Radoš, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73989	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! The work of this committee which was founded with unnecessary difficulties and which has actually worked only 3 years with great difficulties at first is a drop in the sea which should be the activities of the Croatian Parliament or the entire society in the fight against corruption but despite the fact that it is a drop in the sea its work can have a long-term very positive effect on the fight against corruption because it is trying to fight corruption at the highest level, where there is probably one part of the cause and root of corrupt behaviour in the whole society. And therefore, on my own behalf, I will support this report and I must point out that I absolutely do not understand that the commission has had such difficulties in its work. First of all, these political difficulties, parties etc., which I can understand in some way but I find it difficult to understand that the commission had difficulty working within 20 square meters and that, for example, for the realization of the commission decision of one of the very important decisions that the property of the officials was publicly announced, that the professional service of the Croatian Parliament took a full year to realize this important decision of the Commission. It's something that's certainly not good. I'm glad that colleague Leko, president of the commission, said that in September of this year, the commission had finally received adequate space. But there's still a lot left to do so that the Commission can really play some significant role of its own. The problem, of course, is that even the subject matter of the commission is not properly defined. In fact, what is a conflict of interest? Every man is at any moment in some conflict of interest to himself, especially in the conflict of interest of every official. What should be the subject of this commission's work? This is the moment when this commission should appear when it comes to the highlighted danger of private interest and public interest. And when that conflict is resolved so that it pleases a lower interest, and that's a private interest, then it's no longer a conflict of interest, it's a crime. Therefore, the Commission could react, should react at that stage when there is an indication of the highlighted danger of a conflict of lower private or higher public interest. And all of what the Commission has found here as a conflict of interest, these are crimes sanctioned by our laws. If someone buys you a ticket to London and pays you a stay in London, and by our law a gift which an official can receive is maximum of 500 kuna then it is no longer a conflict of interest, it is an illegal act. And in this sense, of course, I support what the report is saying is that we should define more precisely what is the subject of the Commission's work and, of course, make it possible for the Committee to really do what it really should do in its work. Because we've had some caricature effects in the commission's work in recent years. So the property of officials over the past years has been viewed in terms of who has what, and the ridicule of someone if there is nothing, or one who does not, and it has not been seen whether someone has acquired their property in a way that is in accordance with the law. So it was mostly peeking at other people's property, over somebody else's board. But in particular, it is a funny dimension when representatives and officials who gain the circumstances of their private relations, etc. were ridiculed. They had nothing that had absolutely nothing to do with what the intensity of this commission's work was. And this commission has been there for three years, there are very diverse experiences in the work of committees like this. For example, in Scotland, if you go fishing in an organisation of someone's moment you have to report to the Commission for a decision on a conflict of interest to see if it would be behind this gift, if this gift is an opportunity to abuse your public duty. We are, of course, a long way from it, but the path we're going, even if it's only the first step is right and in that sense we need to support this commission's work. But these, these aspects of work, this cartoon that appeared at one point regarding the perception of the commission's work also seems inevitable to me. However, animation is important to engage the public in monitoring what officials do. So if we may establish a proper monitoring of the work and behaviour of officials, we will probably be able to establish or it will be the way to control the action and legal behaviour of all citizens of this country. When it comes to property, you have officials who have declared property, visible property that is greater than anything they and their spouses could have gained in life without eating, drinking, or traveling, or dressing. And neither this commission nor the other government bodies, so the State's Attorney's office are capable of sanctioning such cases. You have an official who, after they stopped being officials, who fell under one or some other laws, hastily opened some big business with large initial capital that appeared as donors, as benefactors, and never in their lives, except that they were employees or officials had no great inheritance because before that they lived in apartments of 50 square meters and didn't run any big jobs. So that we could have this great fortune on the basis of it. And the almost painted corruption of our society including, of course, this commission is unable to process. If we were able to do so, then the next day, we could bring every citizen into the focus of both the public and the law and the judicial authorities that no one in this country can have 3 times more or 5 times as much as what he has acquired, from his declared remarks. And that should be the ultimate goal of this commission's work. So despite everything I've said about the difficulties of the Commission's work, I think that this is a good way to support the work of the Commission, expecting, of course, that the next reports of the Commission and the work of the Commission in the coming years will be much better, because we are finally over these children's diseases of political conflicts, the inadequate material conditions of the Commission's work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73990	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Franjo Arabovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73991	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'd like to replicate to Mr. Radosh when he announced at the beginning of his presentation that there was difficulty in forming the Commission's work. ... in that right. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There were difficulties because our property cards in most of the media that we suggested in this High House and the Committee were ridicule. Then it was even publishing to anyone who lived and the phone number. So it's completely diluted in the beginning so we know I don't even know who's registered, who's not, what is. Well, in the end, there was some kind of life horoscope even. It went so low that people would just walk into our privacy. I've never seen anything move, except what Mr. Leco said except for those rooms to start working. And you said one very important thing. You mentioned fishing, that it must be reported in some countries that if it goes fishing. And what will we report if a prominent official in the Republic of Croatia is flying on a private yacht, and this owner of that yacht has won a very high quality country in the City of Zagreb. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73992	Replication response, distinguished representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73993	So, I agree with you that it was something that was absolutely against the fundamental intensity of the Commission's work, such treatment of the property of the officials because it is not a problem if a man is rich, if he has acquired his property by his work and in a legitimate way. That's not the problem. An official in the Republic of Croatia with limited incomes today can live politely, more or less politely, but cannot be rich. A man who is a God-indicator of corrupt behavior and our bodies, not this Committee, cannot be expected from him, especially at this stage, but the State's Attorney's Office is not able to sanction it either. As for someone showing up and flying on other people's yachts and that, of course, points to corrupt behavior, but then we should have the same... to everyone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It should not be seen when a member of a party is flying, and members of his party should be ignored if they are flying. It's the wrong way.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73994	Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73995	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will, of course, support this report in the vote not only because of what the document says but simply in the desire and attempt to support the efforts that the Committee has worked so far, but also in the desire that the Institute of Conflict of Interest as something one newspaper in Croatia develops that we are promoting it and that in five, six years we can talk about that segment we have created a system outside of the judicial system that will be able to monitor, advise, prevent, monitor, but also sanction those who sin in the rules of the game. In today's debate, several colleagues were angry with the media and journalists that they had made cartoons out of conflicts of interest and work by the Commission. Unfortunately, the debate in this House so far will again give them the right to do cartoons out of this debate because instead of conflicts of interest, the law and the Commission dealt with everything but that. Why do we have a report for 2005? Because this first meeting of the Committee after all obstructions and technical problems, and when it was somewhat resolved, there was a boycott in the work of the Committee of certain members, and it just fell apart, and we had to go to a new choice. What does the Commission, apart from what they recorded in their work for the past year, say and indicate? It warns us that the existing provisions of the law in some parts are not good enough, clear and accurate to make their work more effective, so that the citizens of Croatia have greater confidence in the find and final opinion of the Commission and that citizens have greater confidence in this Assembly, but also in all state officials that this commission can be one of the defenses and corruption and illegal behaviours and entering conflict of interest. The first thing the Committee suggests to us, where it tells us that something, and we passed that law, and we chose those members of the Committee. So, the first thing tells us is that part of the law of the provisions that speak about the scope of the officials covered by this law must also be carefully reconsidered by those provisions that speak about how to acquire the property of officials. In other words, the Committee tells us that even the provisions of the laws on sanctions are not clear enough, are not applicable enough in all cases, and that the issue of sanctions in the existing law has not been resolved properly. The third thing, where the Commission points out to us that both the intention and purpose of this commission, other than giving views and opinions and identifying, should also propose political responsibility for those who have been found to have a conflict of interest, including the proposals for impeachment by both state and local officials. So they told us these three things because when we appointed them to the Committee, we gave them the law and told them to go ahead and do it. After a year they came and said these three things weren't good. The acceptance and voting of this report we also accept these three notes, these three warnings, and then we stop at that. No, I don't. I propose that parliamentary committees, especially the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, and perhaps the Legislative Committee by the end of the year make one thematic debate only at this point, only for this Act, together with the Committee, and that early next year we come to Parliament with either a new or an updated law, fix what is not good, so now that we know what is not good, waiting for no resources, no new establishment of the Parliament, no new calling committee, we allow them to work better or... Two more questions that may need to be considered in the amendments to the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] First, it refers to that part of the Commission's right not to wait for the application of anonymous or signed at its own discretion and to puts everything that comes to them either through the media or in another way to know that the procedural actions in such cases are more clearly specified, and not that, as the State's Attorney's Office often says, there are no applications. Another topic, and today it was already mentioned, and in professional circles it was often mentioned whether the composition of the Committee, the structure of the Committee was most happily chosen. Some believe that in their work, or membership of that commission should not or should not be parliamentary representatives. So if we have this warning now and if there are different opinions in Croatia on the subject then we are in charge, then we are responsible and obliged and that part of the law to consider, perhaps at first it was a good solution, perhaps otherwise then we didn't even know how to regulate, but now there is obviously a need and that part of the law to consider and to structure the Committee in that part differently. If, therefore, we ourselves do not make these shifts in the legislative solution, if we stop the warnings that the Commission is giving us, then we will be the only and most responsible that, in the 2006 report, we will find, unfortunately, that the powers, working conditions, legal provisions are not clear enough that we have not done much in improving the institute of conflict of interest sanctions on measures and warnings. I want to believe that there will be enough wisdom and political will and that this is not a topic of inter-party competition because we have promised citizens of this country that, in addition to criminal law, criminal law and through the institution of conflict of interest, we will do everything we can to make sure that those who have gained trust and have come to public functions are not able and should be allowed to determine and put their private interests above the public. For this reason, I will vote in favour of this report and therefore, as a member of the Committee on the Constitution, I will push for this debate by the end of the year, to hear the other opinions of the members of the Commission and to prepare the amendments to the law together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73996	Thank you. Replicated representative Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73997	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Very constructive exposure, sir. But there's one problem, you've just said that some people want not to be parliamentary representatives on these committees, that in the Committee on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests they're not parliamentary representatives, as if I would understand it, and the parliamentary representatives there, they'll agree, they'll cover each other, so you'll transfer it to NGOs and let them do it. Well, please, sir. So, we're going to say now, we Parliamentarians, we're not able to decide about ourselves, we're going to give it to NGOs, so the NGOs with whom they're in cahoots I don't know, and then they're going to crucify Franjo Arabovic, Dragutin Lesara or the oxy person. We are going to make a decision by the commission Franjo Arabovic is in conflict of interest. I guarantee you that my party would kick me out of this High House and relieve all functions. Here's an example of Sibenik, let's do it. So, let's get the members out of the party immediately who are in conflict of interest. But no, let's do some compromises. And that's the only solution. And what you're going to transfer from this High House to NGOs we know well how they live and who they live from. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73998	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u73999	Comrade Arabovic, I did not say that I felt that the fact that parliamentary representatives and members of the commission were not good. I said that in today's debate several of them but also in Croatian media, several experts have shown. I didn't say my position on the subject, so I don't want you to do it with someone else and not with me. That's the first one. Secondly, whether that part of the law should be changed. You have one opinion, I have another, someone else, but in order to find out by the end, then we need to open a debate on the law. Secondly, I didn't say we should give it to NGOs instead. You know, I see these NGOs as a significant segment of civil society are constantly bothering you, I don't know why. But I wasn't talking about NGOs, and it wasn't. ... Well, I don't know, I didn't know you were a psychiatrist to know what I was thinking and not what I was saying. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I thought you were a basketball player, not a psychiatrist.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u74000	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u74001	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! I think, looking at this report, I must first conclude that it is only possible for us that we are the legal institute to prevent conflicts of interest essentially led to absurdity. We've totally led him to absurdity and the continuation of this absurdity is also the fact that the commission that has the power, in fact, has no authority but is doing something, and the question can't even work normally when there's no legal basis. Not even these five cases that the whole public knows about have the power of the commission and come up with a name and name. And then today we spend all day discussing how we here have to stand up for the greater good. And that is true, in indirect democracy, the people chose us, their sovereignty gave us to represent the general good, 16 to 18 thousand each of us representing Croatian voters in the Croatian Parliament. And then we'd get a report where there were five cases and they didn't even give the names of those five cases. So what can we discuss today at all? Mr. President, what can we discuss today? About a report where there are five cases and there are no names of those five cases. Whatever we want to discuss in terms of the problem is the cause and the reason is that we will not or have no will, unlike us from the Croatian Party Club of Rights that we proposed in 2002, let's gather the will and strength to pass the law on the right to prevent conflicts of interest and then we will be able to have the right results. If, first of all, the case of Mr Letica, who wanted to point out the problem of conflict of interest in the city of Zagreb, he was not allowed to speak and the commission, for example, is not available. Such cases exist far more in the Croatian public, in many cities and municipalities and at the state level but unfortunately the commission did not consider these cases. Why not consider, no such cases publicly did not, anonymously or publicly, and could not be debated. The commission, however, does not have the power to discuss and decide on official duty to follow that part. So let's not fool ourselves, let's not fool the Croatian public. We have the legal institute of conflict of interest in Croatia led to total absurdity, that we only have it on paper. We have a commission that's done a lot about the legal authority and it's done something but it's still done itself a bear service that hasn't publicly appointed these five cases, and that's another proof that we have to change the law. If we don't change the law means that variant we offered in 2002 where we used experience means countries that developed a legal institute like Sweden, such as Canada, such as the United States of America, Germany, where the situation is quite clear. If an official abuses his position and drives an official car to do so has no right, we have nothing to think about automatically, he must resign. This is the variant when the official determines the commission that he has come to conflict of interest as such. And why did he come into conflict of interest? Let's get back to democracy. So, in Europe, there is indirect democracy in the countries of Anglo-Saxon, right? If it is indirect then it is certainly from us and the official because he represents the interests of the people to protect the common good. If this official, meaning he automatically deceived the people who gave him authority, not the general good, but the protection of his individual well-being, protecting someone from his family, or favoring, say, different lobbys, he is automatically as soon as the commission determines such a case he must resign. Let's get the order in. We remember the case in Canada that in Canada it's impossible to perform a duty if there's private property, stock and everything else. The Prime Minister of Canada case. To become prime minister, he had to sell everything. After that, he lost the election and ended up a social case. But anything is possible with us. ... He let people invest, they didn't invest well. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, I'm saying, but that's the situation. But we, that's the case. But we have to say, we're talking about cases, look. Mr. President, so leave it alone. I'm talking about cases and experiences out there as they happen. I'm not saying it's like that. Politics, the duty of state and bussiness cannot go together until we give the answer to this question we will have these reports that no one will know anything, that they will not even know the names of those five cases that do not deserve special attention and that all other things remain in the domain of doubt or speculation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u74002	Replica, the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u74003	Dear colleague Kovacevic! I would publicly thank you for defending my freedom of speech and especially the president of our Parliament because he could remain the impression that he interrupted me because I even wanted to talk about the way the hoistupler dressed capo... in Croatia who called the president of our government a stink. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u74004	Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u74005	Thank you, Mr. President! Well, colleague Pero has well claimed that this law on conflict of interest with such sanctions as are provided for there is quite absurd, because there's the greatest sanction there is that sanction when someone sits on the payroll for 3 months with 3 thousand kunas that in some kind of conflict of interest, they constrain far more money actually represents nothing. The problem is how citizens react to the name and name of those who have been in conflict of interest. Citizens in the election should not possibly vote for it. Let me just say what it was like when a conflict of interest was passed in Bosnia. Normally, we know how laws were passed with them. Of the 5,000 officials covered by the law, 2,000 500 to 3,000 resigned immediately because they recognised themselves to be in conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u74006	Replica response, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u74007	Well, Your Honor, Mr. Capralevich, look! The Institute of Conflict of Interest has been introduced precisely because of the fact that the voice of the public, so that citizens can react sooner to the fact that the person they have chosen abuses of their choice does not care about the general interest but rather leads to their individual interest. And that's why the Institute of Conflict of Interest was introduced so it wouldn't wait four years, because when the vermin starts, it never ends and 4 years is a lot to wait for. This is why it has been introduced everywhere and in this way that I have talked about and in the way that the Croatian party club has proposed to react immediately and without waiting for the elections and that it has to be removed from its duties as in Sweden and Germany and Spain, Canada, the United States and elsewhere if it is determined that it is individual, logistic interests or something similar to those of general interest and abuse it is their right to decide instead. The citizens didn't choose him because of it, they chose him quite differently. That's what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u74008	Dear Representative Ivo Josipovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u74009	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I would like to point out that the start of our commission and the adoption of the law is, of course, a big step for the culture of political life in the Republic of Croatia, and I would personally give recognition to the members of the commission because it is quite certain that, in the beginnings of work with certain even I would say the political and media circumstances that the governments have certainly not been easy to do. The problems identified by the commission are such that this Assembly should take them seriously and in some way react to the necessary changes to the law. I personally read a few important problems from this report that are not only a problem for the Commission but also a problem for all of us. In fact, I think that the existing state of legislation and the existing definition of conflict of interest and everything that follows behind, therefore the consequences, sanctions, the way to decide on it is such that we have come halfway between two concepts. Whether conflict of interest is a moral category related to politics or is a criminal category, I do not mean in terms of the Penal Code but in terms of certain repressive measures. So, if it's just a moral, ethical category, then I think it's necessary to adapt both the procedure and the kind of sanctions that can be imposed to the extent that, in my court, they can only be political in nature. It is also likely that in such a system of justice there is nothing to do in the very control of it. However, if this is a criminal nature, then I think these mechanisms should be drawn up differently and consistently implement and judicial control of the Commission's decisions. Furthermore, I think that in public, and who among all of us has raised an interesting question, which is what is actually a conflict of interest? The conflict of interest in my court must have a rational basis. So in each individual case, the commission when we decide, when we judge independently of the commission, we would have to detect what private interest it is in conflict with the public interest, therefore flat-rate. In some ways, labeling something is or something is not a conflict of interest, and I don't think it's a good way to go, and I think that the detection of concrete interest that is potentially in conflict, so it doesn't have to exist, but the potentially public perception is very important to trust in the work of every body that decides on conflict of interest. With that in mind, there was a little bit of a public attitude that I think is wrong and leads the wrong way. It's not a problem, at least I think it's how the official makes some income. It is important whether the income has been achieved in a situation that objectively is a conflict of certain, private and public interest. And I think that this is the main key and the main test that would have to be carried out at any time, in any case, in order to be measured and relevant to whether or not there is a conflict of interest. Furthermore, as a problem I am reading both from the report and from some personal considerations, did the list of officials well identify where the potentials of conflict of interest are? Yeah. All these officials who are no doubt numbered are in a circle of people who should, say, keep an eye on it. However, I think that some times in the public and perhaps in the practice of some bodies that report or which are around the problem of conflict of interest find things wrong. So here I think if each of us were to ask ourselves here I want to be corrupt in some way that I can offer to be corrupt many of us would say I have nothing to offer the other side, objectively there are no special members of the opposition, there's nothing to offer. If I were to make a joke, I could profit more from selling college exams than from my representative office in the Parliament. What do I mean? With this I mean that the law has not recognised some places, jobs, some functions that, in practice and potentially, lead to corruption and conflict of interest, perhaps much more than some places that are formally more ranked. Let us remember the issue of building permits, locations, loans, business with public enterprises, etc. Of course, there is always, if we say look and we should cover it, and I personally think that we should embrace it and that in some way we will locate the real and the big maybe, even the criminal actions, whether this can all be done by our Committee. I'm sure he can't. And personally, I believe that the committees, that this commission should have one particular supervisory, global function by law, and that the Committees of Conflict of Interest should exist locally. Whether there's a county or someone else we should talk about, of course. I also think that the criteria of conflict of interest cannot be equal for everyone and are not equal for everyone. It's precisely this corrupt potential that different places in the hierarchy are carrying. Certainly, it is not equally subject to conflict of interest and potential corruption by someone who is the head of an executive or a member of the executive authority of someone who sits in a county congregation. There is absolutely that difference, and I think that when a conflict of interest of government members is judged, it should be much more stringent than when it comes to a member of another body. So, personally, I would like the next report to conclude that there have been some changes to the law, and that is how this changes in some way. I also think about the members of the judiciary, the State's Attorney's Office. I think their way of reporting property and all of it has to be the same as all of us. Because I think the potential of conflict of interest that exists in them is even greater than it is in the case of, say, MPs in the Parliament. I think that, in any case, special attention must be paid to what the Committee said about working conditions. Any body that wants to be independent, which in some way wants to and achieve its authority must have adequate conditions to work on financing the service of space and everything else. I hope this House finds opportunities and strength to give the Committee such a gift. It is important that the Committee, including this Parliament, works on the education of officials and the public, so if we want the members of the Committee themselves about what this conflict of interest is and what it is not. We've heard about some examples from abroad. I'm not sure that sometimes we do not take out some fickles in part and put them as rules. Take, for example, a German law and practice. It's a democratically civilized country. We see how they do it, we'll certainly learn something. And maybe the last one. I think it's a serious problem for which everyone is in some way guilty, a certain estheradisation of issues of conflict of interest. There has already been more debate on how data from property cards are used for a purpose that is not preventing conflicts of interest. The conflict of interest, property cards exist to compare assets at the beginning of the mandate and eventually to see if the official has profited. If he is who he may have obtained an inheritance, he may have had some legitimate income, about that later. But there's a certain kind of surveillance to be done here. And unfortunately, in some media, I think it goes beyond purpose and that it should also be seen that these things are avoided. As soon as it looks, at least this way when I look at the situation that and maybe that's why some officials have certain reserves according to and reporting and declaring property which is, of course, wrong. But here, people are people and there are certain problems. To finish, I think the commission was doing a valuable job. I once again congratulate the members of the Committee and hope that the Commission will further justify those hopes that we, and I think the general public in Croatia, are putting into the work of such a body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u74010	Thank you. Replica, a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u74011	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think you've detected the right thing. When you highlighted in your discussion the problem of detecting exactly the neural points of conflict of interest, of course with the difference between the purely conflict of interest itself and the possible crimes of a criminal-legal nature. However, whether in our society and among all institutions there is even a serious will to do so. That is, to the fullest extent possible. When? The basic Act on Access to Information, which is the basic law in the prevention of corruption, is cut down because the basic law is in general in the control of the transparency of the public authority when many respond and the competent authorities who should also sanction its application when it is said to be, cannot apply this law because it stands, because it prevents the provisions of the Data Protection Act. And this is the main law. He has to apply himself in every way. Because it's about public officials. As soon as someone is running for a public office, there is no more protection of such data, but everyone has the right to say something about that person, and then public authorities can control whether it is in conflict of interest, in what kind of family and other relationship it is with that person. So it's already a clean obstruction of exactly what we're talking about today and just as much as it is, and what's especially visible in the field of local public authorities when public procurement law is also one fundamental law in the prevention of corruption and in the detection of corruption is suspended by the competent authorities saying that it has no application, because it's about the specific application of the Law on Local Self-Government. So what are we talking about?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u74012	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u74013	And when he says it in his explanation
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u74014	Okay. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u74015	Well, a colleague of Josipovic's is... asks whether conflict of interest is a moral or legal category. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] The real answer is that it is neither, it is one real situation in which each individual can be found if his private interest is in conflict with the public interest. So if he comes to you for an exam or my son, or your daughter, you are objectively in conflict of interest. The trouble in Croatia is that laws force people to, to be constantly in latent conflicts of interest. You have Ivan Chehok, who must be a responsible state official. When he's mayor and when Ivo Loncar shows up, he celebrates that moment because he shows up. Therefore, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, all state officials are forbidden to be on the boards of public firms, and that is what Kapraljevic was talking about, such a solution had to be in Croatia. We are legally forced to find ourselves practically in conflicts of interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u74016	Replica response, respected representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u74017	So here's the principle Professor Letica was saying I agree, but... You got it all wrong. [[Because of the announcement the speaker does not understand.]] I've been considering whether conflict of interest is just a moral or criminal category. I think there's a certain difference there, so maybe we can continue the conversation with coffee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u74018	And distinguished representative Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u74019	Thank you, Mr. President. Although I can agree with most of what my colleague Josipovic said, I could not agree with one detail he said, which is that in some ways, officials in the government should be more closely observed than those in the county council or city council, etc. I couldn't agree with that. Why? Because we need the same criteria at all levels, because then we won't be in doubt about what the conflict of interest is. Because in case we have different criteria according to different levels, we would really bring in one confusion, and I personally think that you were right when you said that you should extend the list of officials, because many of them, as already said here, receive and have higher incomes, can receive as a member of the supervisory boards of fees. So they have various benefits and certainly that this round of officials should be included by this law, but it should not be forgotten in particular in this case by the County Assembly of City Councils that many decisions are made at these levels, and it should not be forgotten how many budgets these levels are. Here's from the City of Zagreb where 6 billion kuna is, but if we were to add up all the public enterprises then we'd come up with a much larger amount and it could be combined with the state budget. So there must be no difference in levels, the criteria must be the same so that they all are clearly in fact what is really a conflict of interest, it needs to be clearly defined.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u74020	Replica response, respected representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u74021	Here's an answer that would explain a little bit why I think I'm staying at my point of view. I agree that a lot of money can be in play here and there. However, you know the responsibilities and potentially what can be done badly by a person in position a) and b) is different. So here's a very banal example. It's acceptable for me that a member of the county assembly has a place, a shop, but that doesn't mean that he can't be in conflict of interest when the county assembly decides on it, but I find it completely unimaginable that the local and the confectionery have a Prime Minister, for example. or the Minister of Economy. I see the difference in that, and I think that from that aspect, we need to distinguish the pyramid and even some kind of operational function that the individual performs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u74022	Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u74023	Thank you, Mr. President. So by reading this report, we see that there are actually only a few of these cases, and cases create normal and reports, they are created by a media presentation and publication, primarily media release, press pressure, and that commission must certainly be careful. Because here last year it was spinning in the news of a television house, saying business in the city from the city's head office was given to a cousin of the county councilman. So that went all the way and now imagine you if that's how it would work, if the applications came in that way I think the commission would have thousands and thousands of objects. And it's especially more complex in, say, small island municipalities where all relatives are, and it's hardly anyone with a bogeyman and a truck coming out of distant counties and remote cities. The fact is that business with municipalities, cities, counties and the state should not be carried out by officials and would surely be far easier. There's always a way to play the competition, direct contracts, we're witnesses, and I think that commission will have to be very careful. They will clearly need experts and expert assistance because perfidence never ends. Here are a few MPs I heard commendation that the law was created at the end of the term of office of the last government. I don't understand why at the end of the term. Perhaps then you would avoid, say, sanctions that the words "Europetrol" were the only ones who received INA derivatives at privileged prices, and the chairman of the Supervisory Board Mr. Slavko Linic that the former minister had set up jobs for himself and his companies more than 300 million kuna and remained mayor...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u74024	Please stick to the report, not the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u74025	Thank you. In the reports here too, i.e. in the discussions of colleagues Stazic and Rados, I did not recognize the regrets of colleagues Stazic and Radoš from the work of the former commission because for everything they then obstructed now they note that it is terrible, bad, etc. All I have to say is that it's not easy for the members of the committee to be safe. We're a small country, cousins live everywhere, last names too. I see the media is getting high, says the last name of this guy got a job, I don't know this guy gave it to him, and so on. But the advantage of a small country is to find out everything. So even people are convicted in advance of being guilty or not, but then it doesn't matter if it's the commission, this committee will confirm or disprove. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u74026	Replica, the esteemed representative of Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u74027	Thank you, Mr. President. I agree with my colleague completely when he said that officials should not be in business with the state. And I suggest that since you are in the ruling party, let your party initiate amendments to the law and put it into the law. Believe me, at our club we'll surely support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u74028	Replicate response, respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u74029	Well, dear colleague, I haven't noticed a bit of will on your part. Because instead of doing it clearly in your party, you are going from village to village with a man who has had the most such cases with the state and who has set up the most business since the time of Croatia's existence.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u74030	Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u74031	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm sorry, I didn't hear you produce me. Based on this report, I spoke on behalf of the club, but I'd like to tell a different story in my name. I expected in this report that the Commission would launch not only in the report but also in its activity in 2005 and now, to launch an initiative to change the law and to make those sanctions, regardless of whether it is a political, moral or criminal responsibility to launch that if it is a moral and political responsibility to take this political responsibility, then sanctions for this political responsibility would be far stronger and far more appropriate. Because what we have now in the Law is practically ridiculous and it simply represents nothing to any official who has found himself in a conflict of interest because here, a colleague of Arabovic says they questioned him and then would have expelled him from the party because he would have been in conflict of interest and we also have Mr. Bagaric who was in conflict of interest, so I call on him to get expelled from the party. ... They know who. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, here's to database control. In that database, I repeat, there are 146 officials, it was in that database that remained, there were 146 officials on the board and they wrote it for themselves. We don't know whether they're there legally or illegally because we don't know if those units of local self-government have made decisions that they, that these companies are of their public interest because they don't even exist in the report. What cities, which municipalities, which counties have written and made a list of their businesses of particular public interest. We've only got 210 companies of particular national interest where there's no "Liburnia," right. Where we asked to put "Liburnia" but it was left out. So we don't know how many of these officials are on the board of directors in conflict of interest, and in particular we don't know how many of them have received compensation for their work and were not allowed to receive it. There are also 176 officials who own a stake in companies larger than the legal size, and we also don't know if they transferred it to the law offices, whether they sold them there in the meantime, whether they changed any ownership stakes and burned it under that rank that they were allowed to do so. This commission has not written in its report, and it has been six months, and these officials have left the post and can practically no longer be done with them because after 6 months they no longer have any obligation, in fact, the commission has no jurisdiction over those officials. There are also 6 of those 6 officials who have written that they have been giving legal advice and are not allowed to do so. In fact, some wrote all the way there and received compensation for it, which is a classic conflict of interest. So, this entire group of officials has not been investigated even though they exist on the basis of reasonable doubt that they were or are still in conflict of interest. It's about control of the database. This also mentions the number of officials of a thousand 143 people. On the trail of this and what Josipovic was saying, the number of officials should be increased. Well, this is the number of officials, anyway, it's not final. Because when you Government fulfilled its obligation to write to it in the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Article 2(2), where it should establish a list of persons subject to designation and selection or confirmation, that list would be far, far greater. Because then the question arises what about all those who are, and are they persons in the rank of ministerial assistants who, for example, do not have such a name, but are, for example, a representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia before the European Court of Human Rights. Chief Foreign Inspector, Head of the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, Director of Diplomatic, Police, Judicial and Military Academy, Director of Research Institute, Development of Defence Systems, Director of the diplomatic protocol. And not to mention, I've got 70 of those out here that the government should deliver to the commission and say that she named them. It also sets out what to do with those appointed by the President of the Republic with those whom we appoint here in the Parliament. That means that the list that the commission now has is not right at all. A list of a thousand 143 people is not a real list anyway because we don't even know how many officials I have under our Law to prevent conflicts of interest. And as then, I agree that some should be extended, especially I agree that those officials who are in the executive power can far more favor themselves and themselves with connected persons than we do here in the Parliament. This is also proven by reports coming from the field, and that's a fact. However, to expand this list which is already huge and put it all on the back of the commission, it is impossible. It's just inexhaustible. Because only now that they're in the middle of this year when they started collecting property cards was 600 more people to be delivered, and they didn't deliver. It's all those who left at the end of their term. Because we know that there is a commitment at the beginning of the term of office, on the day of the important change and at the end of the term of office. I don't know, and I don't believe that all 610 officials who have completed their mandate, at the end of the term of office of local officials, have submitted their property cards. I'm sure he didn't. And then it's about that they were supposed to pick up a thousand, almost 2,000 property cards and insert it all into the computer. Believe me, with such a small number of people, with the 3 or 4 people they have there, for now, I hope there will be more of them, it's impossible to do. And the fourth thing that I expected would be in the report and that it would become far more potent is here in the debate, it's the public's work. I expected that they would finally start in that direction, that their sessions would be public, that their statements would be such as to contain a name and a last name, at least in a report like this that we're discussing today, where they should be written by the name and last name of who was in conflict of interest. Because like this, of course you know who he was, how he was and how he was known by the duties that are being performed. But I think if we don't go that way with transparency and if we don't tell the citizens what kind of people it is, I don't think their work will be properly evaluated. I hope that the next report they come with, that this next report will contain names and that this next report will probably include their database, which is already huge and in which the database has a lot of conflicts of interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u74032	Thank you. Replica, Honored Representative Pero Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u74033	Your Honor, Mr. President. Well, it's just teaching what counterpart Kapraljevic said if the conclusion of today's debate isn't that we have to change the Law to prevent conflicts of interest, then we haven't done anything today. The same situation will be the year when the report of the Commission is discussed, if it is not legally determined what we have already agreed today, as you have listed several cases, let's say if it is an official on the company's supervisory board or owned by a state or that the state is a minority owner. Well, of course he'll be in conflict of interest, that he'll work for that company, if the minister works, he'll create a space for her to work, if he's a secretary of state, he'll do the same. An automatic conflict of interest. What was done when it was said that the official had to transfer it to the attorney's office? Nothing's done. Nothing was done, though, because he only now has the cover that his firm can do even better, he will allow the company to get jobs and eventually have a cover, so I have nothing to say about it by the law firm, and whoever gets the proceeds from it is forgetting to say it. Let's say we had a case that I believe the moral director is now the new former POE, Mr. Karamark, who also had his own private firms and he told us on the board, it's, legally not according to our laws, it's in conflict of interest, and everywhere else it's in the world, he morally said that he would sell these companies. It's that part of morality that we have to make into the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u74034	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Antun Kapraljevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u74035	Thank you, Mr. President. So here I believe that we will come out of the debate with such conclusions and that we will try to fix everything that is not right under the law. I hope that we can reach a consensus in this, because their work would have to be based on our consensus, and I believe if we don't want to, there's a Big Brother, a Europe that's going to order it for us, and then we're going to accept it by hand. [[I'll be a rotten grandmother.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u74036	Dear Representative Pejo Trječević, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u74037	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, I agree with Mr Kapraljevic when he said about an official who should at the end of his duty report all his changes, so what he gained during the term of office, but there is a lack of this law and therefore should make amendments to this law itself so that sanctions can be imposed in some way because for this official who is leaving office and is not further officials there are no prescribed sanctions. It should be regulated by law that he somehow has political responsibility after the term of office that he does not have the right to be included further as an official. And another thing that I agree with is that in such reports, the names and last names of officials who are in conflict of interest are purely public because the public can get the wrong picture of it, because if only the duty of the official is listed here, then the public may think of the example of Požega-Slavon County in the report says that in the conflict of interest the Mayor of Požega-Slavon County, and I imagine the public will think that it is not Mr Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u74038	Replica response, respected representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u74039	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here you go, colleague Pejo, you've noticed it well, but no, in law there's their obligation to do it at the end of the term. There are sanctions. But those sanctions are inconclusive when they leave. He's no longer an official and what's worth to him is that you don't know how to call him a conflict of interest. It's no use. But believe me, it would be useful for the citizens to finally realize that those in conflict of interest should no longer be chosen. And then that would be enough sanctions because it's a political sanction, that's what my colleague Josipovic was saying, to the political situation he had made, a political response. And believe me, every politician is the worst when there's not enough round votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u74040	Honorable representative Maria Byte, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u74041	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I will support the Annual Report of the Commission on the conflict of interest for 2005 because since the law was passed, this is the first such report to the Croatian Parliament. The report is objective, quality and within the scope of the Commission's work over the past period overall. The commission in its work does not calculate when it comes to the truth and law enforcement. Let us remember that on 10 July 1998, the Croatian Parliament passed the Law on the Obligations and Rights of State officials who largely regulated the matter of conflict of interest in which an official whose interest in business, private or other activities might come into conflict with the public interest and the duty he is acting must be notified by the body that appointed him or her. A law on preventing conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties was passed in 7.10.1903, and amendments and additions in 2004 when the official is deleted the possibility that he may have 25% of the ownership stake in companies and, with the change of 2005, by which the official must inform the Commission of the sources and method of acquisition of assets. Under the law, conflict of interest is a situation where the private interests of officials are in conflict with public interests or where private interest affects or may affect the impartiality of officials in the exercise of public duty. Since Cicero, there has been a morally clear attitude towards a possible conflict of interest. He says, "Don't let them take it or give it when they seek power, neither when they have it, nor by its end, if anyone breaks any of it, let the punishment be in line with the guilt." And our law recognizes a taxing classic conflict of interest, including a gift of up to 500 kuna, but I wouldn't support it being a paraphrasing Balzac spider web caught in flies, and the bumblebees spring. The Commission's work must therefore be preventive, based on law and independent. The commission consists of seven members, four of whom were appointed from the Croatian Parliament's staff, and the other three are members of prominent public employees. Officials in the exercise of public duties must act with honor, fair, conscientiously, responsibly and within the framework of the Commission, with credibility. The Commission shall keep in its work cases and records, cases of officials, cases of conflict of interest, records of opinions and conclusions on the right positions, records of annual reports of the Commission, records of acts on staff matters, records of the rules implemented, records of other letters and records of submissions received and letters sent. The professional, administrative and technical tasks of the Committee shall be carried out by four civil servants and three advisers and one administrator, which shall be limited to the needs of the Commission. So far, the commission has collected a thousand 350 official reports, addressing all the difficulties it has encountered. The Commission's office received 130 submissions of which 63 were inherited from the first Commission's call, 75 submissions were related to the declaration of conflict of interest, and 45 submissions were requests to give an opinion which is very good and indicated that officials accept the work of the Commission. The conflict of interest and everything that can come from it can be a major socio-political and economic problem. All public opinion polls suggest that a large part of our citizens are precisely the problem of conflict of interest and corruption that we would have to deal with sharply and resolutely. I also believe that, under the Law on Conflict of Interest in the Republic of Croatia, there is enough political will for the Commission to work. In the Committee's work, it is necessary to stay away from the sensational approach, but the basis of the law is visible to each of the officials by name and last name and purpose of the Commission's work to expose the impact of politics and the economy and to prevent possible roots of corruption and to return the affected citizens to the authorities. As the greatest moral authority of the 20th century, John Paul II. During his second visit to the Republic of Croatia in Zagreb, he said: "Learn the difference between right and wrong, do not be superficial in judgment, your country expects you to make a significant contribution to areas of social life, economy, politics, culture. Its future will be better to the extent that each one of you is known to be busy improving himself." Finally, I agree with many colleagues who have said that this law should be completed, and therefore I accept this report as part of the existing law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u74042	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Pejo Trčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u74043	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Oh, well, colleague Maria Byte noticed that by law every official must report any change during the term of office. However, the question arises what if the official does not do so? Then what will the Commission do? The commission may make that change unless the official reports it unfortunately only after the term of office has expired, and after the term of office, the current official may probably be a former official and the former official will no longer have any authority. The problem is, then, whether the Commission can and in what way learn the change if the change is not reported by the official, or whether the Committee has to wait for someone who has not done so by law to report and show.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u74044	Replicate response, distinguished representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u74045	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I work very well with my colleague, Trajčević, in the Committee, and with the rest of my colleagues, we're not exactly as bad and irresponsible, but I also advocate to amend the law that other colleagues spoke about in the part where it does not cover the legal provisions that can be found in the Committee's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u74046	Final review, President of the Committee. We have the Vice President of the Committee, the Honorable Representative of Nikola Mak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u74047	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Zoran Petrovic, a member of the Committee who is present here. In this closing word, as is the order, I will not look back on the individual questions and dilemmas that have arisen, which have been very numerous in my court in a large part of very good and very useful and therefore will certainly be one of the support and guidance for the future work of the Commission, and also for this so-called amendment, the procedure of amending and supplementing the law itself. I'd like to say within the general impression that we're deciding, and we're not preventing it, but we're suggesting that public officials shouldn't behave. It's our basic intensities, and that's the essence of this report that's in front of you today. We thus indirectly participate in and contribute to building an ethical attitude, an ethical example of how people should behave, but not in this way to prevent it directly because we do not have those means, but to decide that through our decisions and officials and the public know how to behave in this respect when it comes to interest and then conflict of interest. We are neither a parliamentary body nor a government body, but we are the body of Croatia, so it is stipulated in the law and there are certain concerns in the public, false interpretation, says the Parliamentary Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests or I do not know anyone else. Therefore, we are exactly the legally defined body that acts independently, which acts on the basis of everything that counterpart Byte quoted from the law that members of the Committee should behave. So we're also no body, at least under the law that investigates the origin of the property. We've got some bad examples from our past, and we're not a body that's roughly sought out or driven by witches, nor are we a body that should cross the ingenuity of that, I mean, in practice, we're a body that crosses the powers that the law has determined. In that sense, he would only give a practical note because one official was mentioned. This official was the subject of a parliamentary investigative committee, not our Commission for Conflict of Interest, so there are no problems in the interpretation of this report. We are building one, by our work, by our law-based work, and it is visible from this report, we are building a democratic system on the ethics of public officials. When we make a decision and when we make it public and when the means of public communication are transferred it is then a democratic system of ethics that should rule in our society. Simply put about the honesty of public officials, and not to go into other people's jurisdiction, above all, not to persecute the criminal and someone else, and that we, both in our own composition and in our own way, have shown one human maturity in order not to run, not to enter some of the words of other domains, to take on someone else's roles and other functions. The Institute of Public Works was also often mentioned here. I claim it's the strongest sanction from this law and even from our work. This also shows the public's interest in our work and the technique of our communication with the public is such that after all the discussions, and the debates have been professional, working and session committees, when we take a position and you have heard that we have taken all our views unanimously over the past year, which is very important to stress in view of the balance of membership in the commission when it comes to lines of coalition composition and the lines of opposition. Then it is particularly important to highlight the unanimity of our decisions, and when we have made such decisions, then we call on representatives of the public in front of the eyes of all the members of the commission, we make them public and say that is our position. So, even in this way, in a qualified way, the right picture is created of what the Commission is doing and not what we unfortunately have, that the media as representatives of the public at the beginning of a case or misread or already condemn someone or already make someone responsible for what we are going to discuss in the commission. So when we end up then the public is in a very qualified way, in a very responsible way getting acquainted with our decisions. So it's one of the essential components of the important quality in the commission's work. I would also like to stress this opportunity that relations within the commission, this practice of our work shows a high level of responsibility for all of us to whom you have given the confidence to sit in this committee whether it is parliamentary representatives or whether it is outside members. And this number of sessions, one, the other and the third, indicates that we are trying and trying to do our job the most responsible way. There's been a lot of talk here about changes, amendments to the law. And this debate has shown an abundance of suggestions, concrete, quality that normally and members of the commission and parliamentary representatives and parliamentary bodies will take into account also in agreement with the leadership of the parliament, with the leadership of political parties to see how they translate into one concrete proposal to amend and supplement that law or to adopt a new law or otherwise. So we have heard today the abundance of certain proposals, more constructive than they were negative or just order for critical purposes. The terms of the work are spoken. I just wanted to point that out independently of 2005. In 2005, it was when we worked under very difficult conditions. At least now it's settled as far as space is concerned. As far as personnel are concerned, we are certainly not satisfied and if the commission is expected to do all that is said here today in this three-hour, more than a three-hour debate, then it will have to be a different team, and then we need to see if they are Parliament officials, whether they are government officials who are at our service or who are the people we choose, a valid commission assembly or in some other way come up with even better quality personnel solutions in order to then have that logistics support because we certainly cannot do 8 hours in the commission of professional work that someone who is qualified and qualified and qualified to be a quality service. As a matter of fact, I thank everyone in the debate, all the participants in the debate, and concrete questions and suggestions will certainly be the subject of our consideration especially in our working or professional committee sessions that we are systematicizing them and that we can see what we can translate into our daily practice and what is the subject of legal changes, changes and other ways when we talk about new legislation. On this occasion, I would also like to say, here he is not here in the hall of Mr Kapraljevic, our distinguished colleague, must say that this previous commission, regardless of all the contradictions that have followed, of all the positive and negative debates about their work, that this commission has paved our way, of this present composition, and that it has allowed us to do what you all here have commended as consistent, as concrete and as a quality report. And finally, given that I am from the ranks of the National Minority Club so as not to particularly report as a representative of the National Minority Club, I say that the National Minority Club supports this report. Thank you for your patience and attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-13-0.u74048	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. It will continue at 3 p.m. with a vote on the completion of the agenda, on the discussed and voted points and the continuation of the session is due to the large agenda and one to be included on the days 18, 19 and 20 of October when we will end or end the session and start the next session on 8 November until 15 December. So, it's 15 o'clock, the vote. Annual report by the Commission on the 2005 conflict of interest. I am voting on the following conclusion: The Annual Report of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest for 2005 is accepted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 75 votes in favour, 7 abstentions and 1 against the accepted proposed conclusion.
