ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71470	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. As part of all the reforms carried out by the Government, ladies and gentlemen, one of the key ones is the reform of the political electoral system, and as part of this reform, it is certainly also part of the establishment of a state electoral commission as a professional body of the non-partisan, independent which aims to be technically responsible for the conduct of elections in the Republic of Croatia. In order for the state election commission to be elected in this House, it is necessary to regulate its status, determine its salary for the president, vice-president and members and, therefore, we propose that the President, Vice-Presidents and members of the State Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia be appointed in the order of state officials. Furthermore, this Law also proposes the fixing of the wage coefficients. They are even with the President of the State Election Commission, with the chairman of the Assembly Committee, vice-president, with the Vice-President of the Committee, and members of the State Election Commission in salary, in the basic coefficient, as well as members of the Committee, of course, also have a representative supplement that members of the State Election Commission would not have. It is also important to apply the provision of this Act, under which paragraph 4 of Article 12 will not apply. Law on state officials, which is the right to add to the employment experience in the executive government. We believe that this provision is achieved according to our calculations to save some 13 million kuna, that this is a considerable amount of funds and that it is good to continue with this practice that public officials in the executive government are not paying an allowance for the internship and that certain other necessary needs can be addressed from the State budget. The current State Officials Act also lists the assistant ministers, ministry secretaries, Deputy Secretary of State of the Central State, Deputy Secretary of Government, Deputy Assistant Director of State Administration. The government is conducting a process of depoliticalising the state administration and professionalising with one move. Therefore, the government's decision, or government, was proposed, and the Parliament passed the Law on civil servants by which these places become official posts. It is therefore necessary to reiterate in this Act that at the moment of the formation of the new government following the first parliamentary elections following the adoption of these laws of the Secretary of State, Deputy Secretary of Government, Head of Government, Deputy State Secretary of the Central State Office and Deputy and Assistant Director of State Administration, they will become official posts, and the Deputy Ministers will be removed in such a name by the directors of the administration as part of the ministries. These provisions have been resolved by the Law on civil servants, however, it is also necessary to delete them from this Law and it will also be necessary from the Law on the handover of authorities and in the system of state administration to comply with the basic principle that they become official posts. The elections will be held as provided for by law, the Constitution. There will be regular elections at the end of 2007, however, the State Election Commission should be established to take over the work of extraordinary elections in individual local units and to achieve the goal of discharging judges of the National Election Commission and, on the other hand, to obtain members of the Election Commission necessary experience because of their knowledge, skills we cannot question, but certainly the experience in the implementation of the elections is good and better to achieve it on the scale of smaller elections than not to be caught by large parliamentary elections. We therefore propose that this law be adopted by emergency procedure in order to select a state electoral commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71471	Thank you. The committees? The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Committee Chairman Drazen Bošnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71472	Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament at the 61st session held on 6 July 2006 discussed the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 29 June 2006. The Committee discussed the draft law on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 57. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In the debate, the Committee supported the proposal from the Proposer to adopt the Law after an urgent procedure. In the debate, the Committee supported the solution set out in the final draft law. After the debate, the Committee unanimously proposed by 7 votes to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Supplements to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71473	The selection and appointment committee? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Honorable representative Antun Kapraljevic, Club of HNS Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71474	Thank you, Mr. President. So here is the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, and I would divide it into three things that it includes, and that is primarily the coefficients for salaries to the State Election Commission, and the second is the abolition of the 0.5% allowance. And the third is what Mr. Palaric called depoliticalisation and professionalisation in public administration. Now, as far as this first section is concerned, where the coefficients are concerned, and how much they need to pay, the members of the State Election Commission, means the president, vice presidents and members. In any case, it is normal for us to support and that this part should be covered so that this permanent State Election Commission could start working and also support the part that zero is not given a full five percent allowance. However, in this whole section, we have added some new officials to the list of state officials, and we know that the list of state officials is not only part of this law, but the list of state officials directly concerns the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests, and we currently have 1130 officials there, because they will never know and it is not known how many of these state officials are there by me and by us at the HNS Club, it is logical that when they came with a proposal from the Parliament with this bill that they came with a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, that even there, these state officials are automatically enrolled and that they have submitted their property cards from the beginning and to begin with their registration as state officials in the commission. So it's on the witness board. In our commission, we have proposed amendments and additions to the law that the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest automatically covers all these state officials who are in the Law on Obligations and Rights of State officials. However, Mr Palarić and the Central State Office at the time, and we in the Parliament, the majority in the Parliament did not accept such amendments and amendments to the law, so that whenever we declare someone to be a new state official, it will happen that it is not automatically covered by the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest and then we will always have the task of resolving this by a new law. So, new amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and I hope that Mr Palaric will soon come before us with a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. As for this third part, which Mr. Palaric called depoliticalisation and professionalisation, it does not seem to me exactly as it seems to me here that HDZ has realised that the next elections will not be won and simply now those secretaries of the ministry, Deputy Secretary of Government, Head of Government, Deputy Secretary of State of State of the Central State, and Deputy and Assistant Director of the State Administration, are turning these jobs from state officials to state officials, and by my assessment, it is some 70 people. They'll no longer be state officials because they came to this place as professionals, but now they'll become officials. No, gentlemen, they shouldn't have come as professionals in this case. They came to these functions with politics, political will, and we now have an article of the law we want to say that they are professionals. They came with politics. They came by no criteria, and we know usually what these criteria are and they became what they became, and right now we're transferring them from state officials to officials and knowingly leaving the future government with a hot potato turning them into officers. He won't be able to get fired, and he'll be employed permanently and normally that he won't be changed, and no law on the handover of the authorities will apply to them, and he'll be able to apply to them, but we'll be left with 70, and I'm sure we'll be in power then, and I'm sure you'll leave us 70 of your people to keep us as a coward's egg that we won't be able to solve, but we'll find them as civil servants, not government officials. Not as officials, but as officers. That is why we must support this bill, in any case, precisely because of the permanent State Election Commission. But the question is raised with this Article 4 which would be best if the proposer had kicked out of this and deleted this Article 4 so that he wouldn't leave the future power of a cowardly egg that I don't think is fair.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71475	Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Velimir Plesa.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71476	It's an incorrect quote, Mr. Kapralevich, when you say it, I'm sure we'll be in power. It simply can't be true because neither you nor I know it but I'm sure you won't be in power. Because if by any chance it wouldn't be HDZ, the HNS can't be in any way.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71477	State Secretary Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71478	Your Honor, Mr. President. The Honorable representative Kapraljevic must have misunderstood this law because he forgot what the Law on Civil Servants reads. No, this government won't fill those jobs with officials. The current officials will carry out their mandate by the end of the elections, when a new government is formed, then the current assistants will follow the fate of officials. So, they will have to put a mandate at their disposal but jobs will become official and these jobs will then be called for by the tender and the new Government will actually have a clean situation to fill those official jobs. That's what the Officials Act says, and it's a concept that when the new government takes over the power to have the freedom to start filling official posts according to the models of the new Staff Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71479	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71480	I'm correcting this incorrect assumption that the new government will be able to. That's not what the law says. The new government won't be able to fill it because it doesn't say it in the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71481	The law clearly states what it says. Club HSP respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71482	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, dear Mr. Palaric. On behalf of the Croatian Party Club, I will point out three important things about the amendments and additions to this Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials. At first, I thought I would talk about the candidacy for the President of the National Election Commission, because you know that the only candidate who meets the requirements was Mr. Ranko Marian, the man who in due time conditioned this Parliament that he asked that we vote unanimously for him to be elected President of the Supreme Court of Croatia. And that's why I'm glad the election board decided to go to a new invitation competition. Because I'm saying we don't have anything against Mr. Ranko Marian, but I think he treated the Croatian Parliament inappropriately, because he was trying to make us conditional on what we're going to do, how we're going to do about that run for president of the Supreme Court of Croatia. And for that, I won't talk about it. And I welcome this decision of the Board of Elections and Appointers. The second thing I have to say on behalf of the Croatian party club is that we must finally agree on these 0.5% so-called. past work. Since the law was passed, that provision has never been applied. And each year it is determined, the section is prolonged that it will not apply to this financial year, or to that calendar year. And now we, and let the government decide exactly and we here, right, whether it will be 0.5% for each for the past work or not. Because this is the worst variant that the law lays down has the right to 0.5, but normally the Law on the implementation of the state budget does not provide the means for that, then each year it is prolonged. And now we see that it's been settled... with the legal force and that's why we need to intervene here as well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we have to decide once if we're going to delete it from the law or if we're going to apply it. Because it's not the same situation here there are parliamentary deputies who have 20, 30 years of employment, some have a year, two or three years of work experience. And therefore, if in other relationships it is decided that this past work is valorized then it should be seen, if there is a provision to be valorised, if we don't delete it then. And the third important thing is the part that needs us a little bit of concern. We Parliamentarians are always the subject in the media of the story of how we have high wages, someone working, someone not working. And now that you're watching them get into this new state official law, what was the government's measure? The measure is very simple. It means that the government considers the lowest rank of officials to be a parliamentary representative and determines all others according to him. This is also evident in this proposal regarding members and the President and Vice-President of the State Election Commission. For example, the members of the State Election Commission are determined the coefficient as well as the parliamentary representatives 5.27. Otherwise, for the sake of the public, I must say that in this rank is the Secretary of the Government, Secretary of the Croatian Parliament, Secretary of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, State Secretary and Deputy Chief State Auditor, Rector of the University, Advocates for Children, Advocates for Gender Equality and... The number of officials in all this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the government, but the important difference between us is, let's say, these people who also have the status of government official, we're elected, they're appointed. That's one important difference. Because in order for someone to become a parliamentary representative other than for national minorities, that is, they must at least gather and have 15 thousand votes. Except for Mrs. Vesna Scare Ozbolt, she was about 14, the least she had on these of us agents. But he says, 15,000 votes should have been raised. And now this variant, so a member of the National Election Commission has the same coefficient, same rank as a representative in the Croatian Parliament, same rank. Practically according to this part, this is a ranking scale as the government considers that someone in the state, among the state officials, is ranked. Because that's, that's one pretty interesting message, and let's just say it's not going to be said in public that a member of the State Election Commission's salary is either a secretary or a government secretary or a Supreme Court secretary, the secretary of the Constitutional Court, that's not interesting, is it? They're just as ranked as us parliamentary deputies, but that's not interesting. But you'll always put us in the first place. Okay, that's, we're public figures, so we have to be ready for criticism and everything else because that's, that's life, and that's the fate of a public person. But I'm saying, this is a little bit, on behalf of the club, I have to say that I have to point out the fact and I'm asking the Secretary of State to explain why, in all proposals, the government is starting to not be able to determine any lower than the coefficient for a representative in the Croatian Parliament. I mean, that's a little bit, there's no valid explanation. I find this criterion unclear, and because of that, the main criterion is that the late General Bobetko said whether you were chosen or appointed. I was chosen by the people, and if you are appointed as such, you can be resolved. This is one important difference and I want to hear in the name of the Croatian Party Club what standards it was that it always so determines that in essence, we parliamentary representatives are to the government's relationship completely at the bottom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71483	For the club IDS, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71484	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament, the esteemed Secretary of State. He wonders and wonders, Mr. Kovacevic, why all this. So all such laws the administration writes for itself. That's the point. And from these coefficients you can see it best. What Parliament? Well, we played the last hole in the game. And they continue to humiliate us further, and the very institution of Parliament is at stake. Secondly, it would not be a good idea for civil servants, as suggested when secretaries are fixed, because it also fixates executive authority. Politics has set them up and let them follow a policy, namely the fate of a policy that comes and goes from power. He who chooses them by his will would say the people from, leave them there for the rest of their lives to every future government. So what's some future government going to do now? They'll re-change this law, they'll return the deputies, they'll return the assistants, and we'll only fatten that state administration. Finally, what is your authority and what is your authority if you can't come with you, if you really need to bring 100 people who will follow you and in the event of your fall from power follow your destiny if you can't influence even the first 100 people. The government is setting them up. When the government leaves let them go, too. And let them be loyal to her during the term of office. As far as this Electoral Commission is concerned, Light is the motive of this debate, it is an artificially created institution, invented, Croatia absolutely unnecessary, but what we will do. We have it, and now we have to deal with it clearly. I said the last time we talked about it, the one who's gonna do that job is like he's getting a week at the lottery. Or in his eight-year term, there are, like, five election cycles. The president of the state is elected, twice has parliamentary elections and twice has local elections and this is how one comfortable six-month job. There's no way he has more than six months of work. So this job should have been left to do through or through the institutions that have done these electoral work so far. But what do we do? Croatia is copying others in everything and clearly copying them into it. Now it's very interesting who the candidates are. Who are the candidates? Some of them were mentioned by Mr Kovacevic. Now, if someone couldn't be the President of the Supreme Court, could he be the president of this institution or should he be happy to be a judge? There's no more responsible function than a judge. No one has the right to play with anyone's fates, send someone to prison without a clear basis or in custody, to participate in some political process. If someone was involved until 90, whether it was Paraga or after 90, whether it was Hinić, etc. I don't know if he's worthy of running a Croatian institution like that. I know we're all wrong, I know we're all bloody under the skin, but not everyone's playing with human destiny, and we wouldn't be ready for that. I'm also afraid that in such cases the government can always manipulate these people, so if it can manipulate, say, the results of the elections. You'll tell us we're a democratic society, we have our institutions set up by the example of the most democratic Western European countries, that's clearly fine. But can it happen that, say, the falsifying elections? Someone's gonna say no, and I say they can. In Croatia alone, I can vote dead souls in the presidential elections, I mean the whole vote in order for the President of the Republic of Stipe Mesic to say, even the cemetery. And who can suspect now, say, the afterlife? No one. But that's why he can question the results of the election, and that's why gentlemen aren't playing with it. On the trail and what Mr. Kovacevic was talking about. I would also like MPs to have at least as members of this committee, because these are the only people in this country who have direct electoral legitimacy. I'm not talking about paid phones, credit cards, I don't know the secretaries, etc. but what we should at least require is that we have a desk outside the chair in this High House. One word is that we are no longer a red spit cloth for all and all, and those who come with our will to write to themselves regularly and to be in a more privileged position than the MPs. I know the representatives don't need a union, they don't need a union, but they need to talk about their own status and stop serving everyone as a red rag for attacks both from the administration and from the administration and from everyone else. Every director in the Croatian public enterprise founded by this government or the former government or state is all one thing, whether it's about Ina, whether it's about the Croatian railway, whether it's about the Croatian Post Office or I don't know Croatia's insurance, about Croatian Broadcasting, has three times the salary of the president of the state or the president of this House or the president of the Croatian Government. Every secretary in the government, we see her in a better position than any MP, and we keep our mouth shut. Come on, but at least we'll tell you. I would not even mention it, I would not talk about it if, in some way, respected gentlemen of MPs, did not degrade, derivated the role of Parliament, and I would not speak of it if I didn't have the feeling that this policy in some way was led by the executive authority, because it dulls the edge of criticism towards itself, but respected gentlemen, respected Mr. Secretary of State, thus weak and the influence of Parliament, the role of Parliament, and we are primarily here to defend the dignity of these institutions and state secretaries have no right to play with us, not with us, but with the institution of the Croatian Parliament. As a rule, the minister of clear which comes from these lines should have the status as an unknown director of Croatia's security, the president of the state even bigger, the President of the Parliament, the Prime Minister, the state secretary, the assistant minister or what I know will come about, cannot be in a position that will be more privileged than the parliamentary representative. Many parliamentary deputies could have been state secretaries, but few that the State Secretary in the previous elections could have been a parliamentary representative and that should be said by gentlemen and below a certain line of dignity this Assembly must not go. I'm not talking about wages or anything, but I'm talking about one principle. Something's set up, and gentlemen of the State Secretary, so get in line. Not above the MPs, but under the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71485	Corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71486	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues agreeing with many aspects of what my colleague Cain said, but he would still correct something that seems to me to imply, perhaps not so explicit. In some ways, it was questioned if I understood correctly, the professional, moral character of potential candidate Judge Ranko Marian. I would point out that this is an honorable and qualified judge.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71487	The second correction, a respected representative of Jaksa Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71488	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. And in most of what Mr. Cain discussed, I would agree with him, just for the sake of the truth. I don't know if the directors of public enterprises have three times the salary of the president of the state, a monthly salary. I know they have a bigger one. If they had a bigger... Wait a minute, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71489	A colleague's correction to an incorrect quote. You have to tell me what's...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71490	All I know is that they have, and the correction of the incorrect assumption is that in the previous term, no public firm director has had any higher salary than the minister, which means 15 thousand kuna. ... Pay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, that's a correction to an incorrect assumption. So they didn't have three times as big as the president of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71491	Honorable representative Velimir Plesa, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71492	Mr. Cain's imprecise quote is incorrect when he says: "The electoral commission is an imaginary institution in Croatia unnecessary". That's incorrect. It is not unnecessary for such an institution in Croatia, it is only a question of whether it is necessary in this form and whether such people who will make good money in this institution and live eight years in peace should then be chosen.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71493	SDP representative club, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71494	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Palaric and his associate, colleagues and colleagues. We at the SDP Club consider that there is no basis for a hit or at least for us known or publicly published reasons why this proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials which regulates the coefficient of members, practically pays members, vice presidents and presidents of the State Election Commission should be adopted by emergency procedure. The proposal states that this is for a reason because, yes, it is precisely the course of candidacy, i.e. sending a public call to interested candidates for appointment to the State Election Commission. However, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and Article 159, this reason is not known to the Rules of Procedure. In fact, the Rules of Procedure say that the law can only be passed by emergency procedure when defence interests require it. It is obvious here that the defense is not working, or other particularly justified state reasons. What is stated in the proposal, i.e. in the context of urgency, is not the need for the urgency of passing such a bill, but it is obvious that they may exist, in particular, the legitimate state reasons which we have here for the representatives, and neither have we been made public. However, it has been made public several times by the prime minister and individual members of the government that the elections will be regular. So we still have a year and a half to go to regular choices. A bill of urgency like this will be passed if there will be elections very soon. So, if this is about, in this particular case of ours, about the need to hold extraordinary elections, so before the deadline. If that's the case, then we'd have to agree that the law goes according to emergency procedures, into emergency procedures. However, it is publicly denied by top state officials, arguing exactly the opposite. Well, if we trust them that the election will be regular then the question is why determine the coefficients, or pay people a year and a half in advance. That may not be so bad for the state budget in its total, but it's a bad message. Therefore, and in relation to the integrity of the persons who will work in the National Election Commission. Which they must have in advance, and every day they must gain greater public trust. In this way, we will create an animosity for this institution and for these people because the public will rightly wonder what they are doing in these years and a half, and they are getting paid. Let's remember maybe, maybe this is an opportunity, I say, to remember that time of the 1990s when the feather movement founded the courts, let me say, in front of every fruit tree in the Republic of Croatia. And the appointed presidents of the courts and the presidents of the courts had been paid for a long period of years, that we only suspended it in 2000. For years, the presidents of the courts, the non-existent courts who were the only courts on paper had salaries and caused justifiable anger for the citizens. Because people are very sensitive to these questions. Finally, in the SDP, we note in the SDP Club that the evaluation and election of the necessary means to implement the law only descriptively states that additional resources in the state budget will be needed. However, the proposer was obliged to specify which, because that's calculated, if anything else is calculated, then it's calculated here because it knows exactly what the number of people is, we calculate and the coefficient. Therefore, it was necessary to specify how much this bill would cost. Therefore, I see no reason, or we at the SDP Club do not see the reason why it is not stated. With regard to the determination of the coefficients themselves, so that the President of the State Election Commission would be paid as president of the Working Body in the Assembly, vice-presidents as vice-presidents of the body, and members as well as MPs themselves. Perhaps there is no more serious objection if we have in mind both the responsibility and the independence of these people, and in the wake of that, here's colleague Cain mentioned, what has happened over the past 15, 16 years with elections, in our own, with presidential elections when they voted and dead souls, but unfortunately we have a special head in criminal law, in the Criminal Law on election abuses, fraud, electoral theft. No one and even though the electoral commission then established electoral thefts, no one has ever been responsible for the electoral theft and for the electoral fraud. And it's a shame, just a little bit now to remind ourselves, what in the Law on the State Election Commission is, and in the original idea it was actually in the first proposal, but later on, it was expelled, and the power of the State Election Commission to respond to such things and to submit then and the application itself. However, as it is the duty of every citizen to notice that it is an injury, i.e. a criminal offence, and, in particular, here on this occasion, we draw attention to the great role of the State Election Commission, that it should also act preventively in this sense. However, here is when it was also about the candidates who appeared here, of course, which is also an appropriate time, that we know who will also be presidents, or vice presidents and themselves members of the election committee, we at the SDP Club would disagree with this finding that causes some doubts about the person, on our own towards the person of the president, or candidate for the president of the National Election Commission. However, it points to something else. Everywhere in the world, the fact that someone has become a Supreme Court judge is the crown and the end, that is, the highlight of a legal and judicial career. It is a special, not only duty but also a special honor in every country. When candidates are recruited from the Supreme Court and the judicial profession, then the most judicial instance must be concerned by the executive authority. What happens to the judiciary when our judges run away again into other professions or other positions? They're obviously not happy with the work and the functioning, nor with the treatment of the judiciary. That's what he's talking about. Therefore, the candidacy is not a question of person, but it is precisely the desire to be in another place, and not in the Supreme Court I say it is just saying that it is a serious situation, that we have retrograde processes once again when it is escaped from the judiciary, and it is not coming, or it would be quite logical that other affidavits from other professions are running already as affirmed in the judicial profession, in the judicial Corps, and that is something that concerns, and what this data when we have already touched the person himself about it. Speaking on behalf of the club, our colleague from the HNS rightly concluded that this provision of Article 4 should not be here at all. It speaks precisely about how this norm should be exposed, that it is an expression of fear for the promoter for the ruling position in the next election and that it is in this way that it wants to ensure as many of its people in the system as possible. We see it in this way or in a more or less explicit way sometimes, and sometimes it's implicitly recognized in almost every bill, and it's about the practice that we don't even talk about. That's exactly what we from the SDP club are waiting for, finally, for, the government to give us this information about how many new people have been employed by the state administration since the time this administration took place. This is precisely why I am in the SDP club depending on whether or not the SDP will respond to these comments on its own regarding the provision of Article 4 which is not the place in this proposal and will be the position of the SDP club to support this proposal or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71495	Corrections to incorrect allegations, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71496	Your Honor, Mr. President, I am correcting the incorrect allegation of a distinguished colleague, Ingrid, who says the Supreme Court judge is running for President of the State Election Commission in relation to the executive authority to the court. That's incorrect. This fact speaks of going to a better paid place, with less work, with less responsibility than a Supreme Court judge.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71497	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71498	counterpart Anticevic implies that the government, the current government is preparing for the elections by putting its people in this election commission. That's incorrect because HDZ didn't need it in the '90s or 2003, so it doesn't need it now.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71499	HNS representative club, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go. A 10-minute debate, a respected representative only Nikola Vuljanić, not on behalf of the club, but on behalf of the club. HNS representative club, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go. A 10-minute debate, a respected representative only Nikola Vuljanić, not on behalf of the club, but on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71501	Thank you, Mr. President. This was supposed to be a technical law that would regulate the formation of the State Election Commission. Of course, we supported the formation of the State Election Commission as a key body for the conduct of fair elections, so we must also support that part of the Law on State Officials. However, both Article 1 and Article 4 actually speak about the same thing, said counterpart Kavrljevic, a colleague of Anticevic. Namely, they're talking about the rush being big and that the extraordinary elections are about to take place. If that's not how this law is given first in an emergency procedure so that these state officials do not know within what month, two, three how to become members of the National Election Commission there is no. On the other hand, in Article 4 of today's national officials, at the moment of the next election, why turn them into civil servants. If we think it's bad that they're government officials that these people really should be officials to professionalize the administration, and why don't we do it with the current day of entry into force right now, by taking effect within 8 days and so on, so let's turn these jobs into jobs in the term of this government. On the other hand, I see absolutely no reason why the fact that these jobs stop being official and become official falls under this Act. The fact that, in this law, it is necessary to stop, to write that these posts are abolished, that is true. However, if these people become officials, they should write in the Civil Service Act not here. This isn't the place, this place here only if we intend to turn these people from government officials to civil servants otherwise I don't see any reason why it would be here. If this is the case, then if the next government accepts it in practice and the next government after that, we will be put into a situation like some cities where city business directors who had contracts to stay in the company after leaving the principal post, let's say some small city firms in the City of Karlovac have 12 employees, 6 former directors. Directors are being replaced, at the end of the ballad, only directors will be working in these companies, and at the end of the ballad in the state service, especially in prominent places, only those brought by a team and turned them from official to official. I don't see any reason why that would even be regulated by this law. I expected such high coefficients, and unlike my colleagues, I don't think they are too high coefficients, I think the State Election Commission is a body that will play a key role for us in the future development of democracy in Croatia, and these people have to be paid in a decent way, at least as it is mentioned here, I don't see anything wrong with those figures. I expected one more thing in the amendments and additions to this law, which is erasing the university's rector from the list of state officials. The complaint was also held in the previous debate on the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials. The constitutional provision prescribing university autonomy is in direct contrast with that, and now a new situation appears. I warn the secretary of state that there are three or four initiatives in Croatia for the establishment of private universities. A private university will be established. The law says university rectors are state officials. The director of the private university will be a state official under the law, you can't challenge him. In what way? We're going to get into a stupid situation that we don't need in any way. The university's rectors don't belong there and they're clear that they don't belong there and the entire academic community is clear that they don't belong there, they should simply be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71502	Thank you. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71503	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I have had some personal experience in making a rule on rewarding according to the work that was there in 78-79, and the older members of this House will remember, adopted in the referendum. I did these rules for various professions from the Medical School, Zagreb butcher's shops and fish shops, some theatres, health homes, and all my rules passed. Why did they pass? Because I was applying the old Marxist model to work that took into account several elements. The first element was the complexity of work, the second was the element of work effort, the third was mental effort. When I was working on the rules for the butchers, then the director of Zagreb's butchers had only one request, not to give any point to fishers and butchers because he claimed that they were not making any effort. But I insisted on absolute autonomy and did not agree to such blackmail. So when we talk about coefficients here, that's what many colleagues have been talking about, here the problem of coefficienting the problem of theoretical insight these three elements, meaning the complexity of work, work effort, mental effort and work experience. According to this criterion, I, like my colleague Cain, notice some masochistic trait in this House and some kind of provocation by the legislator of this law. To give a man who will be, to have some of the most pleasant duties in Croatia, means he will work occasionally for several hours, because I must remind you that until now it has been a work in the fuzz of the Supreme Court President who has received secretarial assistance in Opatija 8 of our secretaries there and who would have worked for two or three hours, practically did nothing. When I received threats from our fellow physical liquidation in the last presidential election, I addressed him for protection and he practically said in his memo, since he did not kill me that the threat could not be taken seriously. Therefore, giving a coefficient of 6.42 to the president of the state election committee means humiliating the judges of the Constitutional Court, the chief state auditor, the attorney general and all these state officials, and first of all, the masochist condemning the parliamentary majority who will vote for such a job. So between us, based on these experiences of the 1970s, that the coefficient there is 30% below Mr. Palaric's coefficient, I would say it's a reasonable proposal and that would be a good thing if that were the case. However, the last few days I've been in a positive mood, so this is what I praise, so they even resented me, I'd like to commend the Croatian People's Party, that's what I'd like. So I'd like to compliment her because this law reminds me of their game of millionaires. So they found their essence in that game, so it's a party that has really the fastest fingers, that shares everything when it's dealing with the state by half, so half of me, half of you and half your grandmother, and that when she has some problems with her own identity and knowledge, then she asks the audience and it all leads to millionaire status. Therefore I would ask you to certainly... /The speaker turned off and back on./...When you come wherever you come you and I are objects of contempt, an insult as a universal metaphor of evil not only Croatian politics but Croatian public life. If we, Mr. President, agree to vote this bill, we will deserve those insults. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71504	Thank you. Replica, a respected representative of Jaksa Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71505	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I can't stand being missed, especially when I'm short of Leticia. You know, it's something I can't bear, especially with regard to his three half. Three halves of Letica can only be three pigs' halves in Mate Granic. There are always two halves in HNS, but unfortunately we can't get to that half of yours of 280 thousand a year, because we can't get to 10%, let alone half. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71506	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71507	Despite the modesty of my colleague Marasovic, I will continue to praise him. And as for these, justified compensations that the Croatian Constitutional Court has decided on, it belongs to every parliamentary representative, but you, Mr. Marasovic, give that compensation to your party and it allows the three people of your party to be millionaires at national level and you are reduced to a local and sub-local level and you deserve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71508	Dear Representative, Vice President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71509	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. Let me read right away that I can hardly give my vote for this bill. First, this law was supposed to be a technical law, and it actually opened up a whole series of political issues that were present with us. Why can't you vote for him? First, for reasons of being proposed by an emergency procedure, and at the same time the law, the business reasons offered in our Rules of Procedure are not met. Therefore, there is no reason for an emergency procedure, and if an emergency procedure is to be sought, then it would be only if it is sought by particularly justified state reasons. The particularly justified state reasons here would only be in case they are planned and if the national elections have already been announced. Since this has not happened and will not happen, at least based on the announcement of the ruling, strongest parties of the ruling coalition, then this business reason is also not fulfilled and could not be... The second reason is again formal, at first sight of the formal-legal nature. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The necessary funding should be provided, rather than indicating that it will be foreseen by the state budget, and then not foreseen by the state budget. We had a rebalancing of the state budget and the rebalance did not provide for these funds to finance the State Election Commission. Third and perhaps the most important reason for me. It is here proposed that former assistant ministers, secretary of the ministries, secretaries of the government, etc. They also abolish that these places actually become places of office, that is, instead of officials, while at the same time retaining the coefficients of officials. Well, he can't, you know, sit on two chairs. This provision, which Article 12(3) does not change at all, remains in force, and in such a situation, officials' salaries are left behind, while at the same time they could not be officials. The question arises whether it will be counselors, what rank and how. I don't think our administration is well paid. In fact, I think it's underpaid, that we need to get a lot more money, and especially the responsible people in the state administration. However, two criteria cannot be maintained in the evaluation of the state administration's work. The old provisions and coefficients for assistants, for State Secretarys, for Government Secretarys, Secretary of Parliament, etc., etc. And at the same time, it's proposed to keep the job, which is not good. Of course, in this context, a particular question should be asked, and are these people really counselors or ministerial assistants? Whether they are advisors who advise in the implementation of the administration which should be fast, efficient, accurate, precise, etc., etc. or do they, as ministerial assistants, support a policy that is the ruling coalition or ruling party that has come to power? They are closer to government officials and assistants than they are advisers and they decide not to enforce self-rule regulations and laws that are bound in that segment. And that's why they're government officials. Here is trying to do something that is very dangerous and that will make the re-amendment of the law after a possible change of government, which is that a certain structure that should implement the laws actually ensures that it stays in the same places where it is. And it's a political game, it's not acceptable. This is not acceptable, and that is why this Law simply cannot be supported. The fourth group of reasons is related to the so-called past work or 0.5 years at work. It's been three years, and it's not exactly the first argument that it's never been applied. It was applied and state officials received these 0.5% as it has also happened in the last 3 years or 4 years, in fact 4 years or 5 years not to apply. But one question opens, a question of justice. If we feel that we should have for that amount an average, spent amount, thus saving the amount of the reduced salary, I think we should cut the wages. But it is definitely necessary to return years of employment for the sake of others to be valued and the experience that, if it is valued in all jobs in accordance with the Labour Act, it is also worth on these duties. For a simple reason, many people, after the end of a certain state-owned office, are retired, but they have been reduced by the basis for the calculation of pensions in fact for that year of employment, unlike all others who work in this respect. And I think the principle of justice requires that, in fact, this way of change, and I don't mind having a discussion about reducing the base salary for the average savings, but that the official, the fee, the years of internships are definitely coming back, that we leave that part behind. The fifth group of questions, of course, that the State Election Commission also has its status and that from the title of the status, not only should the job title obtain the appropriate coefficients for covering and performing certain duties. But I agree absolutely that it can't be in this rank that's supposed to be here. It simply cannot be given the fact that both the size of the work and the work tasks they will carry out. Let's face it, the state electoral commission will still only hold state elections for the president of the state, for the National Assembly and coordinate and direct the election function for local and regional self-government, and indeed the rest will be conducted by the electoral commissions by local and regional self-government. And that's what I'm going to give you for? Well, there's no better appraisals or better rewards for someone who's at the end of the week than coming to the Electoral Commission. Watch out, MPs, a member of the electoral commission should have the salary of MPs who must pass state elections at national level for 4 years. So, two times for an eight-year term. This one gets paid eight years in advance, and there's no obligation. I think it's small, that few of these criteria are simply mixed and that such things have happened in which we can actually have a hard time discussing them this way. And last but not least, this Law is trying to cover up a regulation supplementing the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials by which it is reduced or better said and does not apply 0.5% per year of internship in this year. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we all know that from the aspect of the Law on the Powers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, such a regulation could not be passed because it actually affects taxes and personal incomes and in such a situation should not, this regulation is actually questionable from a constitutional and legal point of view. But also all of us as state officials wanting to serve an example among other things in our social community, not only at the level of the state but also at the social community, as should be tried, here and in this way give up part of the income and share the fate of the average citizen of the Republic of Croatia, we did not object. But it doesn't make sense that this way actually tries to sanction such an illegal state related to that regulation. I think that we should actually sit down and do this, turn this into a first reading, and, based on this debate we have in the House today, we need to assign the proposer to prepare by 9 months the final bill, in which our people will say it in justice and how God commands to regulate between us and this relationship. This isn't just a question, I repeat the question of pay, nor... , this is a question and a status and let's finally let it be public and openly it can't happen that someone who represents the people that we claimed to be above him is only God, being, now becoming a standard by which he is actually one of the initial levels in everything else status and materially in relation to the social community. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't mind the public condemning us, assessing us and having to do it, we're MPs and we're public figures, we have to do it, we have to suffer, but unlike that, we can't be below each, the post can't be the lowest official, almost the lowest position in the hierarchy of serious officials. You know, it doesn't make any sense to be at the level of a member of the electoral commission, so I think there's actually a question to be asked, and why did we even form the State Election Commission? It seems that we get a few people we're going to host, who's going to have a professional salary, and not because we have a state election commission to do a whole series of other jobs that we really need to take care of and account for the interests that need to be brought to the bottom line that our choices are always fair, fair and legal, and that's why I suggest that we consider the situation, that we turn this law into a first reading and that nothing happens to the second reading until the 9th month, that at the end of the month we get the final bill to regulate these relationships. Of course, this proposal to my colleagues in the majority coalition to think this through because the opposition will not decide this, but the principle of justice requires that this is the way to be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71510	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71511	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Whether the law goes to first reading or the final proposal we leave it to the counsel's will, as decided it will be. I do not want to pollute whether or not it is appropriate to make a proposal of coefficients, we certainly wanted it to be a respectable body, that it is ineligible, that the best candidates report for a member of the State Election Commission because we believe that it will also be a political arbitration in some of its activities, but in no case was the government's intention to underestimate the role of MPs, we have only tried to compromise it with one of Parliament's working bodies without the clear right to take a turn and it remains the right to retire and everything that belongs to MPs. However, I would like to point out once again this article of ours, which is deliberately misrepresented outside the context of the Law on civil servants referred to by the law. Namely, the government wants to depolitize and professionalise the state administration, there have been various experts within... The programs that work in Croatia, work, have worked on the Law on civil servants and have proposed that we fill those jobs with civil servants immediately. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And just to avoid objections that the government is setting up and leaving its people to the future government that will be, which the people choose to create with their hands tied, we have defined ourselves as the concept that the model so far goes to the next election. Now these are state officials, their coefficient is determined by this Law and they will follow the fate of state officials. So they will have to put a mandate at their disposal and in no case will they become civil servants and remain in place. After the election, when a new government is formed, then we will establish a European system, which is in the ministries of ministers and state secretaries are politicians of a changing category, everything else remains professionals of civil servants, will be chosen by the basis of a public tender, and by then there will be a reasonable coefficient because of the fact that the new Law on Salaries is going to be applied to civil servants and will be covered by these future directors, future secretaries of ministries, etc. So, in no way do we intend to set people up, concreteize the system, but this mandate will be done by one rule, everyone who goes to a political game knows what the rules of the game are, which when they get the right majority, so they can put together a government that's going to be their maneuvering space. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71512	Thank you very much. Does the Secretary of State, in respect of the coefficients, have regard to these objections and the objections to that matter?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71513	And we will consider until the vote on the law we will have a position on whether the government will follow the amendment or see if any amendments have been submitted, so we have room or will decide that the law will go to another reading, that we will, until the vote we will define.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71514	Because representatives of the Croatian Parliament should not have a rank or below the rank to be what you propose.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71515	Okay, we understand the arguments, I'll pass on to the government the position we heard here and until the vote we still have time to react.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71516	I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. Final proposal of the Law supplementing the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials of State. It was an emergency procedure, according to proposals from the debate. I am voting on the next conclusion on the proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials with the Final Proposal of the Law. A debate was held in the first reading. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 105 votes to one abstention, the proposed conclusion was reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71519	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Law on Courts, or the New Law on Courts, has recently entered into force. It entered into force on 29 December 2005, it is a roof law for the judiciary, i.e. for courts, because it regulates the establishment, division and actual jurisdiction of courts if it is not determined by other laws on the internal structure of courts, the internal structure of the Supreme Court, the conditions for the appointment and resolution of judges, judges, judges, presidents of courts, their rights and duties, protection... judicial bodies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, although recently adopted during the application, the six-month application of this Act has nevertheless proved necessary in practice because of the different interpretations and some difficulties in applying and caused in fact by doubts about the interpretation of certain provisions to access its amendments and additions. This applies, among other things, to the provision of a law which requires the obligation of judges as judicial officials to file a report on their property on what we say about the property card. The provisions of Article 97 of the Law require that judges are required to submit to the Ministry of Justice, within 30 days of the date of entry into service, a report on their assets, permanent incomes and the assets of their spouse and minor children with their status on that day and a report after the termination of their duties if certain changes have occurred in the meantime. In view of such a provision of the law, therefore, within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law, that they are obliged to apply the property, such interpretation of the provision shows that only the judges who have been appointed or will be appointed from the date of entry into force of this law will, therefore, be appointed on 29 December and that the provision of the law would not apply to judges who have already been before and act as judges before the entry into force of this law. This certainly was not the government's intensities as either the legislator or the legislator, and it is therefore proposed to prescribe that within three months of the date of adoption of this law, judges who have already been appointed and are acting in office so before 29 December 2005 are obliged to do so. Also, the newspaper introduced by this law is that the presidents of the court are members of the judicial councils. However, the procedure for the appointment of the Judicial Councils was carried out over the past year under the earlier applicable law and these judicial councils were appointed for a period of four years. Therefore, since it was not said that the presidents of the courts are now in place of members of these appointed judicial councils, the question is whether or not they can participate in their work is raised. Opposite interpretation would say that they cannot actually be three years from the date of the entry into force of this law as members of the Judicial Council so that the proposed law is prescribed and that the new Judicial Councils are required to be established and established within four months of the date of entry into force of this law. It has also been shown in practice that the six-month period at which the Minister of Justice can best authorise a certain judge to act as judge, that is the duty of the Court's president in practice is too short, it is objectively too short and namely the situations where the President of the Court has ceased his duties due to the expiry of the deadline, whether he is eventually resolved and now needs to implement the whole procedure prescribed by the Law on Courts for the appointment of a new President of the Court. Therefore, the publication of the ad, application of the opinion of the Judicial Council, etc. which rarely usually takes much longer than ten months than this legal term so that this is proposed to be deleted. It is also proposed to extend the circle of officials to which... This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Court law. The provision of the law states that if a judge becomes a minister of justice, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice or Assistant Minister to him or if he is appointed to some duty in international courts for his judicial duty to rest, it is proposed to extend the circle of those officials to the President of the State Election Commission. It is also proposed that this law amend the provision relating to the provisional reference of judges to work for a more equal burden on courts or judges by individual courts so that the judge may, after the decision of the President of the Supreme Court, be temporarily addressed to work in another court up to 50 kilometers away. Dear ladies and gentlemen, this is in short what is proposed by this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71520	Thank you. The committees? We'll continue this at 3:00. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session and the debate on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Honored Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go. No, on behalf of the board, we'll do it first. The Justice Committee, Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71522	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At its 44th session, held on 11 July 2006, the Committee for the Justice of the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts, with the final draft law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 6 July 2006. The Committee discussed the law in question on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In her opening statement, she pointed out that the proposed amendments and additions eliminate the difficulties that have arisen in the application and interpretation of the law. It is proposed to submit an asset report for all judges, so for all judges, to establish new judicial councils within four months. The term of six months shall be deleted for the appointment of the President of the Court and Dr. In the debate, the Committee members supported the proposed amendments and amendments to the law. After the discussion, the Committee on Justice unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71523	Thank you. For the HDZ Club, respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71524	Mr. President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts and what I want to say to the judiciary is a subject very often discussed in this House and the judiciary is indeed one of the foundations of the rule of law. Without good and quality justice, there is no rule of law. Unfortunately, we cannot say that roses are flowering in this segment, and of course we cannot say that this foundation is particularly solid and stable, but what we can undoubtedly say is that in this mandate we have taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the judiciary. Correcting the situation in the judiciary can't even happen overnight, it can't go that fast, of course, it's one process and it's one procedure in which you need to take a series of measures, a series of activities to get to the desired quality, which is that our citizens protect their rights in the process against the judicial authorities in the most efficient, fastest way. That's exactly how I look at this law. Half a year ago, just over half a year ago, we passed this Law on Courts, the promoter saw certain shortcomings, certain difficulties, and here it is now proposed that some things related to the Law on Courts be corrected, made more effective. What I think is very important, I think it is a good measure that is proposed in Article 2 which is that the judge may be temporarily referred to work at the second court of the same degree and up to 50 kilometers from the court in which he is acting at the request of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. This is undoubtedly one measure that can lead to the more efficient work of those courts where there is a lack of judges, and there are courts that, within the same area of a county court, have more judges and an insufficient number of cases. Just like this, we will be able to move these judges to those courts that mean they have a large number of cases that are loaded and send these judges from these less burdened courts to get both the good quality and the speed of the trial. Also, this second measure, which I think is very important, which is proposed by this law, is the introduction of property cards for judges. She has no doubt she was not clearly and well solved by the law that we have passed here it is clear that she is not only referring to these judges who will be newly appointed but that she refers to all the judges who are in our judiciary. It's one measure that's in itself and deeply anti-corruption, because really the public has the right to know, we all have the right to know the property, the property card of the judicial officials, and it's necessary to compare every year to see what they've acquired, to see the way they've acquired it. Whether there have been certain disproportionateities in relation to the receipts they have and then they are obliged to explain it, of course. In any case, that's one good measure we're proposing. These other measures concerning the Presidents of the Courts who are members of the Judicial Council are certain technical changes which we also consider necessary for this law to be adopted. Indeed, in these two and a half years and before, we have taken a number of measures related to the judiciary, and by statistics, it seems to me that the situation in the judiciary is improving, the number of pending cases according to the information that we have decreased, and that is one trend in the judiciary that I think is due to all of these good measures that we have taken. I'll say one of the perhaps crucial was, was the authority of the Supreme Court's president to place cases with overloaded courts on courts that weren't so burdened. This is, in any case, one measure that has helped and cases that have indeed been pacified in some courts and waited for many years to come to a settlement, in less-loaded courts have come much earlier and it is certainly a very good measure that we have brought. Let us also remember that we have also digitized the land and books departments of our courts, that we have passed amendments to the laws relating to the land-booking process. Let us also remember that we have been very dissatisfied and with the criminal policy of our courts, we have also changed the criminal law here in Parliament in a way that we have raised at a large number of criminal measures that lower limit means a minimum of punishment prescribed for a certain criminal offence and in this way we are actually leading to these penalties being more severe. We also gave the authority to solve the notebooks with a considerable amount of disbursement from the courts. Finally, we also brought the National Strategy for Justice, which is being implemented in the good part, and I think that all the measures we've taken in the judiciary so far, that they're very good and that they're good and that they're really going to be seen in the coming years through the number of cases that are actually older and not solved, that we're going to see the shifts for the better. In this spirit I also see the proposed amendments to this Law on Courts and therefore the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71525	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71526	Thank you, Mr. President, for your honor of the secretary of state, your colleagues and your colleagues. We have before us the Government's proposal of the Court Act. He's wearing a P.Z. tag. No. 530. It is noted that the SDP Club has submitted its proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Courts much earlier, and it carries the number 494. However, we are not angry with the theft of ideas, to paraphrasise Tesla that has been quoted many times lately but we are sorry that the promoters do not have their own ideas. Namely, what's this about? Not even six months, please, have passed on the amendments and additions to the Law on Courts, on a fundamental law under which reforms are implemented, and it is corrected. So we don't have any innovations here, but for God's sake, the proposer's wrong and incorrect explanation, because of the concerns that have arisen in practice. So in what practice? In 6-month practice or practice until then? So, this is proof of a schlamper who stems from a ministry that should, which implements the reform, please, a single-based judiciary, which is a priority as it announces and how this government keeps saying, which was the priority of the last government and which must certainly be a priority and the next and perhaps future governments. So, that this proposal for a law on courts that the majority voted in December 2005 and now we have to because of obvious even mistakes that, yes, the Ministry of Justice has proposed to change now because it's a loss, let's say a provision called judges. Not on the basis of the competition, but on the basis of the ad. Well, it's an old thing, and that's what we at the SDP Club pointed out, speaking on behalf of the club and individually. But the promoter didn't listen. We also suggested it in our proposal. We also suggested that it be publicly known that the act of the minister is an act of authority. So we do not honor or downplay the role of a minister like that once upon a time when fundamental changes took place in 2000, or 2001. That's why we were fiercely criticized. No, the minister has that authority, it's the authority of public authorities, not an administrative act. Although, what was going on in practice? Let's remember last year. There are no candidates, with the worst grades possible, who then failed to dispute the decision of the resolute minister, or minister, and complained to the administrative court. And then the courts were not declared incompetent. But I am standing in that position today and then that it is not an act, a general administrative act, but an act of authority. Now that it's an act of government, it's not the Secretary of Resorni who washed all the responsibility to do what he wants. In fact, he was even more concerned with the public's responsibility and suspicion, but also with the public's expectations. That the decision, which was just on the SDP initiative and was included, is that this is exactly the decision to explain. We don't mind even doing it as the minister has worked so far, or some other authority to have a minister. But to make decisions transparent and which is why the minister decided something, to make it clear to everyone. We don't know why an ad in Benkovec was canceled for a public notary today. Although the candidate or candidate, I don't even know who it's about, gets it, gets it or gets it or gets the recommendation, or all the positive opinion of the public record chamber. Well maybe there are other than some formal ones, so from a formal point of view everything is fine, and there are possible mistakes, but there seems to be all right there. Perhaps the ministry, or the minister, knows of some obstacles, but then the public should be warned about what it is. And at a time when we're fighting corruption, and when we're just from this big fight right now, we're back again, and now we're behind Serbia. So, just to prevent that, to prevent such a further erosion and to restore citizens' trust in institutions and eliminate such perceptions because we will not escape the tip of corruption because we say, it is nothing, this perception seems to be bigger than corruption does. But to be credible with its acts, it has been specifically called upon by the authorities, by the public authority to be just as transparent in its action to remove such doubts. And I'm telling you on a few practical moves such suspicions would be eliminated. So it's not big and abstract words that help it, it's works. We can't be gullivers of words. We can't be lylputs of deeds. That's what the famous Tenzer said, not me. It is good that we have warned of this before, that now this provision that only so far, the newly appointed judges should show theirs, give a report on their assets. Of course, the logic of things is that the team before and the team gives more to those judges who have appointed it before, before the adoption of this law. But here you see, the government doesn't go, the promoter doesn't go any further. So what? Well, we've all submitted cards, not to be controlled by the President of the Parliament and stored there or in the commission itself. ... And you did well. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's to be made public. So what are these property cards gonna do to the president of the court or to the ministry that's gonna stand? Well, then you're losing your touch. Then delete, let the judges not. As an English judge, he'd be very angry to even ask him about it, let alone lay down his property card to the public. But of course that's what we need right now, that these are public expectations, but come on, this is a pointless norm, and ultimately, it's unfair with other officials. It's a senseless norm unless those cards are attached to the public. Then I say let it all go away so we can at least be consistent. This is otherwise the case in our proposal, in the SDP's Proposal for a Law on Courts, because that is also the point of getting the public to know, informed, and there is a public court that is most important because ultimately no body or president of the Court can worry or is invited to discuss it. And once again, I stress such a norm is ultimately pointless. What seems to me to be a good norm, which is precisely in spite of the declared principle of the immutability of a judge that it cannot, it is one of the fundamental principles of free justice that a judge without his own consent cannot be moved to another court, but here and precisely because of such a situation that some courts, although very close to one another, are overly burdened, some are less burdened, so that there is such an explicit norm which does not touch this principle, which is being added to the judiciary. These other norms that are now taxing as for example. clarifies and clarifies the situation as regards the very opinions to be asked by the Minister of Justice whether a general session of the Supreme Court, whether for all candidates or only for the candidate for president, is now resolved in a transparent manner and has nothing to add to it. Once upon a time, such norms were unnecessary when the law was really interpreted in its spirit, but today it seems laws, and even those who are related to courts, are more like picture books, so every movement seems to be particularly clear, it means something that testifies that the resistances to judicial reform are large and powerful in the system itself. Therefore, such changes, which explain some controversial situations that should not be controversial, but which are controversial, remain, however, although only 6 months after the entry into force of the law is re-changed, and this law remains in certain norms, and those that took place just in the last amendment in December 2005 are of such nature that they are anti-constitutional. He's still acting on it, which is exactly what it's all about. That the minister has the power to bring the courts together himself, to establish them or to abolish them. It is the authority that has never, in any system, had a minister or had them in our legal system and we have just submitted a request for an assessment of the constitutionality of these standards on behalf of the SDP club. The law is perfectly clear and existing on the area, the courts' seats that the court can be established or can be abolished only by law. You have the majority and then you make whatever you want, and that's your responsibility, but that kind of authority doesn't belong to a minister, nor can it belong to him as part of our constitutional and positive legal solution. Therefore, such a provision in the existing law is unfortunately a norm which, even now, does not change this proposal against what will happen with these acts because we already have a situation that some of the criminal courts are attached to the municipal court and what the consequences of this will only be seen. So here's another appeal that you don't say we didn't know, as we appealed, and that's a very clear situation that judges don't name themselves based on competitions but ads, you knew that, and then, we specifically warned that, so if there could be some kind of mistake, some lapus chalami, here now you have no right to call it because you've been warned in time. And one more thing, another anti-constitutional norm that is really in the eyes is this proposal of the Law, not with a proposal but with an existing law which does not change this proposal, which was also needed to change, in the SDP proposal, in this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, which is that this Law determines what the Constitutional Court will do please nicely. It is such a big mistake that is in the eyes of course and in the whole of the public, not to mention the expert public, and not to mention the judges of the Constitutional Court whose work is therefore prescribed by the Constitution, the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, their Rules of Procedure, but by no means by the Law on Courts, and there you still have a norm that has not changed. This is why the applicant still has time to fix this, to intervene twice in this sense by removing the anti-constitutional system, but also to trace the meaning of these cards and depending on how the SDP club will plead according to this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71527	Thank you. For the club HNS, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71528	Thank you, Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Unfortunately, after six months there is a technical one, I can say the fire law freely, there are things that have not been accepted in the proposal that we have adopted six months ago and are now being corrected. It wouldn't be such a terrible thing if those mistakes that are now being corrected weren't in that discussion, in that debate a lot of words from different sides and professional and laymanic, however, the promoter obviously stubbornly insists on his concept, regardless of what they probably can't believe that he doesn't realize that things are illogical and actually impossible. In particular, it concerns the property cards of judges, so a man should not be particularly smart or a great lawyer to find it perfectly impossible that one category of judges who are now employed must give the property card, another category of judges those who accidentally employed six months ago do not have to give the property card. It's not some big brain, it's common sense. It is similar and the situation around membership in the council, it was so clear that actually after the first remark it should have been clear and loud and polite to say you have the right, there we have made a mistake, we will fix it immediately and we will not at least have any more problems with those provisions, but it did not happen. What the Club of the Croatian People's Party and I personally hope in these amendments and additions to the Law on Courts that comes at any time will be the words of working-law courts or at least the obligation of courts to organise and establish working-law departments. According to statistics, there are no major violations of workers' rights in Croatia. State attorney takes 250 charges a year, out of those 250 120 rejects, 120 send to the procedure, the court rejects half of it, releases half of it. That half of the half that remained fines are mostly suspended, possibly by fine and at the end of the ballad after two years, for two years I have statistics, for two years one person will be punished by prison for breaking Article 114. A criminal law that speaks of violations of the right to work. We are convinced that the constitution of courts that would guarantee that these proceedings would be carried out quickly, spotlessly and without the influence of any interested party, therefore justly or at least the departments of regular courts, so that such a move would not double the number of cases that would be found before such courts, but at the very least substitute them. It is absolutely certain that the number of 250 violations of the right to work in the Republic of Croatia is not real and does not represent God knows what. But that didn't happen, so I guess the Proposer knows why he doesn't need it and whose interests are protected by legal proposals. These are obviously not the interests of workers in Croatia. Otherwise, all that is proposed in the very text of the law is good, some specific remarks cannot be made there. In fact, the distribution of judges to those courts where there is no such high pressure may in some way affect the independence of the judge and his behaviour, but the matter is obviously inevitable because otherwise all these huge lags cannot be solved. This is one of the small steps in solving the backlogs, and there is a perfectly safe proposal for a good solution. The property card of all judges is obviously inevitable, especially in light of the fact that Amnesty International Court is on that corruption list at the top. Such a legal provision, especially if these property cards will be public because I don't see why other government officials' cards would be public and these secrets, we don't see any reason in HNS. Therefore, if these cards are made public they will certainly have a positive impact on the credibility of the courts and on increasing citizens' confidence in the objectivity and integrity of the functioning of the judicial system. Among other things, the introduction of a property card for judges and the discussions we have on property cards, property censorship and in some other laws clearly tell us that we will soon have to deal with the issue of introducing property cards for Croatian citizens. The tax ejaculation that is happening in Croatia is certainly sufficient reason for legislators, i.e. The government decides on such a step. This way, by acting from one segment of society to another, I do not think the matter will be resolved, it will be necessary to make some general move where the property of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia would actually be registered, in which case, of course, these cards cannot be public for all citizens but only for those who are engaged in public functions but the state should have records of the property and of the property it has so that the organisation and functioning of the rule of law can be done as they wish and as we imagine it can actually be carried out to the end. Of course, in this introduction of the property card, there are dangers in the judges, and probably that's why it hasn't happened before. The judges, however, are in one specific position, especially because by force of opportunity and by force of work they must work with persons on the other side of the law and the public of their property, addresses etc. It can certainly pose a danger but I am convinced that the state can find mechanisms to protect them in that situation. Anything else to say than that this bill is disappointingly good. Everything inside is fine and there's no reason for any of us to take it. It's not right what's not in there and it's supposed to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71529	Thank you. Club of HSP MPs, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71530	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, the Secretary of State! I must remind myself of how and in what way it has been passed by applying the Law on Courts. In that time, the minister was Mrs Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, and I'm sorry she's not here today. All these things about this amendment that we are discussing today we all talked more or less about in the first reading when this law was passed on to the courts and then there was an interesting situation that the former Minister of Justice did not accept any remarks from clubs or from any representatives or even from the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. And then the variant happened that she had to submit in the end the amendments herself to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and yet what was contained here was not accepted. And so, all of us who discussed these changes at the time, we pointed out how it was possible to introduce a property card only for those who would be named, what about those before, and that's a normal situation. But she wouldn't accept it. As this same situation has been warned, we have already been appointed by the Judicial Council and that this provision that the president is in a position will not be applied because the judges are already in office. And what all this is saying is that we could already have this in our legislation and now there are polls on how, for example, the former minister of justice was the best minister of justice in Croatia and everything else, and that is why I have to remind myself of the situation that happened when we had laws in the area of justice was always as different as it was with this Law on Courts. That's what your waist was doing. So yours is just to raise your hands and vote. That was the situation, and unfortunately, we had to waste time. It took six months, and that means this little weird situation because the HSP Club praises this bill and the Croatian Party's Club of Rights will support this bill. But I say we must learn that when we speak, I speak for the Croatian Party's Club of Rights, mainly when it comes to the laws that go into two readings, meaning in the regular procedure we always use the opportunity in the first reading to make constructive proposals in terms of improving the legal text relating to the application and implementation itself and then if it is not accepted, if this is the final proposal normally that anyone who is as smart as this case was and therefore we have not voted. Unlike many others, we did not vote on this Law on Courts because we were talking about these 3, 4 things contained, which, not by the power of argument, but by the power of the former minister and government, refused. Now for this, this interesting part of the stand for rest means Article 105 in, this provision is also put in place for the President of the National Election Commission. So if the judge is elected to his term of office for the time being. And that is what is normally said in terms of both constitutional rights and protection, and here I keep pointing out that one example which is unfortunately known in legal practice, which means that not everyone is equal before the Constitution. For example, an example of an active military person can neither run in the elections, and if it is run afterwards, it does not have the right to return to the armed forces while in all other cases we also allow judges of various other officials to have the benefit that his mandate will be during the course of his duties in office. We know for ourselves what the situation was and the situation here with the MPs until it was this last novel. So he had no right to go back to the jobs he had previously handled. There is no now according to this last amendment and supplement but has the right to return to, depending already, the state firm or where it came from but the question which part, to which jobs and will it be deployed at all? As long as it means here it always tries to create certain circles like the judges of convenience here. And besides, on behalf of the Croatian Party Club, why would the president of the National Election Commission be a judge in the first place? Why would he even be a judge? It's about the law that she's 12 years old, isn't it? That he's a graduate lawyer and that he rules the matter of electoral legislation. And I can tell you that a far greater number of other lawyers than one judge can, especially if it's about a judge who has a specialty, and each one has a specialty on his part if it's about the County Court, if it's about the Supreme Court. So it can be far less familiar with electoral legislation and theory and practice than, say, a lawyer who works in the state administration or lawyers anywhere else. Here, thank you very much. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71531	Thank you. Dear Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71532	Thank you, Mr. President. So here is the final draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Courts. I will, of course, also say that absolutely all these provisions and all the solutions that we have in the proposed law should be supported because they are quality, quality legal solutions. The applicable Law on Courts, as we all know it, was adopted in the regular parliamentary procedure at the end of 2005 and entered into force on 29 December 2005. However, certain difficulties have also been identified in practice or in its application. But more in the sense of the standards themselves. Therefore, the legal rules that should have been complemented in a certain sense were clarified, of course by considering their application or interpretation. In this respect, the proposed amendments and I think that this should be particularly highlighted or underlined regarding the following matters. First, it is the responsibility of judges to subsidise data on their assets. So-called Introducing property cards for all judges as judicial officials. An acceptable absolute solution, because what we had in the current, current law, which was laid down only by the new judges when they entered into office, so they substituted property cards. This is indeed a better solution because it includes all the judicial officials, all the judges and, in fact, prescribes a legal obligation to introduce property cards for all judges regardless of when they have entered judicial duty. The second major amendment proposed concerns Article 39. The Law on Courts which proposes a solution for the new Judicial Council to be established under the provisions of this Law within 4 months of the date of entry into force of this Act. We know what difficulties have arisen in this regard in practice, and I think this is an absolutely acceptable logical solution that is now proposed. Furthermore, it has proved true that a period of 6 months in which the Minister of Justice may appoint the term of office of the President of the Court is too short. Not in one of the situations in practice has shown this in this observed time period as such and in fact the proposed amendments foresee the abolition of that legal period. It's also a good legal solution. Finally, the proposed amendments are also proposed to extend the circle of officials covered by the provision of Article 105. The Law on Courts as the decision so far provides that if a judge is firstly appointed by the Minister of Justice, then the State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, the Judge of the International Court or of any other duty in international courts, in all these situations, the judicial duty shall be atone for the duties of which he is appointed. The proposed amendments therefore extend this circle, and in such a way that the same provision also applies to situations where the judge is eventually elected president of the National Election Commission. Finally, the amendments themselves should also be accompanied by the one relating to the provisional reference of judges to work in another court of the same degree. At the request of the President of the Supreme Court, such a reference may now be made to a court up to 50 kilometers from the court where the judge is acting in this capacity. In this place, however, attention may need to be drawn in this regard, given that it is a temporary reference of a judge to a court. Therefore, in a sense of a temporary solution, and there is no existing proposal that this deadline should be decided in my opinion as well as the opinion of a colleague with whom I have spoken should indeed be limited. I think quite, quite a legal solution would be if it were a two-year term. And therefore, in spite of all these remarks that we have heard so far, they were not really referred to as observations in the measure of things, in the heart of the legal solutions, but were observations at the level which was proposed as soon as possible in which context. Should have been in the parliamentary procedure now, sooner or later. My personal opinion is indeed such that it absolutely does not matter because the quality of the proposed law or legal solutions that we are discussing here is important. All these offered solutions that we are discussing today are really good quality. It will improve the important solutions of the Law on Courts, and as we had the opportunity to hear this is indeed one of the most important, roof, key law in terms of the functioning of the judiciary and every shift in the quality sense of us I think we should all rejoice. Because after the adoption of this law, after the entry into force of this law, all these controversial situations or ambiguities in the application of the law will be removed, and in that sense I am absolutely in favour of the amendment and additions of the Law on Courts, because indeed those norms that were not let's say crystal clear or which did not live up in their practice of the very entry into force of this law will improve the situation or the normative situation in areas which regulate those norms. Finally, I absolutely support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71533	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71534	Dear Mr. President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. This is another one in a series of amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements which confirms that we are indeed a Parliament of dynamic work that coordinates very quickly all the things that happen in life. We don't waste much time, but we're removing those ambiguities or doubts that have arisen in practice. So, first of all, I point out that one question that is also very common in practice and what is considered and how long it takes for the person who passed the judicial exam to obtain the possibility of appointing or electing a judge. So it's very clear, the trainee in court, the state's attorney's office, the public-book office or the law firm's internship after a legal examination is considered to be working on other legal matters. In addition, in terms of efficiency and speed on the resolution of the proposed cases and newspapers which were indeed to be passed and as soon as possible, the judge may be temporarily referred to the work at the second court of the same degree and up to 50km away at the request of the President of the Supreme Court. The only thing you might need to think about is whether in practice or here and in a provision that means if he is from one place and the court seats are referred to in the second place, the seat of the second court of the same degree if he is on the islands. Because 50 kilometers on land is very simple. But when you need to sit in a ferry and travel daily, for example, from Split to Supetar where there is a smaller distance then there are technical difficulties around transportation and around stay. It can also happen at the Municipal Court in Stari Grad on the island of Hvar. Therefore, these island specificities should at least be taken into account while I know that in the practice of these dilemmas there is no since fellow judges are always ready to respond to the request of the President of the Supreme Court. Of course, the proposal of some other applicants also confirmed that this bill must be adopted, as it has been found that we are all slowly taking responsibility for our own development and for the adoption of important laws and regulations. Very clear deadlines, 4 months from the day of entry into force, so three months from the entry into force of this law are very clear and precise. Of course, this should also be considered to continue with this practice as soon as the conditions for and other possible changes that are in practice dubious or not complete are met. This approach should be removed in the future. Therefore, this bill should be supported and adopted as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71535	Thank you. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71536	Thank you, Mr. President. Not to repeat what I said on behalf of the SDP Club. I would like to draw attention to just one provision, which is why today the Committee on Elections and Appoints has annulled a public call to fill the president from the State Election Commission. Let us remember the reason why this law was passed on to a permanent body. Our main point of guidance was to all of us and to the threshold of the request of the judicial authority, free us from this business. Now what's going on and what I'd say about this proposal is we're buying these things that are not good for both the judiciary and the State Election Commission. Namely, this norm that a judge can freeze his duty was introduced in the 1990s, at the end of the 1990s, to the initiative of then-Minister Later President of the Supreme Court Mr. Ivica Crnić, who saw that the ministry really needed the help of judges. She's valuable, but only to the Justice Department. Often in some operational matters, and now I don't list anything that's so clear to all of us and to those who aren't familiar with that matter in detail. So there's nothing special to explain or add. And please, the National Election Commission has as many candidates as you want and professional people. Is it necessary for us to fill the State Election Commission with judges who have the basic task of judging and for which we have established this special body in order to free them, to free them from these duties and it is not bad to have a judge who was once a judge? But not the person who will freeze for 8 years will not work, and he will be in this place and will then return to his permanent judging post that cannot be filled in at all times because the ad is only being called for a vacant seat. That place is occupied, and he's gone, and objects are piling up. Are we going to be accomplices to that? So we have no objection to the State Election Commission and judges no longer wanting to judge, but they have valuable knowledge and experiences that are uncontestable. And the reputation of impartiality. But once again, I draw attention to the meaning of this whole body that we've established to relieve the judges in what situation, when they're hired a month or two every four years or there and there every other year. And here for eight years we've been letting the judge build up his cases, that is, his other colleagues do the job and deal with his cases. So let's think about it. And here, I missed it a little bit because I was talking about some other stuff on behalf of the SDP club. We can't allow it just for the sake of a judicial authority, but not as a government, but for the citizens. Because the judges have to judge. And I'm saying if this standard is an exception for the Justice Department that has been here for 10 years, we can't let that happen again with the State Election Commission. Because that's where I say the candidate has, and I welcome the judges, but they can't at that time in this time reform of the judiciary of unsolved cases. So what would people tell us, what would the citizens tell us? So, the judges welcome you here, but then you're no longer judges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71537	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71538	Well, the Honorable President is right about a distinguished colleague. I just have to remind myself of the part that the former president of the State Election Commission when he said there should be a Law on the State Election Commission that must be a professional body he was just saying that one of the reasons why it is not effective and up-to-date of the courts and because judges are engaged in elections in various election committees, either from the level of municipalities, cities. Well, then he said he had the whole situation. And now we haven't seen anything happen significantly in that while going to this part of professionalism. And that is why there is no room for this provision that his mandate will rest. Why wouldn't he be on the market like everyone else? Watch out, he, so in those eight years he's going to the lagoon. Eight years of ladin, he pays more than he's got there. We know what the situation is going to be, it's going to be 5 choices, this place won't be able to fill, the objects will stand. So let it have the same situation as the representatives of the Croatian Parliament, such as active military personnel and all other normal Croatian citizens. There is no reason for these benefits, mainly because of what I see now the contest will be new for selecting the president of the State Election Commission. Therefore, there will be no Mr. Ranko Marian who did this fact, that provision was. Let them do their job. That's why they called and ran for judge. Then let them do their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71539	Replicate response, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71540	Well, you've done a good job of apostropheing this fellow. And that's what I pointed out myself that this particular proposal was being made by the judicial authority, that they're not asking yesterday and this authority. They've been looking for it before. And here I welcome what this government has done. But I'm saying, the main motive was that the judges were just about to dissipate this duty and join their main business. And now they'd please me for eight years if they hadn't tried, to return to their seat. Eight years a judge who didn't judge. Would you like such a person to judge you in your cases? And besides the express norms, the judge has a duty to permanently educate himself. And a whole series of duties they have on personal construction, education, education. Judges, how long will he be familiar with the norms? Well, laws change all the time. They're using them. And here's his job to make a completely different nature. And I'm saying, it would still make sense if there weren't any delays in the case. So let's let it go, there's not so much work as a judge, then let it go for a little eight years somewhere else. But in a time when there is such an inflow and this inflow is not reduced and we have a battle with these unsolved objects where we must all be unanimous about it if we think this sort of thing would be inadmissible.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71541	Dear Representative, Vice-President of the House Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71542	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. I have to object again to this law for an emergency procedure. It is simply these issues that are listed in an explanation for the need for an emergency procedure that is important that they do not stand. Among other things, it is stated that it is a matter of reporting the property of judges, etc. I would like to remind myself that, even under the current law, judges, especially those who are new, who are entering a judicial duty should have reported the property and had to report the property, and apparently it was the legislator's intention at the time that those who have become judges did not have to report the property. And now that they've finally realized complete illogicality and that's the situation they're proposing right now. But that's not all the reason for it to be an emergency procedure. This law should have been put in the regular procedure. That's the first one. The other thing I would like to point out is actually questions and formal, as well as content-law applications. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: It is said that the judge, or president of the Supreme Court, can place a judge in another court for settlement of the case if that distance of the court is not more than 50 kilometers away. But what's the reason for that? If the court has more judges than cases that should be burdened. So now we have a very interesting situation. What will happen to a court with more judges than cases so that I can evenly burden myself against the average burden of all other judges, and there is no need to place such a judge within 50 kilometers of another court. Will the procedure then be initiated to cancel his duty because of the technological surplus? Or not? Of course he won't, because he chooses for life. So I ask myself a question, if someone chooses for life, if they accept the function, honor those functions, because the judicial duty is not only a duty but also an honor, then the rule should be introduced that regardless of the distance it can be moved, but of course it follows itself that he needs temporary accommodation, that he should be provided with travel expenses, that he should be provided with a living room, etc., etc., etc. and all that follows. There is no other way to justify the situation so that someone can work without having to work. And he's only getting paid for being appointed to office. It can't be. I object to Article 2. I think we should completely reevaluate it and solve it differently in that context. Now, this is a completely unacceptable solution for me, as set out in Article 3, which is based on the fact that the judge can be appointed to the State Election Commission and appointed to him by the judge or judge's office while elected to this Electoral Commission. First of course, it would be desirable for the State Election Commission to be persons who can interpret and enforce the laws according to it and the judge, but it is quite inappropriate to go in advance knowingly with a duty to appoint someone who will be at peace for 8 years in order to carry out this duty, at the same time aware of the fact that we have a lag behind, a huge number of cases in judicial activity and that in a situation like this, it is also possible to use this judge far better to carry out his... And I don't think this question should be accepted. [[You don't understand.]] The fourth point is related to Article 6 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. When the President of the Court is relieved, then it comes to the act of power, not the administrative act. You see, I don't represent such a thesis. I believe that if such duties are resolved, because of this duty, that is to say, the duties and the right to act as administrative act and if they are formal reasons or material injury to material legal reasons in the settlement of the President of the Court should be allowed to lead the dispute. ... It is. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] If it wasn't an administrative act, he couldn't run an administrative dispute. ... The administrative procedure, but I want him here to have the possibility of a administrative dispute. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And in such a situation should go, it's mostly a bad solution when we say by law that something that by nature things are an administrative act because it's a trio of power, then we say it's not an administrative act now, it's an act of government. In addition, I personally think that this will lead to a constitutional dispute to prove that it is an administrative act, not an act of government, as has been demonstrated in cases of executive power. And that's why I think it would be wise to immediately solve it this way, and not actually try to introduce one form of will and self-discipline or judge discipline both. So not only disciplines by one who can resolve but also self-discipline because actually the President of the Court has to act with care that someone can act as an act of authority to resolve it is number one, and number two, an additional question opens up. And where is now the issue of equality of certain forms of government and in which segment is the judicial authority being expressed here or in which respect is the executive power. That is why I feel that this question should be resolved differently. And in this last fifth remark, I must particularly show satisfaction, that finally the Proposer realized that, in fact, according to the Law on Courts, all judges, regardless of when they were elected, had become life-longers, if we were to bring ourselves first and foremost not into the situation that all three forms of power were equal but that the public had the possibility of public control of all three forms of government and in this respect the judicial authority should not and should not be in any situation in order to be in a more favourable situation and at least within the judicial authority itself, that one category of judges, given the time when they became judges in relation to the time of law and its application to others, had to be reported and the others did not have to report. It is a complete inequality of actually judges before the law and I am glad that this issue is corrected and in this respect I support this part. I believe that no matter how many articles there are, this law should still be delayed. It should still be the first reading. This question, like, I repeat questions about the distance of judges and more than 50 kilometers away, needs to be further considered in terms of work or the question of what about those who will receive wages and who have no job, not by their own free will, not by their own guilt, because there are no objects, enough... cases. The second question of what happens to judges and why they stay in office if elected to the State Election Commission, they then become state officials, and they need to stop the judge's mandate, they can compete again if it... it is the second question and the third question of this administrative act rather than the act of power. I think it deserves to have this law debated once more and to come to another reading, and actually to turn the final proposal, i.e. the emergency procedure into the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71543	Final review, State Secretary Snježana Bagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71544	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. As a proposer, I'm in a bit of a weird situation. It is a rare situation when the law in its contents, in its reach, assesses good and that is good, although some have said that it may be disappointingly good. But it's not good, and that's what we said here in the opening statement why it even appears with this proposal to amend and supplement the law after only six months. But yet I think there's a consensus here that when something needs to be changed then it's necessary to do it as soon as possible and remove those difficulties that might arise in practice. It is often said that the profession has been done by law, it should be consulted, but sometimes the profession can be wrong on the one hand, on the other hand, there may be certain interests in the profession, and then only in the application and practice of this law is shown in fact what might have been wanted when in the best interest of referring to professional motives something was proposed. This means that sometimes we, too, the Government as a Proposer, and even this High House had to look more at what professional motives are. But indeed, as has already been said here, here are removing some of the doubts and difficulties that have arisen in the application of this law, they primarily refer to what was needed and what was intensities on property cards, reporting the property of judges as judicial officials, so those who are already... a duty before the entry into force of this new Law on Courts at the end of December of last year and that is something which is particularly a valid state reason. It seems to me that this law goes according to emergency procedures. Why? Because the public also has the right to know about the property of judges who are judicial officials, so in this direction they must not differ from other officials, and that is an anti-corruption measure that needs to be presented publicly in order to remove everything and thus some notions and perceptions of possible corruption. The second provision that has now instigated the interest rightly referred to the possible standstill of the judicial duty if the person who will possibly answer the call, to a public call for the President of the State Election Commission, is a judge. Now the reasons are, of course, I can interpret for and against. There were arguments here that it was the judge's objection to disbanding and that the judges were no longer participating in the elections. I must say as someone who personally participated in his judicial mandate in the work of election committees that it is a really difficult job and that it takes away the judges a lot of time. And it's not just one judge. We are talking about elections at the state level, for the Parliament, we are talking about local elections, we are talking about presidential elections. There are judges, municipal, county courts and the Supreme Court. We don't have judges for at least two months, a large number of judges, and that's a huge engagement that has had a direct effect on discharging judges' work. In a series of measures taken, it is clear that the burden of the court or judges is not the same. And this measure that is now proposed up to 50 kilometers to be directed is one measure that goes in that direction. However, unlike these measures, the fact that someone is reporting to the President of the State Election Commission if he is a judge and that his judicial standing rests on him for an 8-year term, I think it is necessary to interpret positively and see on the positive side. Why? Because by doing so, if any of the judges are at all determined to do so, we hope that the person who has already had that experience and has experience, knowledge, it is special, therefore, some professional knowledge and experience needed to act as president of the National Election Commission. Because this is a new function, a new composition. I'm not talking about being a judge right now, I'm not talking about coefficients. However, this is a great responsibility for those who will sit there, although for 8 years and who will be members, and in particular be presidents of the State Election Commission. So, this is the person we all need to advocate that with our professional habitat, dignity, and experience, which in this case are judges, eventually occurs and competes for the post of president. He'll leave a chance to come back later. The fact that only 1 judge will eventually be appointed as President of the Court will in itself not have a direct impact on what is really a series of measures to be taken in the judiciary in order to further halt the trend of increasing the case. In fact, the inflow of the case is increasing, but this year is the first year where we recorded the drop in the case and on municipal courts by 15%, and in total, 8%. In the debate also there were words not directly on the text of these amendments and additions to the Law but on the amendments and additions to the Law proposed by the SDP representative club. They relate to the transitional and final provisions of this Act, to the provision of Article 54, which is proposed as a possibility that, following the decision of the Minister of Justice and, in the opinion of the General Session of the Supreme Court, one or more infringements may be brought together with the municipal court. In fact, let me just remind you that this House of the High in the debate has adopted the Strategy for Justice Reform. One of the really strategic measures that is a matter of one future is the reflection of the future network of courts in Croatia, which we will have the number of courts and what kind of ones we will have. Of course, thorough and serious analysis needs to be preceded. They may include creation in a small example and in a small form in the practice of possible solutions and therefore is proposed as a transitional solution, as a pilot solution possible merger. So far, this has been done and will be done most likely only in 8 courts, or 8 violations of municipal courts. So it's not about abolishing courts, it's really about setting up courts and abolishing courts can only go by law, but this is a way to come up with actually, that we all decide together through practical experiences that legal solutions will be the best in practice. The second situation is also an example relating to a transitional and final provision on who is in charge of decision-making within a reasonable period of time. In fact, you know that until the entry into force of this Act on whether a particular procedure is being resolved, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia has decided within a reasonable period of time. This Law has put this into the jurisdiction of regular courts, county courts more precisely and amendments and additions, i.e. the Law on Courts, its transitional and final decisions, is not prescribed and no new jurisdiction or participatory is determined in the Constitutional Court. It shall be determined that what the Constitutional Court has jurisdiction under Article 63 and what has been brought to the Constitutional Court until the date of entry into force of the Law on Courts should be completed and settled before that court as a competent court. However, the promoter himself said a constitutionality and legality assessment procedure has been launched, so the Constitutional Court will likely make its decision, and the government as a proposer will be obliged to respect the Constitutional Court's decision. So much for this bill of law. Of course, the Government will further consider all these remarks and proposals that have now been made, which have been warned before the final adoption of the text of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71545	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71546	Well, it's not true what the state secretary's colleague said that the solution in Article 3 is good, then it's only partially stated, that's not true. It is said that the experience of a judge for the President of the Election Commission is precious, that is correct, but it is incorrect that this second that it is positive that its place is vacant and that its status rests. This is not good because the cases are being accumulated, because the cases in one court are being determined by the number of cases, or judges by the number of cases, because it is not correct for people to wait 8 years until that president or member returns. That is, that other colleagues handle his cases. That's not fair.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71547	If something is right and good, it doesn't mean it's incorrect, it's not right and it's wrong. That doesn't mean exactly or incorrectly. ... I, fortunately, listen very carefully to what you say, and it is necessary to distinguish not well and well from incorrect and accurate. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Factial claims. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts. It was an emergency procedure, according to proposals from the debate. I am voting for the next conclusion on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts with the Final Proposal of the Law. A debate was held in the first reading. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 103 votes for, one abstention and one against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71550	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. Let me briefly explain to you the final proposal of the Law on the Education and Education Agency. First of all, I want to thank you all for the debate in the first reading and for the suggestions you made to correct this Law. We did it and let me say it for a little while. So we first completed the introductory explanation of what you were looking for and we think it's complete now, to touch all the articles that are listed here. Secondly, it is said to be clear where the branches of the Education and Education Agency are located, we have also done so. You suggested that the administrative council be appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, not by the minister as it stood, and that is now in the final draft of the law. Furthermore, we have accepted your proposal that the Director's ingenuity also belongs to a decision on the establishment and termination of a working relationship, as is the case with the Law on Fundamental and Medium Education. Furthermore, it was also accepted to state exactly what conditions the director, assistant director, adviser and senior adviser must meet. That's what we did. I would especially like to point out here that for the terms of counselling, we have put 3 years less than before, 5 years ago and 7 years ago for senior advisors, so we hold that we will get young experts in this institution who will support the system of education and education. Furthermore, we've defined... professional supervision of the Agency's work since this has not been defined. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, we accepted your suggestion to open a public tender in the daily press for the reception of workers, and we removed that provision that speaks of a conflict of interest, which is related to the authorship of textbooks, since in the meantime the Law on textbooks is passed where this is defined, there is no need to redefine it also in the Law on the Education and Education Agency. We have accepted most of your remarks, thus significantly improving this final bill and I believe that the law for all clubs is now acceptable and I hope that you will accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71551	Thank you. Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Ivanka Roksandić... The board. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71552	Thank you, Mr. President, Secretary of State, assistant, I apologize to the Deputy Prime Minister and Secretary of State. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture discussed the final proposal of the Law on the Education and Education Agency at its 25th session on 11 July this year. The Committee discussed the issue as a home working body, the opening statement was given by a proposing representative and the Committee established the following. The debate found that a number of opinions and views of this Committee were adopted as well as other participants in the debate in the first reading of the Bill proposal, enabling the appropriate establishment of the Education and Education Agency on the legal and constitutional basis. The proposal for a more appropriate explanation of the purpose of the reorganisation is welcomed by the termination of the work of the Institute for Education and Education of the Republic of Croatia's Education and Education Agency, indicating in particular the need to retain some of the powers of the one relating to professional supervision and in relation to that area within the Educational Agency. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously concluded: it is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on the Education and Education Agency in the form proposed by the proposings.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71553	Thank you very much. Stay, please, right now. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71554	Thank you, Mr. President, Deputy Prime Minister, State Secretary and Assistant. Here is the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community discussed the Final Proposal of the Law on the Education and Education Agency and will support the adoption of this Law as we have already stated in the first reading Croatia has launched a series of changes in the system of education and education, in 2005 a strategic development document, development plan, education and education from 2005 to 2010 has been introduced and the HNOS not to repeat now have been established and launched a whole series of reforms of vocational education, new agencies have been established, the Professional Education Agency, the National Centre for External Evaluation. He was also in preparation for his first reading and the Law on the Professional Education Agency. A whole series of changes in education have been launched, so it is normal for us to have the final form of another legal proposal that is also on the trail of changes in the system of education. The Agency for Education and Education is a substitute for the current institution of the Institute of Education, which was founded in 2002. Until the establishment of 2002 as an independent institution he was part of the Ministry of Education and Sports. By establishing new agencies that I have now and already listed not to repeat, the Institute loses some of its competences and activities in accordance with the newly created institutions. Certainly, the new objectives in education and current needs in the education system set out in the development plan for education and education systems from 2005 to 2010 cannot be followed by the current Institute of Education. For the development of curricula, so the objectives of the education of the Republic of Croatia are the content of certain teaching subjects, standards, teaching methods, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. So far, this has not been in the jurisdiction of the Institute, so these are all reasons for the establishment of a new agency whose activity will be in line with the requirements and recommendations of the European Union, i.e. The decentralisation of the activities of public institutions dealing with education and education, and the bill also introduces new names that are in line with European processes. It is good that after the first reading, the promoter accepted some good solutions compared to those proposed in the first reading. It is thus accepted that Article 8(2) of the Law lays down the places where branches held by the agencies are located for now in Split, Osijek and Rijeka, but also leaves the possibility of setting up new branches in other cities. It is also prescribed that the government appoints and resolves members of the board of directors on a proposal from the ministry that has been reduced, so I apologize, thus reducing the power of the minister himself, but for the sake of transparency of the same solutions it is published in the "National Journal", so it will be available to all. In the final draft of the law, the Proposer also accepted the observation of the conditions to be met by the Director, Assistant Director, Counselor and Senior Counsellor, as it is better to establish the conditions already in the Law, because of the transparency of the general terms and conditions and that advisers and senior advisers establish a working relationship on the basis of a public tender published in the daily press. The Secretary of State himself said that it opens up the possibility of employment to young experts. Of course the agency is an independent facility. It also conducts supervision, the ministry is failing to monitor the legality of work and the expert oversight of the commission appointed by the minister in the first draft of the law has not been defined. It is important to point out that this bill accurately determines the responsibility of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports in relation to the Agency, to determine its independence and thus eliminates parallelism in the education and education system. Although it is in the light of the proposal for a law which has not been adopted that it is unnecessary to prescribe supervision of the implementation of the professional training carried out by other legal entities other than the Agency, we warn of very often unprofessional professional training by some entities, and we believe that the agency should pay particular attention to this issue in future work. Therefore, the establishment of an agency that will be adaptable to the needs of the development of the education system also builds on the legal possibility of the Agency's participation in the design, implementation, monitoring of standards and national curricula. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club will support the Final Proposal for a Law on the Education and Education Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71555	Thank you. SDP representative club, respected deputy president of Mato Arlovic's home. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71556	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, State Secretary! Let us begin our debate on behalf of the club for reasons to pass the law. And we have to say that most of the reasons set out in the reasons for the law being passed are acceptable and we believe that the reason and argument that led to the proposal of this new law and the replacement of the Agency's institutions are justified. For the sake of this example, we point out the need to complement, to clearly define the responsibility and activity of the Agency in accordance with the newly created institutions, and then to define the structure of the Institute Agency because of a higher level of operationality and adaptability to the needs of the Agency's activities, it is necessary to check the age conditions for advisers, more advisors, undefined competence of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports in relation to the Agency, it is necessary to legally address new names and processes resulting from the harmonisation of the Croatian education system, etc. between one and eight reasons for law-making. But what surprised us now when we read the text of the law in relation to the reasons that defend the need to pass this law, then suddenly you see that these twenty-eight articles have neither been arranged nor elaborated on these issues that are the reasons for the adoption of the law. And in this respect, what we have as a template is an unfinished act, an unfinished act from the aspect of the spirit that the law wants to achieve. That's the first thing we wanted to point out. The other thing that we wanted to point out is completely unacceptable, a little bit of the confusion that is present in this law, which often leads the agency to a situation on the one hand, that the institution, on the other hand, is the administrative organisation and on the third hand that the retailer is a small company, so for example, it is said that the director is a management and expert head of the agency. Imagine what kind of management body it is in terms of a former self-government socialist society or now the head of the administration in terms of a company operating an organisation financed from the state budget. It just doesn't work. It is an administrative organisation, and it is correct when it comes to the administrative organisation to which certain powers of the state administration are transferred, it is clear that in fact some of the issues which are wanted to be resolved here as the Agency's activity should be carried out as public authority. But they are not executed as such and therefore it is necessary to amend this law. After all, it can be voted upon, so when it is started to apply, it will be seen that it is inapplicable. Because why? If it's not public authority, which is why you'd actually have to comply with some teacher, school principal, etc. If the Agency does not do so as public authority, it does so as a business of business. In addition, the question with which school, with which teacher she will conclude a contract on management rather than a contract, rather than a public authority title. The third observation that we consider to be very serious is related to the agency's bodies. First, some articles complement each other and some are contradictory. For example, Article 10 of the Administrative Council states that it calls for the appointment of the Director of the Agency and, among other things, the Director shall appoint and resolve the Administrative Board. Then I guess it should be written in the jurisdiction of the same board of directors to call the competition and to carry out the procedure of appointment and resolution. So it just didn't end up harmonized. Furthermore, it is very interesting to address the issue of decision-making. Maybe they weren't even aware of it, and maybe they were, they actually accepted the model of qualified decision-making and started from all decisions and I don't see why all decisions of the administrative council should be made to the over-half majority of the total number of members. It says "The Governing Council decides most of the votes of the total number of members.". Now, whether that makes decisions or just decides whether it's a quorum or whether it's a decision. It's not clear, there's nowhere else to go after how you make your decisions and how that's a question. So you can interpret each other and I think you should because again it's also clear that it's impossible for a simple quorum and a simple majority to, say, appoint and resolve the director and adopt the statute. That just wouldn't work. So, you just have to do this question again, you can't leave it like this. It must be carried out where it is determined by a qualified majority, where it is necessary for the quorum qualified majority and must also be distinguished when the administrative council adopts acts by simple majority with a simple quorum. The fourth group of questions is only about the administrative council. First, it is interesting that the possible composition or structure of the possible composition of the Governing Council has not been established. It is said that the administrative council has six members and that has a president and six members, practically seven and is said to appoint them the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the minister. How? Following the invitation, the competition, there is none of it all and then the constitutional legal issue of Article 44 opens. The constitution which clearly and unequivocally states: "Every citizen of the Republic of Croatia has the right under equal conditions to participate in public affairs and be admitted to public service.". This agency shall carry out part of the public service in view of its activity and in view of the nature and purpose of its financing and in view of the function and supervision and control it carries out over the institutions of education and education and, of course, of the supervision and supervision carried out by the Ministry, the competent resolution ministry. It is obvious, therefore, that the Administrative Council should also be here and there must be at least an invitation ad if not something else. It should be stated from which members of the Governing Council, members of the Governing Council may and should be appointed. We have, of course, a special observation regarding the matter of counselors and senior advisers for 3 and 7 years, respectively. In fact, here the agency has knowingly avoided the application of the Law on Officials and Landowners, and has accepted that the Proposer proposes that this Law, Statutes and subsistence rules apply to them. It's as if it's a commercial company, not an institution, or as if it's not an agency that's actually a state organisation because it's funded from the budget. So it will happen, for example, that an adviser with three years of experience at the agency will have two and three times the salary of a consultant in the state administration doing the most complex work of this state administration. Or even more precisely as he will have the salary paid by a councilman in the state administration who is to supervise on behalf of the Ministry the legality of the work of that man who works in this agency. This is something that is completely unnatural and unacceptable, and therefore this law should be brought into line with the system, the legal system that needs to be resolved. I don't mind that law on officials and tenants and the Law on Official Salaries is changed and there is an increase in wages. To determine and so on, however, it is impossible, because of the law through this legislation, to play relations and to disrupt the complete system of values that are present in us, even though they are set up as they are now regardless of when and how this issue should be resolved. It is of course particularly interesting that speaking workers who are subject to this Act are found at the workplaces of the Institute of Education continue to work in those places until the work schedule established by the General Act of the Agency. Yeah, but you don't talk anywhere when and until the general act of the agency is to be brought in? Secondly, there is no question of what these general acts are, and among other things, it is likely that the Internal Affairs and Description Regulation and the List of Jobs and Jobs that should be in line with this law, what should be resolved, how should these issues be addressed? All this at the SDP counseling club is a little bit sad. We are happy that some of the remarks from the first reading are accepted, incorporated into the law, but they are not close enough to give us a guarantee that this law will be easily implemented, efficient and that it will ensure what we want with the agency to be formed, achieve in this domain and therefore we will not be able to vote for this law. We won't mind. We will be abstentioned for a simple reason because we cannot accept responsibility for such a law which is virtually inconclusive and unspeakable for the reasons of its indeterminateness should be completed so that it can be prepared for the next school year or for the next time it comes. That's why I say we'll be restrained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71557	Thank you. Honorable representative of Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71558	Thank you very much. Mr. President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues here I have promised the President that in my debate I will be very brief and indeed stick to it. The adoption of this Act should be approachable with responsibility as it encroachs into a very important area, and I am thinking first of all of the fact that the Agency is involved in the development, development and implementation of the national "curiculum". As a legal follower of the Education and Education Agency, the Agency should correct the shortcomings and irregularities that have arisen in the work of the Institute, not create new problems. I find it unacceptable that no objection to Article 13(3) has been observed and that the number of assistant directors of the Agency should nevertheless be limited to one reasonable number acceptable to all. Article 15 already leaves the possibility of setting up expert and advisory bodies in accordance with the Statute without limitation. Since there are no restrictions in the law on the establishment of these expert and advisory bodies, neither the number of assistant directors leaves room for the accumulation of the state administration and a significant increase in the estimated costs, such as those of the UK agencies. I don't mean any particular British agency, but the agency in general. It is there that costs and the number of employees are constantly increasing not for real needs in the country but for the interests of the agencies themselves. In fact, I believe that this Law does not adequately regulate the activity and structure of the Agency but will first depend on the Statute that has yet to be adopted. It will actually depend on the direction in which the implementation of this Act will take place, or how the Agency will live as a public institution in the interest of all participants in the educational system. And to return to Article 9 paragraph 5 for a moment where it stands that the President and members of the Governing Council shall be appointed by the Government on a proposal from the Minister. I believe it is necessary to add that members of the Governing Council should meet the conditions for advisers and the President of the Administrative Council shall be subject to conditions for senior advisors in accordance with Articles 3 and 4 of this Act. This would ensure that members of the Council are indeed experts in the field of education and education, and at last who better than those who are really addressed to this area will adopt the statutes of the Agency and then the annual work plans. As I have said before about the Statute and not so much about this Act will depend on the functioning of this agency, so it is the least that can be done to ensure that the laws of the Statute are of the order of the profession. I believe that these details should be completed, so I would like to join my colleague Arlovic and recommend that the Government do so either with its amendments or withdraw this Law for texting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71559	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Željir Janjic. Would you like some? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Law on the Education and Education Agency. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. 79 votes for, 15 abstentions, 2 against the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71562	Thank you very much. Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Representatives and Gentlemen Representatives. Here is a great pleasure for me to address this House of the High and to submit a report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers and members of their families in last 2005. It was, as you know, the first year of implementation of the new Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families, so I will briefly remind you of all the new provisions that have been incorporated into the new law and by which the new law of 2005 differs from the previous one. So what I can say very briefly, among other things, is that we have recently received and that I have also signed a review report for 2005. I am pleased to inform you that the 2005 audit report, which of course speaks primarily of how we implemented the law, how we spent budgets, or taxpayers' resources. This report is unconditional, so without any objections, excellent and I think that this information is extremely important for your assessment of this report that we have submitted to the Croatian Parliament. So, since 1 January 2005, it has been in force, a new law is being implemented. What is different from that is, among other things, the definition of the Croatian Homeland War defender, which includes other than members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and volunteers from the Homeland War, as well as members of the armed national protection teams and the Hos. Then, the time of participation in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia is determined, i.e. it has been recognised since 5 August 1990. until 30 June '96. A year. Then, under the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, training and preparation to go to the battlefield are considered, given the recognised status of HRVI on this basis. Then instead of saying, "the late Croatian defender from the Homeland War" the term "deadly injured Croatian defender" was introduced. Then a circle of dead persons was extended to members of fire squads, sailors, crew members, merchant navy, as well as to other persons who were killed by the authorities in the defense of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. This provision allows the recognition of the rights and civil protection members who have suffered both in the defence of Croatia and those who have performed intelligence in the defence function. The members of the family were then killed by members of the Croatian defenders, members of the family of the imprisoned or missing Croatian defenders and Croatian military disabled and Croatian war defenders from the Homeland War with at least 30% confirmed damage to the organism. Afterwards, all the dead Croatian defenders have the right to bury with military honor, and the ministry bears all the costs of the burial. The prisoners in enemy camps returned to the law of '96. that they have the status of a Croatian military disabled with at least a tenth group with 20% organ damage. Then, the pension allowance became an integral part of the pension. The peace is determined according to the prescribed table of bases. It is no longer determined and does not comply with the increase in salaries of active military personnel, and the disability pension under the new law is no longer related to HRVI status under Article 78 of the Law of 2000, as referred to in Article 78 of the 2001 Act. The Croatian defender from the Homeland War who has obtained the right to an age or disability pension under the Pension Insurance Act, which is less than a pension that would belong to him for 40 years. The personal point is increasing depending on the time spent in the Homeland War from 10 to 30%. A new institute of the lowest, or protected pensions for Croatian defenders was then introduced, which, according to general regulations, exercise the right to retire. However, they do not have years of training, or have no other conditions. So this minimum pension allows them to receive 45% of the average net salary of all employees in the Republic of Croatia. Then, I also highlight all those provisions of the law which specifically protect children of the dead Croatian defenders, so compliance with the Family Law, in this sense, for example for another year after schooling, have the right to retire, on a family pension if they are unemployed, which is in accordance with Article 210. Family law. Then, that foster children and stepdaughters have the right to a family disability during military service after their regular schooling, which began at the latest 12 months after their regular schooling. I also point out that we have also introduced the right to an allowance for children, for children of the dead Croatian defenders at the highest level, so in the highest amount foreseen under the Law on Supplements. Also, members of the family of a imprisoned or missing Croatian defender from the Homeland War have the right to a new law after the termination of a family disability payment on a family disability in a continuity recognised by his official duty, not as in 2001 at their request. We also introduced some provisions relating to customs and tax reliefs. Examples for the import of a private car and are easily recognised as being different from previous HRVI law, Croatian military disabled persons to the fourth group whose identified organ damage has resulted in impaired limb or visual impairment. The basis for the establishment of the right to the family disability of members of the family of the dead Croatian defender from the Homeland War who died or killed increased from 40% to 50% of the base. The dead Croatian defenders of the Homeland War are also now considered to be the Croatian military disabled 100% of the first group to pay for the care and assistance of another person who is urmo from the wounds or injuries received in the Homeland War, and the family disability is 50% of the basis in this case. I also remind myself of news in the law regarding the rights of Croatian defenders against post-traumatic stress disorder. I remind you, distinguished female MPs and gentlemen, that we have respected in the new law everything that Croatian defenders have been looking for in their 2003 convention for post-traumatic stress disorder. Among other things, they asked for the publication of the number of Croatian defenders who unfortunately committed suicide. We published it, that data. They've been seeing the general public ever since. Then we introduced some other news into the law, such as that of valid medical documentation for sickness and death, due to illness and suicide caused by mental illness, was extended from 30 days to two years for post-traumatic stress disorder to 10 years, and longer with skills in authorized health institutions. It is also recognised the right to medical and physical rehabilitation for all Croatian wartime war people from the Homeland War. In addition, we have prepared a new programme of psychosocial and health care, which can be said with pleasure in 2005 on a continuous basis. I will say briefly, of course, a few figures that are very illustrative about how we implemented the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers. Here you can see it right at the beginning, so in the table where the amounts are shown about meeting certain provisions of particular importance such as permanent and one-time monetary rights, housing care, so on permanent one-time monetary rights more than 791 million. Then residential care 181, pension and disability insurance rights 2 billion 940 million and more, health insurance rights 12 million 396, the right to free textbooks of more than 13 million, the summering of children of Croatian defenders of weaker property status more than one million kuna, the employment of Croatian defenders in total through the measures of this ministry, through measures of the Croatian Institute and the labour ministry of more than 105 million kuna customs and tax relief of more than 78 million. For exhumation and identification and burial of more than 5 million kunas. To mark the place of mass graves, about 2 million in total. For the funerals of Croatian defenders almost 4 million. For a psychosocial program of about 9.5 million and for cooperation with the Homeland War Associations more than 16 million, so 16 and 649 and more. I think here these financial indicators are also talking about the fact that we have fully fulfilled the law as I remind you once again, shows the audit report that we have received and which is excellent, therefore unconditionally. What I would particularly like to highlight from this report is our employment programmes. Through the employment programmes where we implemented 6 measures last year, I must say that a particularly good response and echo had a measure to set up Croatian defenders' cooperatives. That measure is on a constant rise. Here last year we supported the establishment of 18 cooperatives, this year will probably be 33, but we will also seek to support these very measures to expand, or increase. Here's to the illustration, in the last year over 3 million, forgive 30 million for these measures, these six measures. However, in this year, we have increased these funds by 5 million in 2006 so that almost 5 million increases, almost all of them are heading right for the establishment, i.e. supporting Croatian defenders' cooperatives. In total, we have hired more than 3.5 thousand Croatian defenders through these six measures so far, but you have detailed data for 2005 in your report. I would especially like to highlight professional training for an unknown employer, then self-employment during 2005. The measure was used by a thousand 229 users, and the measure we call measure 4 and the lending of small and medium-sized enterprises is a measure which also met a great deal of interest and was granted 444 interest rates of 2%. From the employment measures, I also point out that support for individual projects in 2005 has been paid to 15 such incentives for defenders' entrepreneurs and thus, of course, provided and employed by other defenders. As far as housing is concerned, I must say that we tried to strengthen our activities in 2005 to meet this legal obligation. In the period from 1 January 2005 to 31 December 2005, we resolved 931 requests, meaning both the assignment of apartments and houses of APN 219 requests, the granting of housing loans in our own organisation 468, the award of housing loans for the purchase of apartments in the organised construction of 244 applications. Then I have to say that the total amount of housing loans paid in 2005 amounted to more than 77 million kuna. It also started preparing 414 apartments at 11 locations according to the 2005 programme in Trogir, Solin, Knin, Drniš, Virovitica, Vukovar, Kaštel Novom, Benkovac, Netretic and Rijeka. 119 apartments from the POS programme were purchased and distributed to 15 locations. 361 apartment purchase contracts were concluded, 216 rent contracts were concluded. There are 19 housing units in preparation for which we will spend around 20 million kunas, 50 houses for Croatian wartime wartime disabled 100%, so so so also resuscitation. I would also like to inform you of respected MPs and MPs that we have major problems precisely with the rehabilitations of housing units, some of which have been built since 97, 98. That's, here's a little photo lab about what we're coming across here in these apartments, all the disadvantages that we have to correct, that we have to correct. These are all, of course, new, uninhabited dwellings that should be shared with the victims, therefore, wartime military peoples and family members of the dead, imprisoned and missing. But as you can see, many need to make extra big demands in order to be ready to move in at all. Here we are preparing for this Saturday to move into 92 apartments in Zagreb. We've spent an extremely large amount of energy and time, but of course money to meet them, here's one example, so, wrongly connected pipes, unfinished installations and a bunch of problems that we're meeting in this area of housing, which I hope will be the past, and I believe that in the 2006 report we'll have better data on this. We've also solved in fact all 100% of the first group's disabled, as far as housing is concerned. So this process is actually completely over. There is still a completion of 2 houses in Split and, of course, that legal procedure that must be done in order to bring all those houses that have been built and which have actually been moved and transferred to the permanent property of the Croatian military disabled. In the last year we also did, I'd say, one big car procurement project for 100% first group disabled. 148 cars were bought and assigned to 100% disabled groups of 1st. We got another 141 cars this year. These are the Croatian military disabled people who had the right to use those cars before, but here they are now for the first time, and here's the program with great pleasure, I have to say, we're just finishing it. So far, we've divided 92 cars into 141 projected cars this year. So by the end of year 141, last year 148. Also last year, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, we did a very difficult job, which is making a register of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. The fact is that we, here, 10 years after "Storm" actually just put on the list all those who got the status of Croatian defenders who had that status. I must remind again that the status certificates were issued by the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia. that we have united that list, cleansed it. It was also, I must say, one hard job because we encountered many difficulties. Here's the information: somewhere for 32,000 people on the list, so those in the register after that merger, we didn't have an address. So that's, that's just one of the examples we've faced. I think that, here, and this job now at the very end, because it had to be again sought out for each individual, tracked down, seen why it happened, removed many other ambiguities, but here. So, we have finally since 2005 since the reporting period for which I speak, we have the Register of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. Also in last 2005 we finally put on the feet of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War. It is certainly one of the most powerful funds in Croatia. His property today is 2 billion 165 million kuna. As you know, part of the big deal was done, calculating the share of Croatian defenders. However, since there have been some difficulties, that there have been some new proposals, I have established a working group that is just finishing up its work, which once again examines the criteria for participation, and I believe that this proposal will be fully agreed and that we will complete this job that was also not at all simple. One that needed to be consumed with just as much energy. You know, the board of directors was established. The Management Board is working regularly. The Governing Board of the Croatian Defence Fund also made a decision to split one-third of the Fund's one-third profit. It is you who have been discussing these days and how much I know you have supported both one law and another that speaks of the division of that one-third profit. Therefore, the Law establishing the Fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders and children of Croatian defenders and the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund, which would, of course, help those defenders who are in a particularly difficult social situation. And what we cannot, of course, cover, to say the provisions of the law, that is, for which there is no possibility, for example, in the case of a serious illness in the family of defenders, particularly children. So where could it be helped, intervene, and I believe that both the Fund and the Foundation will work well. We have already taken all measures in the ministry for all those steps that should follow after the laws have entered into force. I also remind you and this is also mentioned in this Report that in 2005, we finished another big and difficult job, and this is a contract to take care of the victims of the Croatian Defence Council. So, as you know, it took a long time, there were a lot of difficulties, the contract was prescribed. In the end, here, the contract came into effect, so I'm not going to talk about all the work that was to be done right now, but I want to say, I know that many of you know that there have really been a lot of difficulties. And after the signing of the contract and of course regarding Croatia, the Croatian Parliament, you respected MPs and MPs have ratified the contract, i.e. the law. But here were the difficulties that are now, I believe behind us, and here is exactly the period in which all those who have the right to this contract appear and I believe that by the end of the year we will take the first steps in achieving the rights of members of the Croatian Council of Defense, therefore, to Croatian wartime disabled and family members of the dead, imprisoned and missing who belong to this contract. Ladies and gentlemen, here's the last thing I'd like to say is that in 2005, in the reporting period, co-operation with the Homeland War Associations was great. Finally, we worked together to make this law that began to be implemented in the last year. The associations were indeed real partners in the process, so their comments were considered, many of these remarks, and these proposals were incorporated into the law that is in force, into the law that is being implemented. I want to say two, three things that are related to the law, to the start of implementation in 2005, but which continues in 2006 as well. In 2006, in the first half, we realised and recovered the debt according to the 2001 law for 2001 and 2002. For this we provided 141 million kuna, in next year's budget projections, we envisaged 189 million to pay back the 2001 law for 2003, and we also provided in the budget for this year, and all of which is naturally referred to both last year and last year for payment according to the judgments that reach us to the courts, according to the 2001 law, so people were sued, received, and for that purpose we provided 33 million kuna in the budget for this year, I'm not sure we'll have enough, but these will be projections also for the next financial year. At the very end, but of course not thinking it's less important, but it's also one of the priorities of our ministry. I would just like to say a few more words about the process of seeking out captured and missing Croatian defenders. So, in the last year, we made significant efforts, I'm going to say just one thing that we proposed to the government, that the government had accepted, that the Committee for Prisoners and Missings was established, or the Commission for the Search for Prisoners and Missing with the administration that exists in our ministry, and I believe that here's all these efforts are going to produce results, given that we're trying to really boost the pace and discovery, unfortunately possible and mass and individual tombs. Currently in Croatia there are 143 mass graves and a thousand 700 individual ones. We continue to mark these places, and tomorrow we will mark such a place in the Old Jankovci. Here are the ladies and gentlemen, the honourable MPs and MPs, Mr. President, here is a brief review or a flight of reports on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families. I believe and hope that you will accept it and that the debate on this report will, of course, be on the welfare of Croatian defenders and members of their families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71563	Thank you. The Committee on War Veterans, chairman of the Committee, respected representative Vlado Jukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71564	Dear Mr. President, Madam Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At its 23rd session, the Council of War Veterans Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed a report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families for the period until 1 January to 31 December 2005. Committee meetings were attended by representatives of associations from the Homeland War. Introductoryly, a representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia informed the Committee that this was the first report to process the implementation of the new law in application of the law of 1 January 2005 for which 4 billion and 164 million kuna were spent during the reporting period. To pay off the so-called. The permanent rights of Croatian defenders spent 765 million kuna, which is an increase of 17% or 110 million kuna compared to 2004. The largest item in law enforcement is expenditure for pensions and pension incomes. In 2005, 2 billion and 940 million kuna were paid for. The average monthly pension in 2005 was 5 thousand 522 kuna. A total of 15 thousand 874 applications were received during the housing process during the reporting period, of which 3 thousand 29 were newly received. A total of 931 requests were resolved and 219 were granted through the award of the apartment and 712 by the granting of the loan. A total of 182 million kunas, 77 million kunas from the budget of the family ministry, defenders and intergenerational solidarity and 105 million from the budget of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction. The biggest problem with housing is the lack of adequate urbanised municipal land by local self-government units and the lack of funds in the budget of local self-government units. In order to address this problem, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has reached a conclusion on the need... providing the necessary locations in cooperation with local self-government units. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In cooperation with the Ministry of Defence, construction of residential buildings should be organised as part of the abandoned military. If this does not ensure sufficient locations for the Government of the Republic of Croatia, a decision should be made on the purchase of apartments on the market. In the exercise of the law in the field of health insurance... is the problem of those Croatian defenders who pay their salaries due to sick leave using the '96 law. the years in which the fee has been determined according to the corresponding salary at the time of development and has been unchanged for several years, i.e. does not monitor the movement of wages in HV. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is about 363 Croatian defenders, and this problem should be resolved as soon as possible in a way that is also followed by salary movements in the Croatian Army. The following opinions, proposals and comments were presented in the debate. The housing of Croatian defenders as the biggest problem highlights insufficient coordination between the competent authorities of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction and the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity and the units of local self-government. It is also necessary to introduce in the supervisory process all those providing the necessary financial resources. The observed problems in the quality of the built dwellings should be eliminated as soon as possible and make it impossible to repeat the errors in the future through enhanced control and better coordination of the competent authorities. The proposal was put forward that a complete programme of housing from construction to the assignment of apartments goes through the Ministry of Croatian Families, defenders and intergenerational solidarity. The problems of living care of the most difficult disabled are ahead of the final solution, but the issue of long waiting for the resolution of a disabled with a lower percentage of damage to the organism is highlighted because the basic criterion is the percentage of damage to the body and each year a certain number of disabled persons with a higher percentage of damage are identified so that they are forced to wait several years to resolve their claims. The reduction in family pension benefits of 15%, the reduced fees of 15% received by members of the families of imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders should be abolished and the cost of life should be adjusted. The need to determine responsibilities for the failure to pay off the most difficult rights for disabled persons is highlighted and the differences of disability confirmed by the rulings of the Administrative Court of Justice of the Republic of Croatia and the need to address the problem of ageing for unpaid rights for those with disabilities who did not seek judicial protection. A small number of approved requirements for the rehabilitation programme, i.e. the stationary treatment of Croatian defenders, have been observed and it is necessary in future to work on better informing the defenders themselves about this possibility. Progress has been welcomed in the field of employment of Croatian defenders through retraining and schooling programmes where more than 100 million kunas have been spent, from the financial items of several ministries to supporting defence cooperatives where the basic criterion is a quality programme of the cooperative. The opinion on the need to use the term of entry under special advantages was expressed instead of a direct entry in Article 53 of the Law because it is publicised that defenders and their children do not have to fulfil any conditions when enroling in high school and high school and which is not true. The families of the Croatian military disabled from the Homeland War of the First Group with the right to compensation for the care and assistance of another person who died of the consequences of the wound or injury obtained in the defense of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia have a hard time proving the causal link of death with participation in the war and thus remain without the status of family members of the dead Croatian defender. It is necessary to speed up the actions on the issue of the Croatian Ombudsman's status card from the Homeland War in accordance with the provisions of Article 7. The rules on the registration of Croatian defenders knowing that the register is established and the number of Croatian defenders is known. After the discussion, the Committee decided to unanimously propose to the Croatian Assembly the following conclusions: "The report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence from the Homeland War and members of their families for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2005 is accepted. "years." Another conclusion: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia commits itself to taking measures to address the problems of those of Croatian defenders who use salary compensation due to sick leave under a previously applicable special regulation. to which the fee is determined according to the corresponding salary at the time of development and does not follow the movement of wages in the Croatian Army.". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71565	Thank you. Committee on Immigration President-in-Office Zdenka Babić-Petricevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71566	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister! The Committee on Immigration at the 24th session of the Committee held on 5 July this year discussed the report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2005, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government in an act of 2 June 2006. The Committee discussed the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2005 as an interested working body in accordance with Article 40. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Opening the debate, the board president gave the floor to Tomislav Ivic, State Secretary of the family ministry, defenders and intergenerational solidarity. The proposer reminded members of the committee that this law came into force on 1 January 2005. This new law addresses many issues of Croatian defenders in a better way. A minimum pension institute has been introduced, an add-on to the pension of the station in an integral part of the pension, due to the frequent PTSD disease, the deadline has been extended to apply for the status of wartime combat victims. All wartime military people are freed from the payment of health care participation, a successful employment programme has been implemented, about a hundred agricultural cooperatives of Croatian defenders and thirty-five in the establishment and many other news that go to the benefit of the lives and work of Croatian defenders. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The law on the rights of Croatian defenders and their families was signed on 23 December 2005 by a contract between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on co-operation in the area of the rights of the victims of war in Bosnia and Herzegovina who were members of the Croatian Council of Defence and members of their families. The contract came into force on 1 July this year. The contract regulates the right to retire members of the Croatian Defence Council who have obtained the status of a wartime disabled with the grounds of being wounded or imprisoned in Bosnia and Herzegovina and members of their families, the deceased, imprisoned or missing member of the Croatian Defence Council, by reducing their pension by the amount of the personal or family disability achieved by the judicial resolution of the competent authority of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Republic of Croatia in the national budget for 2006 provided funds for the payment of 800 family pensions, members of their families, dead members of the Croatian Defence Council. That interstate contract also regulates the right to the health protection of the victims of the Croatian Council of Defence and members of their families and in a way that will be established by a special agreement of the Contracting States. 4 billion and 164 million kuna were spent in the enforcement of this law. After the discussion, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: "The report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence from the Homeland War and members of their families for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2005 is accepted. "years."
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71567	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club respected representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71568	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished Croatian Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Croatian Defence, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In front of us is the Report on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families for the period from 1.1. to 31.12.2005. As we know, this report speaks of the period of application of the new Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers, which was adopted on 13 November 2004, which applies from 1 May 2005 and which through the funds provided in the state budget for its execution speaks of total amounts of 4 billion 164 million and 962 thousand kuna. The amount covers permanent and one-time rights, housing, pension, disability insurance rights, health insurance rights, the right to free textbooks employment of Croatian defenders, customs relief, summering of children of Croatian defenders of the weaker property, exhumation, identification and burial of victims of the Homeland War. Marking the site of mass graves, memorial cemetery, victims of the Homeland War, burial of Croatian defenders with military honors, psychosocial assistance, collaboration with associations stemming from the Homeland War. All of these forms include improving the status of Croatian defenders and members of their families and are expressed in the financial improvement of 300 million kuna against previous laws and former funds. The increase in budgets for the needs of better care and care for the population of honest people who have defended and freed their country and, in this way, and with due respect through all aspects and legal norms, is being extended by Croatian citizens as well as by state authority. I'll take the order regarding the permanent cash rights of one-time cash aid regulated by Chapter 3. Law on the rights of Croatian defenders. ... rights of Croatian wartime war invalids from the Homeland War based on damage to the organism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatian war invalids from the Homeland War have the right to a personal disability, an allowance for care and assistance of another person and an orthopaedic allowance. Head 4. The laws are prescribed rights based on the loss, imprisonment or disappearance of family members on family disability, increased family disability, increased family disability and the rights of members of the family of the imprisoned or missing Croatian defender from the Homeland War. In chapter 5. The laws are prescribed rights on the basis of material and other needs of users and on a special allowance, the right to provide care and assistance services, supplies and extras to help in the house. In order to achieve the permanent rights of Croatian military disabled people, they are classified according to the determined percentage of organ damage in 10 groups. The personal disability of the first group disabled shall be determined at the monthly amount of 115% of the established... basics in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Invalids from 2nd to 10th group shall be determined as a percentage of the personal disability of the first group. The reporting period averaged 37,000 795 users of personal disability, about 1% more than in 2004. This total of 216 million 523 thousand 277 kuna were spent for the payment of personal disability in 2005. Or 13.72% more than in 2004. The average monthly expenditure in 2005 was 18 million 043 thousand and 649 kuna. In the case of family invalids defined in Article 88(3), The law must be said that, exceptionally in that article, the parents of the dead Croatian defender from the Homeland War who are not in labor and who are not beneficiaries of pensions under the law or pension insurance regulations above 50% of the budget base have the right to a family disability and this: one parent in 70% of the basics, two parents 100% of the basics. Also in 2005... The right has been paid 68 million 629 thousand kuna, which is 1.22% less than in 2004 and this reduction refers unfortunately to the departure of the parent population that is leaving this world because of their age and mortality. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As regards housing until the start of the reporting period on 1 January 2005, 12 thousand 845 housing claims were submitted and during this reporting period, a total of 3 thousand 29 applications were received during this reporting period and 15 thousand and 824 requests are now in place. In accordance with the order set out in the report period, 931 applications for the award of an apartment or a loan were resolved. In monitoring housing for the needs of Croatian defenders and members of their families, there is a constant problem in preparing new construction sites i.e. the lack of adequate urban land to be organised by local self-government units under the law. The lack of funds from local self-government units to build municipal infrastructure and connections is also their legal obligation but are deafened. It is evident that during the period 2000 to 2004, housing of the victims was largely resolved by loans and those of the apartments that were completed and divided. And it has been neglected and no location has been prepared for the new organized construction. Through current activities, too, there is a lack of goodwill of local self-government units to assign land and to cover the cost of municipal equipment so that the report shows that in 2005 i.e. The most in the second half of 2005 was not nominated any, new location for organised residential construction. So far, organized construction has also been accompanied by poor quality problems, deadlines, supervision and activation of deposited bank guarantees for inadequate construction carried out during the previous period by sister companies, and we know who. From the display of the building table, it is clear which companies are and I will make it clear that there would be no failures of only two companies of all those mentioned and who did not carry out their work properly. One is "Capital ing", while the other is "Con Gamma". Similar cooperatives who worked with them and for them were also within deadlines as well as adequate and quality work far from what was prescribed for both consumers and competitive forms. Therefore, as a comment of this report, we would like to point out that it is necessary to include the supervision of experts and local self-government in which it is done and to activate bank guarantees in order to remove all deficiencies and timely within the defined deadlines of the apartments, the correct and orderly hand over to the use of Croatian victims. Using legal norms that all those who have not fulfilled their obligations are subject to, and have received the funds, they must certainly also be prosecuted by legal norms and means to remove all that they have done, to the detriment of Croatian defenders. Analyzing this report from the Homeland War Association, they expressed their satisfaction with the cooperation with the Croatian Defence Ministry and pointed out that the situation had improved significantly and that the concern and respect of Croatian defenders certainly supported by all indicators was about the satisfaction of applying all new legal forms. It is important to point out after this report that the revision for 2005 in which the report clearly and unequivocally states that the work of the Croatian Defence Ministry and the assessment of this work is unconditional. I would therefore like to stress that we can all be satisfied with this kind of work together, but I also want to look back at what has been brought in for the defenders of the Croatian Defence Council. So with all the problems that followed the adoption of this interstate contract that has been ratified, it is finally signed and started to apply since the first of July and will be covered in this year to which it is even secured. The funds are secured in the state budget for 800 family pensions, members of the family of deceased members of the Croatian Defence Council. The above-mentioned interstate agreement regulates all rights in the health care of the victims of the Croatian Council of Defence and members of their family in a way that will be determined by a special agreement, resulting from a contract between the two countries. Therefore, the Croatian Council of Defense and its victims, defined by this interstate contract, can be satisfied. Finally, I would like to say that, on the basis of everything from the Croatian Democratic Community club, it unreservedly accepts such a report and supports it on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families in the first year of its application and expresses its satisfaction with the objectives achieved through the law and normal that are defined through the law and we expect these reports to continue to be assessed by the revision unconditionally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71569	Thank you very much. For the club IDS, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71570	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, For the rights of Croatian defenders, something above 4% of the state budget is being allocated at this time. Or to be more precise 4 billion 164 million kunas. When we add that amount to 28.5.6 billion for pensions plus 16 billion kuna for health care, we see that only those three items in the state budget are participated with cca 50%. Not once I said that disabled people deserve everything, absolutely everything. It doesn't have to be for the others. Clearly, it must be for everyone, but the obligation and gratitude of the community to the disabled must be immeasurable, but other positions that were in the Homeland War, which were mobilized on the basis of a mobilization call, that position should in no way be, or because of that position, particularly privileged, whether it is the import of a car, whether it is shares etc., etc. What I particularly want to welcome, however, to these categories of citizens is this law that has allowed them a minimum pension of 45% of the average salary. Why am I saying that? First, the disabled have all of us in their debt to the victim. And that's what we have to confess to them. Second, these people clearly cannot take care of themselves, and that is why they need to be cared for by the widest community. True, many who found themselves in Croatian troops, and I don't know, by some there are over 500,000, why did I turn that on, over 500,000 people. The problem is that, suddenly, this non-combat composition has grown above the battle itself, and this may create a gap around some of the rights between these generations, let's say, and these new generations, just as this problem that arises in enrollment. True, there are certain times before which it is impossible to hide. These people who had been and spent many years in the war, and some others were at work, when they returned after three or four years they hardly could, which is because of the transformation, which because of this or that return and found the job open, if they had any place to go back. And that of some participations in conversion, etc. We don't waste words at all. So, in order to avoid confusion, the disabled all, the mortally injured defenders absolutely everything, the pensions of the defenders too, but beyond that I don't think we should spread some special rights so that it doesn't look like buying political favor. And secondly, to avoid creating now a gap between the defense population and these new ones that appeared or appeared after '95, '96. A year. What's on the other side is just as hard to imagine that Croatia has over 500 thousand defenders at this time. Because if it were such a fashion, it would have come to Stalingrad. But let me get back to the report. Some things have changed in the last two years. That's true, it should be clearly acknowledged, for example. that the founding party in the enemy camp has the status of a Croatian wartime wartime invalid at least 20% of the damage to the organism, pensions no longer comply with the amount of the pension of military personnel, which is also more favourable for defenders, but must not be clearly on the other hand nor chicanated by those who are in the military. When I mentioned the disability recognised to the people who are trapped in the enemy camp, wouldn't it be as logical to come out to meet those people who were in Mathausen, Dahau, Jasenovac, Govnars, Rižarna, Trieste, as well as the civilization issue with the recently adopted Antifascism Declaration why these people are not recognised the rights that Croatian defenders have. The defenders who make an age or disability pension under the Pension Insurance Act also belong to the right to an add-on of 10 to 30%. There's a so-called. The lowest pension of 45% of the average salary, and I particularly welcome it at the time when the pension of new pensioners is cca. 600 kuna below the average pensioner or even 800 kuna below the average pension of the so-called pensioner. old pensioners. And therefore, this law is also an opportunity to cry out in some way, that these new pensioners too seem to be in some way unfair and should also be taken into care through a clear change in pension reform and these people. Defendants who are 65 years old, means male, 60 years old, and who are not entitled to a minimum pension are entitled to a minimum pension of approximately 1,000 and 200 kuna, the average pension of new pensioners. These changes in Mrs. Jadranka Kosor's term, Vice-President of the Government, as I am somehow experiencing, have put emphasis on, say, pensions, which I am looking forward to, but today we may also need to discuss new pensioners as well. I'll talk about some more rights later, which may be beyond the state's capabilities. I dare say, on the other hand, no country knows of its defenders or veterans as we can also call them, clearly of the Homeland War, one as wide a range of rights as the Republic of Croatia knows. It's the truth and the one who claims otherwise is simply lying. The truth is also that probably no country applies to NOB fighters as this country does. In Croatia we have 37,000 795 users of personal disability and a special supplement receives a thousand 655 Croatian military disabled persons, an extra for the care of another person receives 708 persons, an orthopaedic allowance receives a thousand 964 persons, supplies receive 4 thousand 211 defenders, family disability receives about 13 thousand 362 persons and now do not list all of these rights that are shown on the 22 side of this report. In total, 765 million kunas or about 63.8 million kunas are allocated to those rights under that recapitulation. As far as housing care was concerned by 2005, there were 12 thousand 845 such claims, and another 3 thousand 29 applications were received in 2005. There are people with disabilities who can't be a problem in any way. They must be absolutely cared for as well as the families of the victims, the prisoners, the missing defenders, but some requests for people who do not belong to those groups should at least be audited not to have some ironed down as recently in Mr. Besthek's case, although my attitude is absolutely by law, but if someone's right is established and you know that a man is in a wheelchair, that there is no leg, that there is no hand then let him go, don't just touch it. We have almost 30,000 PTSD patients on the other hand, many defenders have raised their hands to themselves, so that's one delicate thing I would say and also a political question and it's also worth talking about. Because the number of a thousand 632 suicides is scary. Most of these suicides were in 1999. 153, then 2003. 138, but also the data for last 2005 in a 129 figure is also more than scary. As far as Dark Bestek himself is concerned, I'm against being called a disabled model like those inscriptions come out in some newspaper. It's about a man who's lost a leg, who I don't know, has more gellers in his body, who's gonna have to walk on crutches for the rest of his life, and that's why those who call him in the media a disabled model are, at the very least, heartless. But that, on the other hand, HDZ or that media machine used it in campaigns before and for elections is also true. If it were also an effective message or a campaign, it was. As is true, Mr. Bestek volunteered to participate in all of this. That's the only thing I blame him for. Repeat. If someone is diagnosed with a disability of, say, 100% or 90% due to a lost leg, they should remain entitled to it. If he is even assigned something, simply keep it if the system is wrong and he cannot answer for it, this doctor should at least respond to it, but clearly to other categories, then we should act in the same way. It's just my philosophy. They are not your defenders, these disabled people have misused their rights, if they have made a mistake then they have made doctors, but we do not also have to say, the right distinction to do between the participants of the Homeland War and the one who lost his leg in 43rd in the vicinity of Gospić or in my Slovenia near Buzet. I'll say it one more time. It never spreads the range of rights, and yet we have a huge number of suicides which will say that somewhere else is the problem. Maybe it's not so much a problem with rights, in money, it might be a problem in some community relationship with these people, but also the fact that the community sometimes doesn't recognize people with real problems, real warriors but sometimes concentrates on those of that group that are the loudest in our society. I don't want much at the flats, I know they've created a problem for us in Buzet, but I'll say something else. That the non-solid construction Mrs. Minister also spoke of, these apartments exist in Croatia, is becoming a serious problem. What happens in some of those buildings, if you had the chance to enter Pula into those buildings, etc. Well, it's just a shame and what the least the government can do, that the performers sue you for not solid construction in front of the courts. I know that sometimes local self-government units are also unknowable in problems, that they do not show understanding for certain categories of Croatian defenders. But I'm going to name a special case on this occasion, and these are the Valovina defenders in Pula. It's not a matter now, so some of them are sent to Istria in 92, but today they're there, these people need help, offer them housing. Pula is likely to offer land, although the army has land there. Every seven square meters of land in Pula is owned by the Croatian Army and should simply be approached to take care of it in some way. I also know that some people with disabilities started with my Buzet, and you know that, too, started under quotes bloody, really only when they got that disability not to say when they were retired. But now it's less important. It is important to stop knowing this when we talked about it this morning with the establishment of new municipalities and to stop pauperating local self-government because it should participate in all of this as well as the Croatian Defence Ministry. Direct enrollment in studies of the total number, according to this data here we see that 10.16% or 3 thousand 776 people, of which 6,81% or 257 children are killed, 574 children are severely disabled. I don't really want to bid on this right now, but I will say, on the other hand, that no shares of Croatian companies should be allocated to anyone in particular through this defense fund, but those shares should be transferred to pension funds. This is about 7% of INA, 7% I don't know HT, etc., but the point is how to secure, say, self-employment funds because you'll all agree that the best social policy is a full-employment policy, or the best concern for a worker is politics when you find a job for a man because without a job a note can't even be a worker. About this privileged study, I will not speak of it, but I will only mention that some such students, students, too, have just begun to fear segregation and openly on the team, under allegations, are beginning to negotiate with the Croatian authorities. 26 thousand are unemployed defenders from cca 290 thousand Croatian citizens, which is about 1/10, which will say that they fully share the fate of other Croatian citizens, and at least nobody should envy it. As it goes with the loans, the minister said something about it. There were some problems, but no matter what, the community is taking great care of that population. They owe Croatia, they deserve to worry, it's a shame that Homeland War fighters don't lobby for those from World War II and vice versa. However, no matter what I claim, there is no country that pays as much attention to its defenders as the Republic of Croatia does at this time when it comes to the fighters of the Homeland War. And so much, regardless of perhaps some dissonant tones in my advance, this report certainly needs to be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71571	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Representative Mario Zubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71572	So I would just correct Mr. Caine, he mentioned something to get the Croatian Army to Stalingrad or something. He should know that there were conquering armies in this direction, and the Croatian Army is a defence army and you were talking about defenders. Well, it's not exactly appropriate to compare it like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71573	Correction, Mr Vlado Jukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71574	I'm correcting my colleague Cain's misstatement. I hope to quote it well, and he said the following, and unfortunately not for the first time in this House. And he said that the rights of Croatian defenders in Croatia are the same level as there is not in the world and that one who claims otherwise is lying. A bit of a tough statement for a high house like this, but that's his right. Comrade Cain, the right of the Croatian defender comes down to, and you probably know that because you've been an advocate too long and voted for this Act. The right of the Croatian defender, and you yourself told the disabled everything, and later you spoke of Croatian veterans. It's about the lowest pension if he doesn't make it on a second basis, and that's when he's 65 years old. And it comes down to the right to employment that can't be consumed. And what else? And at the funeral if he calls in on time. And that's the real Croatian veteran. Now, let's start in a row from the neighboring countries, so I don't count now. No country that has war veterans has a greater right because it is the very status of a fighter in both Germany and Austria, Hungary, Albania and apparently in Republika Srpska that brings material rights. And the status of Croatian defender does not bring material rights. Except maybe the right to shares in the Croatian Defence Fund, but that right comes down to several thousand kunas. And that's why it's absurd to think that we're not going to Korea, the United States and anywhere else. It is absurd to say that Croatian defenders as a population of several hundred thousand people have rights such as no one in the world has. It is a difficult statement that should not be heard in this House unless it wants to criminalise the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71575	Thank you. Mr. Representative Marko Shirac, also a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71576	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. In his presentation, Mr Cain said: "The rights for the defenders of the Homeland War outweigh the possibilities of this country." Well, Mr. Cain, that's a naturally incorrect assumption. It may be your judgment and your assessment but it's not, it's incorrect. The rights are proportionate to the possibilities of this state, and they are defined by the laws of the Republic of Croatia and only for one part of people who are either disabled or in this family someone has died or has some other extraordinary circumstances, while other thousands and thousands and hundreds of thousands of defenders of the Homeland War, including myself, have never asked for anything or will receive anything from this country except for these now some rights that go into the fund, and most of them will give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71577	Correction, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71578	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague, Cain, who is talking about the authorized status regarding enrolment in the colleges and high school children of Croatian defenders. First, it is incorrect to refer to Croatian defenders. It refers when it comes to defenders of volunteers and refers to children of Croatian wartime wartime disableds and children of the mortally injured Croatian defenders. Second of all, the United States has such a provision and does not view it as a privileged status, but rather the problem is that the not well-intentioned exploit it and did not create conditions at universities. Because in this way, all he wants is to increase the number of children to be enrolled, not the reduction of quotas. And what's happening now is that it wants to be shown as a privileged status and it's not because the colleges have welcomed them unpreparedly. And they use the ideological fight against Croatian defenders and their children, that they will thus prevent other children from enrolling in colleges. Instead of enrolling everything according to the quota and this part of the children of Croatian defenders, the state pays. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71579	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP, Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71580	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At first, I must note that the debate on Croatian defenders is no longer such an interesting topic, because here we are discussing late afternoons, and it seems to me that there is no minister here in the Parliament, but good. Excuse me. It's well here both colleagues and within HDZ as well as in the SDP have become sensitive to. By listening to the Prime Minister's performance, man would ask if we live in the same country because what we heard turned out to be honey and milk running in Croatia for Croatian defenders, but from what we can hear from the Croatian defenders themselves, it's not like that. According to the government, the new law has solved almost all the problems of Croatian defenders in society. According to us in the SDP, the law has introduced some changes, but they cannot be uniformly evaluated. Some are positive, but some changes have proved to be a complete failure because they have caused a whole series of problems. Last year, we changed the law, to remind the part of the pension insurance rights for Croatian defenders, and discussions about enrolment of children to colleges these days will unfortunately escalate. And to repeat once again for those who do not know this new current Law on Croatian defenders who so boast in more than two-thirds of their content is prescribed an old law that was once fiercely attacked here in the Parliament and outside of it, but let us put it aside. Also such a pink picture by the government spoils and two done jobs, I dare say not very well done work. It is the establishment of a register in which about 500 thousand people with a tendency to increase and a rule on criteria for participation in the Croatian Defence Fund. The government itself has confirmed by forming new committees that some mistakes have been made, and let's remember the debate and within the HDZ about the release of the register from the smog and the late President Franjo Tudjman. I just want to say that reality is a little more complex than the Government wants to show, but let's move on to bits, and the key thing in this whole debate is whether we are satisfied with the care system for Croatian defenders in Croatia, whether it can successfully solve the existing problems of Croatian defenders in society and whether it can contribute to their better socialization, i.e. Involved in normal social life. The answers to these raised questions by reading this report, which gives the main section of each government's policy towards Croatian defenders, are alarming. The truth should be acknowledged that the existing system of care for Croatian defenders over the past 15 years has solved a lot of things and without error it can be said that Croatia belongs to the order of countries that have qualityd their veterans' problems, primarily the victims, means Croatian wartime wartime disableds and families of the dead, and the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders is primarily the law on wartime military victims. However, any system to give maximum results should adapt to existing life, i.e. when we talk about the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences and the set-up system of defences by the current government, we should point out a number of key things in the SDP. I stress that this system does not contribute to the easier involvement of Croatian defenders in society as full citizens of the Republic of Croatia but contributes to the passiveisation of Croatian defenders, meaning not to include them, but to exclusion from social life because the system based on the constant increase in the number of Croatian military invalids in late 2003 was around 33,000, according to this report at the end of 2005 37 and some thousands, according to some estimates today, the figure has passed 40,000, and estimates show that according to these new requirements for the award of HRVI status will rise to 60,000 in two or three years. Also, according to the report, the number of newly retired persons has increased by 20%. Such a system towards us is not a good system because the policy that makes 35-year-olds or 40-year-olds retire and pulls them out of the world of work is not a good policy, it is the simplest, least demanding policy, short-term and attractive, but long-term harmful for both the state and the retired individual, with the attention of the people, should be understood. Often such retirement is the only way to ensure such conditions for life. However, the government is there to create economic, political and in-house conditions by opening jobs and allowing defenders to work and work their own work to ensure quality of life for themselves and their families. By detaching defenders and each man from the working and social environment, however, the dangers of unwanted behaviour are increasing, but it is easier for all of us to talk about the importance and sanctity of the Croatian family than by active comprehensive measures to allow normal conditions for the functioning of the family, in this case the family of Croatian defenders. I stress, instead of pensioning young people should be given a job, employment funds if they are insufficient should be increased. The report shows that measures by those old and some new yield certain results, but unfortunately not enough. The number of unemployed Croatian defenders fell very slowly, in the 5th month of this year there were about 25,000 unemployed. Due to the tourist season, the figure will fall further, and will then return to the established 26 to 27 thousand unemployed Croatian defenders at the end of the year. In this way, the key place in the policy of each subsequent government will be the solution to this problem, the problem of unemployment, and the government that wants to protect the interests of Croatian defenders must not allow what is now a major violation of the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders in part of the advantage of employment in Croatia. I am not talking here about the State Inspectorate's report on the observed irregularities in the report because it does not give the right picture of the problem but I am talking about the expanded practice of the employment of relatives, friends, party colleagues in the past of the competitions in the workplaces which are attractive for Croatian defenders because of their professional training, and this has taken mass proportions in the term of office of this Government. According to information from the very disgruntled Croatian defenders of competitions, for example in Croatian highways, there are no Croatian defenders in certain counties. I'd like to be denied and I have specific information and information about the relatives of individual members of the government. But the democratisation of Croatia has put some things in place. Politics towards Croatian defenders will no longer be able to build on the manipulation of national feelings, making unreal promises but concrete moves to solve existing problems and an additional problem whose scope we do not yet fully know is the help of a category of socially endangered Croatian defenders, some of whom have the status of a Croatian military disabled and are receiving some kind of pension but these benefits are not enough for a normal life. Many of them have nothing and have lost hope of finding a job, so they are not being run among the unemployed at the Employment Office. A meaningful policy will have to be put into office by all the institutions of society in order to offer a certain and acceptable exit from their unfavourable position without false promises to Croatian defenders by insisting on the personal responsibility of each defender in person. Thinking that all states will solve is not good thinking. The state is here to help and create conditions. There's a model for everything I've said. In part, we spent it from 2000 to 2003 with all the criticisms that we heard about him and here in the Parliament, and we became patient. Satisfaction has been determined to show more and more that this proactive comprehensive social model is the only way to solve the problem of Croatian defenders because it cannot be the task of one man or one ministry, but the whole society must be involved in this process, while avoiding the politics of this issue completely. And speaking of politicization, you will allow me to point out another danger, which is that under the form of the protection of Croatian defenders, we do them ourselves often bear service. Let us again mention the case of advantage in enrolment of children of HRVI and volunteers at universities. In the SDP, we believe that this is not a good way to help the defenders and their children, it is simply not because it does not contribute to the socialization of Croatian defenders in society, and we have also warned about this when a new Law on the rights of Croatian defenders was passed, so it is incorrect when members of the government say that no one has warned them. But that's now the problem of this government, and it looks like some ministers who can't agree on how to get out of trouble. Everything we said was extremely well-intentioned. And finally, I would like to point out the biggest open question from the Homeland War, which is the question of the fate of the missing Croatian defenders and civilians. During the debate on the report of the prisoners and missing about three months ago, we pointed out the dissatisfaction with the structure and results achieved in the process of finding, exhumation and identification of the remains of Croatian defenders and civilians, and this dissatisfaction shared by the Association of Parents of Missing and Detained Croatian Lawyers, and today I repeat in this report that we have referred to the parliamentary procedure and the proposal to re-organise the central state office for the prisoners and the missing because the existing administration in the ministry is one and a hundred and five if not more administrations that exist in the composition of the Government with various subsequently formed coordination simply cannot produce the expected results. I would like the government to seriously consider the proposed change although there should be no illusion that it will be rejected but it is given in very good faith. To conclude, we at the SDP Club stress that a policy based solely on passive monetary measures and a limited relatively small number of Croatian defenders is not a good policy. It should certainly be present, but there must be no gravity on it. The weight must be on the working proactive measures in which not only the victims will be involved but also so-called victims. ordinary Croatian defenders. Of course, these measures will also need to provide additional funds for the coming years if we want important shifts and all this is said is in the best intention of trying to reach consensus in the next period of time on this extremely important issue that certain political options have often been known to abuse, but let us show immediately in such behaviour which would certainly be in the interest of Croatian defenders and Croatia themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71581	Thank you, too. Correction by Mrs. Bozica Solic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71582	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, I would fix a fellow Pancic in only one part, and that's when he said that this policy that places defenders outside the world of work is not a good policy. Mr Pancicu, you can see precisely in this reporting period that today is ahead of us it is read that, in this area, progress has been made and progress has been made on the employment of Croatian defenders through both requalification and education programmes and the establishment of agricultural cooperatives, and of course there is a basic criterion for the programme of the work of these agricultural cooperatives. But you said in your report a number of other irregularities. When you mentioned the register of Croatian defenders then Mr Pancic needs to go from himself and question whether it is me or you or any other colleague in that register.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71583	Thank you. It's been a while, thank you. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71584	I didn't to you either, but you did. ... You're ashamed to be in the defense register. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Shame on you. Get out of here.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71585	Why don't you pick strawberries? Is it something embarrassing to read strawberries? ... What are you throwing at her? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What's the matter with you? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Sit down, I didn't give you my word. Sit down! ... Sit down, I didn't give you my word! ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Sit down, I didn't give you my word. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You're insulting the lady.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71586	Enough to insult the Croatian defenders and defenders of Vukovar. Let's make that clear to you in HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71587	Sit down, I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71588	I'll sit down when I want to sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71589	I give you a warning because of the arbitrary use of words you haven't received.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71590	I'll take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71591	Sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71592	I'll sit down when I'm.....the speakers aren't involved, speaking out loud.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71593	Mentioning strawberries is not a correction. ... Sir, I didn't give you my word either. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Marko Shirac correcting the incorrect allegations. Don't throw it out of the bench!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71594	Mr. Vice President... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71595	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71596	On behalf of the club, I'm asking for a break from... [[The speaker doesn't understand, speaks from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71597	I didn't give you my word to ask for a break. And until you get your word, I give you a warning, and now I'm gonna give you a break of 10 minutes. Gentlemen, we are continuing the session. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71599	... What he means is that it is very difficult to bear the insults that come from our colleague Šolić. ... [[Specially enabled.]] The insult was made very clear. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] She was told that Mr. Pancic should be ashamed that he is a defender, that he has no right to defend himself, that he has no right to be in the register. She insulted him. You know, telling someone because he was in the Homeland War, which was an active participant that it couldn't be just because he belonged to the SDP was an insult. These are the words spoken in this assembly on the subject where we discuss defenders. So just because you're working politically in a party that isn't ruling, you have no right to have a status. Pancic isn't the only one with defense status, he's not the only one. Someone doesn't have to agree with what Pancic was doing as a minister, but talking about what he was doing as a minister and how politically we agree with his moves is one thing, and talking about the Homeland War and the participation of us individuals in the Homeland War is still a thing, one of us doesn't stand out, and it doesn't give anyone else the right to be offended. And that's embarrassing. On behalf of the club, we want to make that very clear. It's not the first time. Therefore, Mr Pancic, as Minister, comment, you politically assess whatever you want, but his participation in the Homeland War is something that no one has the right to insult. Of course, the SDP club wants to make it very clear that we are unhappy because the chair of the table does not assess that the insult of the SDP and the defender is something that the chair should react, he does not consider. We're not going to say at all that the corrections highlight their-- their views, but at least the insult our colleague sent in, I think he should have sanctioned it. But it bothers him if Mr. Pancic is irritated by the insults he throws out of the bench, it bothers him. And then he reacts. We won't talk about how we feel as SDPs at all with a tone, a way, an insolence that the chairman is simply communicating with us. And that's why we stopped the session. Well, we're not a bunch of cowards or kids, and he's not our party colleague to yell at us. It's not. It's behavior that we can accept nervousness and this and that, but yet unacceptable behavior. We're talking to each other, sir, and we're yelling at each other just because we're trying to tell each other we can't behave like this. I mean the behavior that might be the reason we're here at the end of our work in this time, but it's still the behavior that's for every conviction. And we can get warnings and we'll get them on and on. Only no one will insult us because we do not belong to the rulers. No one. Not even the chairman. And that's why we're expressing a protest in this way of holding a session and this kind of behavior in the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71600	You got a warning because you took the word without permission, and throwing it out of the bench is the usual thing here and you don't have to chair the hearing. I heard Mr. Stancic digo, Pancic digo without permission, and I used to throw Mrs. MPs to go pick strawberries a few times, which is also offensive, which is what we all heard. And you have also received a warning that there is no discussion under Article 213 because you have risen and spoken, without having received a word from the chairman of the Rules of Procedure. So everything, as far as my presidency is concerned. It is known here in the Parliament that I am trying to respond to HDZ representatives from correcting incorrect allegations and replicas, and the other day I asked eight to do so, but on the other hand there was no adequate response but a further tightened situation. I will no longer beg my representatives to give up. So the representatives of my club that I'm the head of. Therefore, I call upon all tolerant, do not qualify for insults on their own when they come from one side. You should also watch and listen to what your MPs say, whether their statements are offensive to the individual representatives and clubs you mentioned here and the parties you mentioned here. Therefore, my presidency, as I chair, will be such that if I hear and register what is sometimes impossible because of the noise, no matter what side the warning comes from the presidential table. If I've heard that. If I haven't heard you can't interpret, I can't be sure what I heard. And what I heard, I reacted. ... What are you looking for a word for? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Is it a break again?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71601	No, but if I may just add it. I estimate that indeed when it comes to your correctness, I agree with you. Indeed, correct every intercessor that it was no correction, and it was past. I therefore agree in that part. But I talked about insults the most. The insults were made public in the microphone, they'll be on the record tomorrow. They were said in a microphone. I'm sorry we're talking about the defense attorneys. We're letting the counsel insult the defense attorney, the insult. That he must be ashamed that he was in the Homeland War, that he must not be in the register and that he simply has no right to defend himself. I mean, that's what the MP said, and we're talking about defenses. I can accept that you didn't hear that. Read it in the record, give a warning to the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71602	You're the one who explained it. I answered that, and I will act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure as I've acted so far. I ask all MPs to refrain from being offended and do not just listen to insults from one side, listen to those of the other, which you do not qualify as insults, but this other side takes them as insults. So no one will, no one will be able to control their statements a little more. If Mr Pancic's discussion was analysed in which he mentioned HDZ, government, HDZ representatives, etc. could also be interpreted as insults. I'm going over it now. There are two more corrections to the incorrect quote. Mr. Marco Shirac fixed it? You didn't make it right. I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71603	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In his presentation, MP Pancic stated the following. Employment of defenders by the relatives and party line present in the government's policy. That's an incorrect quote. In his presentation, Mr. MP did not support this so severely offensive quote that he presented before the Croatian Parliament. What does that look like? Now I'm just joining what you said from the pay phone, that's just an insult to me. Not only an incorrect quote, but it's insulting me personally and my party colleagues. I'm asking if he has the arguments to come out for this pay phone and let him say it openly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71604	Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mrs Zdenka Babić Petricevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71605	Mr. President, I'm giving up. I've come to the hearing.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71606	Thank you very much. Mr. Petar Mlinarić, correction of the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71607	Mr. Vice President, I would only correct Mr. Pancic's representative said, noted about enrolment, irregularity about enrolment of students. Just today, there was one werewolf mother, a widow of the Homeland War and the mother of the deceased defender who had not yet found her child and said that my Robertina could be equal with the others, when my brother still doesn't know, and my father said she buried her. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71608	Thank you. We're moving on. Let's go to the HNS club, Mr. Representative Zeljko Kurtov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71609	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This law, i.e. A report on Croatian defenders, I was hoping that this assembly would not go after each other to defend him, the other to attack. This report should be accepted as it is, to warn of the shortcomings that occur in connection with defenders, their families, dead defenders, Croatian military disableds, etc. And in my best interest, I think most speakers will do it in that direction and try to direct their debate. This is not the Ministry of Defence, it is not the HDZ Ministry, so don't get involved in the role of the defence attorney of the Ministry of Defence. If a fellow Pancic himself has pointed out some illogicalness, perhaps a tone that you do not like, no one has the right to harass or insult him. Croatian defenders all feel this ministry as their ministry, and in this context I will speak here today, because this ministry was made precisely because of us volunteers and defenders of the Homeland War. So I will try to point out what the defenders themselves are complaining about to me and what I meet daily. I want to, and let's hope that I will live through that day, that I will not meet the defenders and have daily calls for help for information, for information. And that's why my debate today is going to try to help this ministry, because this is my ministry as well as all the other defenders. I'll start with the remarks we've received not only me but also other club representatives, defenders who deal with this problem. Therefore, these are things that are known, I think they also know about them at the Ministry of Defence and I hope, frankly, that we will look at these problems realistically and find easier solutions. Living care, currently there are 15 thousand 874 requests, and 931 requests have been resolved. Gentlemen, if it continues at this rate, it could take another 10, 15 years, so 20, 25 years since the war. I think the vast majority of the defenders, they won't even live to get an apartment and be taken care of. At the speed and the way we do it now, I am not satisfied, and neither are Croatian defenders. However, only housing we have serious objections to the Ministry of Construction, because this is the way we work where we don't have control over the construction of these buildings and apartments in the Ministry of Defence, there are various manipulations, and it comes to the award of apartments that are not in the function of defenders. In order to avoid this, it would take control of this construction to take over the Ministry of Defence and thus make sure that the defenders will. disabled not defenders, getting these apartments in function so they should be. Rights from pension and disability health insurance, I wonder why we don't have a report on the number of defenders, beneficiaries of the right to retire according to the model of increased pension compared to the time spent in war and volunteering. I have a feeling in the House when this Defense Act was passed, many of my fellow MPs were counting on how much we would have increased pensions as volunteers. They were a little bit jealous, etc. But that's not gonna happen. I don't think we've made any pensions on that matter. I'm asking the Ministry why. Why have we passed a law we don't enforce? Furthermore, the problem of the children of the dead Croatian defenders. After schooling, the state takes care of them, after we finish schooling, we have them out of work, the state raises its hands, and these children are in the air. I think that the Croatian state should provide these children, and thank God we have companies in the country where we can provide them with a job. Unfortunately, we have a table and children without both parents, and we see a number of them being unemployed. Those aren't big numbers. It's about 20, 30 people, i.e. young people. That's what bothers me and I want to point out here that the dead defenders and their children, I think we're still not worried enough. I guess I'm gonna have to skip the subject because I'm being drawn to this subject. You, these children of the dead defenders should be entitled to enrolment in colleges, and more importantly, gentlemen, we have witnessed these days many inscriptions in the paper where defenders are somehow trying to put themselves in the top category of people, that they have greater rights, vast rights compared to other people. As a volunteer and as a war commander, it's embarrassing because I didn't get my two kids into college on any kind of privilege, and I didn't get any scholarships for my kids, and believe me, for two to three years, I didn't have any jeans and I was for a while and I was unemployed. Therefore, I think we should take better care of the children of our particularly dead colleagues, and then Croatian wartime disabled. Why do I say that? Well, gentlemen, Sinisa Glavasevic, his son is making a statement in the paper that he disagrees with his special right. Why is that bothering me? We have another girl of the same Croatian volunteer who also publicly declares herself. Why is that bothering me? Especially that's what's bothering me. Well, for reasons I'm sure 80% of defense kids would go to college regularly without any problems. Thus, this alleged privilege could be done in another way, more appropriate. Set the quota one, make a lot more in the other respect. I need to read about the scholarship. If we had invested more in these kids through scholarships, allowed them homes, allowed them to study in terms of materially following them. I assure you that you would do much more for these volunteers and for the late defenders and their children and children of Croatian wartime wartime disabled. This is how we make an impression, gentlemen. We don't really do that. We're creating the impression that Croatian citizens, in relation to us volunteers and defenders, feel deprived and look at us as embarrassing to tell me, but I wanted to mention some Partisan names and nicknames, but I won't. No, it's not my level, but I'm just going to say that as a volunteer, it's very embarrassing for me and that you'd be happy to find a more favourable solution, and that children who have earned their knowledge deserve their entrance exam not to feel less valuable in Croatia, and not especially less valuable than the children of the volunteers. I don't think there's anything wrong with that. I think there's a way for everyone to be happy. There are whether awkwardness, whether ignorance, which is by the way I would not enter, but certainly the Croatian public is turned again in a bad way towards Croatian defenders. They've been coming back for a while again that all the newspapers are filled with some god-awful rights, and I assure you, we have very few. We have the right to a minimum pension and the right to a military funeral if we report in time. My colleague Jukić, I repeat his words, we as volunteers really have little rights, and this law is essentially dedicated to Croatian wartime disabled, victims of the Homeland War, which I have no objection to. In fact, I want to make things better. However, the law itself does not solve the problem. We've brought the Croatian Defence Fund, gentlemen. We were too pleased, we all supported him unanimously. What happened? Stabbing. Gentlemen, battle 90, 91. Well, you all know there wasn't a war then. According to the Croatian Constitution, the war is from 91st to 95th. 91st in 3rd month we send Croatian boys, Croatian state sends to JNA. These same guys were scolded there, some managed to escape, and some fought on the side of the Serb army, the Chetnik army. Forced. For example, some of them were killed so that others would have to serve in their army and attack Vukovar. Croatian boys. I've got names, last names and those people have been doing interviews in the paper before. I asked for rights for these people because the Croatian state sent them to the JNA. At the same time, we give the most boon points to defenders who defended Croatia in the 90th and 91st to the 5th months. The entire population, I assure you, 90% of Croatian defenders are unhappy with the score. I asked the Committee on War Veterans to hold the thematic sessions, that we all submit together our responsibilities and suggestions for being too dissatisfaction with the defender. It's about a little money per person. Therefore, this is not a matter of personal benefit. It is more beneficial than the foundation and training of Croatian defenders for those who really need it. And that's why in this foundation for the education of Croatian defenders and their children, I'm two thousand and some points from the war I'm going to give to that foundation of Croatian defenders, and now I'm speaking from this constituency because it's not big money, I'm not rich enough to give them big money, but I'm going to give this to you from the heart to show that these volunteers and defenders have a big part that's on the verge of poverty, they're having a hard time schooling their children, and I assure you that if we give them scholarships for their children to school, to finish colleges, high schools, and that Croatia is not ashamed of the Homeland War, and that we're not fighting in this way just because someone from another party or some other volunteer, we were all in the same outfit, and we're all thinking the same way now in peace when we need to create, to make progress for our children to argue on this matter. I think we can argue on all kinds of issues, but on the issue of the rights of defense of the disabled Homeland War and the dead defenders and their families, no one has the right to argue or push into the chest that they want to give more than others, we all want to give as much as possible to this country and this people. Through this possibility, we cannot give and everything else is politics, false promises, or anything else. Who says they can give more than Croatian citizens can stand? I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71610	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71611	Dear Mr. President, I am correcting the inaccuracies of a distinguished colleague that the right to enrol in the colleges of children of the dead Croatian defenders and Croatian wartime soldiers of disabled people and volunteers of privilege is not a privilege, namely the provisions of the United States, which is a picture of which, the correction was created by individual colleges because they welcomed all of this unpreparedly and used for ideological purposes. Especially in front of the Faculty of Philosophy. The intention was not to change the general quotas but to make sure that children of Croatian defenders, i.e. volunteers were enlisted outside that quota, and thus we get more people who allow schooling and that manipulation were succumbed to by the children of the late Sinisha Glavasevic and all others because you from... The reason why they're spreading that name is that others won't be able to study. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a lie and a lie. They've been unprepared and some of them are responsible for these things.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71612	HSP representative club, respected representative Vlado Jukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71613	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. The fact that we have had a small increase in tension in the Croatian Parliament as much as it may be and may be negative may be educational in terms of the express sensitivity of Croatian defenders to their status and to question dignity, above all as status, and less through rights. Unfortunately, the fact is that in Croatian society there is a general perception that the media has contributed most to, and sometimes even in this House, it is presented in a way that the Croatian defender and Croatian wartime disabled are identified, and then all the rights that are significant and large, which belong to Croatian wartime disabled people, and as we have heard 37 thousand at this time, are attributed to all Croatian defenders, and these are those who have over 5 hundred thousand, which are of course illogical, but everyone who does so is aware because those who are dealing with politics, who write newspapers, know very well or should know what is going on and unfortunately the result of this whole situation is that in all Croatian society it is a perception that is hard to break that all Croatian defenders have huge rights which are not recorded, we have the right to know today and today in Croatia there are none. But those who represent the political option, and in this Croatian Parliament for years, defenders of the rights of people who in the past system have exercised the rights that Croatian defenders can only dream of are the last ones who should talk about Croatian defenders in this way because... as we know of the legal system and obligations of the former Yugoslavia, and with this we inherited all the privileges and the system... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] protection and today we pay significant amounts for a system that does not exist today in Croatia and which Croatian defenders can only repeat because the difference is very important, it exists in examples today, and that means that the status of a fighter brings material rights, that means monetary compensation in Republika Srpska, Yugoslavia and in some other countries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's this system that we have in part because we're paying for today's pension day and everything that this privilege system has produced allegedly as an inherited right, but then on that. We are all sensitive when we question our contribution to the defence of the Republic of Croatia and that is good and we all need to think in such a way about the sensitivity of all Croatian defenders when we talk about these so serious topics. The report on the implementation of the Law on Rights of Croatian Defence is a report on the law passed in this House by consensus. This means the political will of all political parties and should be treated as such. What is interesting to say about this report is that it has received support from the parliamentary bodies that have held the debate and thus the passing assessment of most clubs and the Croatian Party of Rights club. Of course, every report other than its quality of content has and shows certain political facts that are necessary and can be commented on. What is needed, and we do not think that it is said in the debate on this report, requires a comparative view of the fact that it has been highlighted several times, a combination in several segments and in a statistical sense, but also in terms of finances compared to the previous year, means in 2004 because, as has been pointed out here, we are discussing here a report relating to the new law, which one year was in office and we now have a report for the whole of 2005 and it is interesting to compare some indicators compared to the year 2004 when the 2001 law was in force, which we know a lot of objections, so I will take the right to show you some of the financial indicators resulting from the 2005 report for 2004 because financial indicators are also those that show politics, and in this case it is about the implementation of the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders. So we can conclude by comparing that for pension insurance rights, the disability increase compared to 2004, 2005 is 21%, which is an indicator of greater rights and more users. As we can see, we'll see later that the number of users has increased. As far as housing is concerned, there is an increase of 23%, there is a very significant increase that needs to be welcomed and it shows that the application of the new law has led to an increase in investment in housing even though this is what we heard and we know insufficiently in relation to the large number of demands and needs shown by Croatian military people who are entitled to use housing rights. When it comes to health insurance rights, unfortunately funds according to monetary indicators are lower by 80%. So in 2004, there were more resources for the health care of Croatian defenders in the law enforcement report. And it should be made as an observation and as a question. As we know, there have been amendments and additions in some other laws, and I personally hold the basis of the experience and problems of Croatian defenders that the right to health care and participation is much more valuable than some other rights which, of which are full of newspapers and which are more promotional than they really help to correct the status of Croatian defenders. I would like a concrete response from the Secretary of State on these monetary amounts, which means 2004. 60 million kuna, 2005. 12 million kuna. Where the difference in money applies to health insurance rights. As for employment there is a minus 14%, meaning less by 14%, but given some other measures we can also be satisfied with. As far as customs and tax breaks are concerned, there is less than 27% in 2005, meaning minus. As far as the right to free textbooks is concerned, it's 25% higher, and the expenditure on psychosocial programs, even though we heard the vice president's announcement today, is less than 36%. And there are other numbers of places of mass graves with 46% higher and this second one is more or less the same as it was in 2004. So these financial indicators, when we look at the topics, show a slightly different picture than the one we generally have on the issues of Croatian defenders. It would be interesting to hear the ministry's answers regarding financial separations in law enforcement. The second part of the problem or issues that are seen in this report, and I believe that otherwise, reports like this would have to contain comparative data in order to be compatible, not to be as content-specific for each year, so that we ourselves have to take the report from last year and compare. It would make sense that in every report, I suggest it to the Government that in the next report we get data for the previous years so that we can monitor law enforcement through both finance and all those other indicators that can give us information so that we can think realistically about law enforcement. What is signifiable and what can be claimed from both reports is the increase from 34 thousand to 37 thousand and 700 users, which means 3 thousand 656 rights users from this law are higher in 2005 compared to 2004. Since the total number of users of these 4 billion kunas speak Colloquial 37 thousand, of course the increase of 3,000 700 is significant, that's 10%. We have to ask ourselves, and perhaps concerned about the question of what are the reasons that this number is so increased and what are the trends. As we have heard what is one of our remarks on this report, what is sort of happening on the ground among the population of Croatian defenders in two directions. One issue is resolving members of the HVO, the other is the issue of a strong increase in deadline requirements and new demands for the status of a Croatian wartime invalid. There are very few talks on these topics that are life-threatening and that rule in the field among Croatian defenders in this report. And that's what needs to be objected to anyway. The question arises whether this system and what is the limit of this system if forecasts are realized, and these forecasts are different and it would be good for us representatives of the Croatian Parliament our ministry tells us concrete indicators. And that means how much the demands for new requirements for establishing the status of a Croatian military disabled have been filed at this time. According to field information, that number is 20 or more thousands. How realistic it is to expect to be based on a procedure that is known, which means establishing their right through two degrees and by revising how much an increase in the number of Croatian military disableds can be expected. And the third is whether this system that is this law, the implementation of this law is even able to endure. The question also arises whether it is possible that such a large number of Croatian defenders are seeking the right of a Croatian military disabled. Is this realistic and should make sure that we do not have one process that will be too much pressure on the state budget and on this law, and on the other hand it will reopen and give someone the right to tell and mention so-called. fake people with disabilities. It should certainly take account of a system that needs to be fair, efficient and fast and that will be based on expert analysis and medicine to determine who really has PTSD, and who is applying for social and various reasons. The application process has achieved dramatic proportions and it can be a very big problem if it is not approached in a serious way. For this reason, I would ask the secretary's representative to inform us how many such demands are and where we are in this story so that next year or us or some other when we read this report, and we could and can today, and we should, if we need to, and suggest and determine what and how things don't get out of hand. Because I repeat 10% increase in the number of Croatian defenders of 37,000 is huge money for the Croatian state and it should be kept in mind that the system can withstand it. Because we will have rights for Croatian defenders and good law if we are not able to finance those rights. The cake is what it is, it's big, it needs to be bigger, but someone in this country would have to know what the maximum of that cake is and we would have to know and behave within those frames. On the very text of the report my concrete remark is the comment of the club is about the question and the part that speaks about the Croatian Defence Fund. If we look at Croatian media, the Croatian newspaper works by associations of Croatian defenders, then we would say that Croatian defenders do not deal with anything other than the Croatian Defence Fund, shares, points and these topics for several months. When we look at the report, it's about half the page, it's a lot of crap. What I have, in particular, even a nomotechnical remark, says the Fund is, as the Croatian Defence Fund of the Homeland War has joined amendments and additions to the law. Well, it's obvious that whoever wrote it didn't take care of the formulations. Here, we should make a much more transparent statement of what is with the Fund, and what is the most important value of points, the estimated value of points publicly announced that this score that has already caused a lot of problems on the ground to make it clear to people how much money they are, so that they don't raise too much tension about who has the points. Because if it isn't done then I will personally consider it, that the goal of the Fund is to promote, and not really to make it real for people to know that their status will bring some material rights. It's about several thousand kunas or how many, let's say that people are aware of what this is about, not spending five hundred kunas. They come from Slavonski Brod here to get 200 points more through the appeal and those points at this point are worth 100 kuna. Let's not make a promotion and let's not put Croatian defenders in such an uninformed position. An additional question about the fund. They're still the same people on the Internet, at least members of the Supervisory Board and the INA and HT. Where people are and why people didn't come in front of Croatian defenders. It's Tomislav Mercep and Đuro Boy. Why aren't their names Mr. Secretary on the Internet as representatives of the Defense Association. The question of building apartments. Last time I spoke, I repeat: who protects the construction mafia in Croatia? Who protects those who signed as supervisors, who are experts in construction? Who, on behalf of the state, signed and stamped and were paid very well that the building or apartment was in good condition? We can't come here and wave pictures of the apartments without also bringing criminal charges and proving and showing that we've done something, that someone is responsible for it. Croatian state or, I know it's not the Department of Defense, but you're the government here. You are for us the Croatian government regardless of which ministry. So give us something to hear or read in the paper that one of those supervisory authorities was responsible for something. Well, at least it's not a supervisory authority anymore and those who did so can't, can't do the work and not see the same faces as the supervisory authorities and the same firms are doing the same work and we're waving with their pictures and their work results here. So do something in that sense. I'll be in touch in five minutes on behalf of the club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71614	Thank you. Now we're going to the clubs or the MPs. Dear Representative Shemso Tankovic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. He's gone. He loses his word first. 5 minutes of HSP club, respected representative Vlado Jukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71615	Thank you, Mr. President. So the next question not mentioned or very little is mentioned in this report is the status of members of the Croatian Defence Council. Thank God the agreement was ratified and the process of exercising the rights of members of the Croatian Defence Council was launched. But we take care of it, we make sure that there's a chance that someone's right at the end of this year, that it's going to take a year or two of hard work to realize these things. What's left to hang in the air and what's the fact in this agreement is there's a 30-day deadline. 1.7 to 31.7. There is too little information for Croatian defenders in Croatian media and in Bosnia and Herzegovina. You need to try a little harder. A lot of people are calling. People don't know that the deadline is very short for 30 days, that he'll have to respect himself. I have an objection to the law enforcement work. As far as these problems are concerned, new problems that need to be addressed have opened up by means of an agreement. One of them is members of the Croatian Defence Council who are now in the status of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and do not have Croatian citizenship, most of them are not Croatians or religiously speaking, they are now staying nowhere. Because this agreement applies only to Croatian citizens. There's already been 1,000 requests. There are about 3,000 such people who fought under the Croatian flag in Savina and Bosnia and Herzegovina. They have the right to be Croatian citizens so that they can exercise their rights so far, and with the effect of this agreement, they no longer have them. And Croatian State i.e. The Croatian Defence Ministry will have to do something. There are various possibilities or amendments to the law on citizenship which I do not think is necessary. We have the Law on Citizenship Article 12. We raise this question and propose to the Government to open this issue because there is the possibility of declaring it a state interest under Article 12 and that those 1,000, two, three people as much as they apply, as long as they want Croatian citizenship and thus remain as members of the Croatian Council defend what they were and that means Croatian defenders who have the right to do so. Otherwise, we left them nowhere because for them, the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina has no obligations or wants them. And I'd like to ask that question to be answered and asked. And finally local administration and self-government. What is the practice in Croatia, and unfortunately I have to admit where the HSP is in power. I personally had a chance the other day to convince five demands someone put in a drawer. 5 requests but also memos sent by Mr... But unfortunately, it is an obvious practice throughout Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Something can and must be done. I suggest, as you know, the Croatian state has introduced some rules through a lot of rules, so for example, you cannot register a car if you have not paid some taxes with many other rights, let's say when you want to get a boost from the state you have to prove that you have paid the obligations. There is a possibility, and there is a Mr. Secretary, the government has mechanisms and opportunities to do something similar on this matter. And this means that those municipalities and cities that do not respond do not comply with the Law on Croatian Defence, which do not respond to what they are legally required to comply with the provisions of the law on the basis of the request of the Ministry of Defence to take some kind of sanctions and conditions for not to say blacklists. And that means I can't get a guarantee from the government and some other things that the government can deny them. There are ways to propose sanctions for the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers. This leaves a dead letter on paper, and there is no chance that a more significant issue of living care for Croatian defenders will be resolved in due time. I suggest that the government consider taking some measures that would be stimulating for cities and municipalities to meet their legal obligations and enable and communal compensation and space where possible so that we can have this most difficult problem, and the most difficult problem is in all of this, which remains the problem of housing. There are mechanisms and there is no logic that the government guarantees the city and in various segments of the Regional Development Fund there is no need and why the Government would not use its power to force certain local self-governments to comply with the law and in some way condition them. There are legal legal ways that only need political will and I suggest that you think about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71616	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71617	Mr. President, dear colleague Jukic. It is not true that the ill-informed members of the Croatian Council of Defence for an agreement that entered into force on 1 July of this year. Because from the beginning of the agreement to the end, Croatian defense defenders' associations who are in charge of informing their membership and all those who have the right to resolve and all that they have so far failed to resolve and the Croatian state is in charge of them. By means of funds for public study through, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and they are also well-informed and I hope that it will not be an obstacle to resolving what we have not solved so far. They were well informed because they participated from beginning to end in the creation of an agreement. They know from this, so I'm more in Bosnia and Herzegovina than you are in your colleague Kovacevic, you fellow Yukic. From Bosnian Posavina to... And I'm explaining what I can explain. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Thank you. All right, all right.]] Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71618	Final Review of State Secretary Tomislav Ivić. Here you go. Order there, Zdenka, peace! [[Intruder: Ma me]] Here's a final review.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71619	Thank you very much. Mr. President, the distinguished ladies of Parliament's attorney, the honourable gentlemen of the assembly. Here, on behalf of the ministry, I would like to thank you for this debate, which, however, was relatively correct and some significant remarks about the law enforcement report itself, and it was not. But here are some questions that are always discussed when it comes to any issue related to Croatian defenders and, of course, is used for political and other purposes. I must say that the issue mentioned here is the register of Croatian defenders and instead of being satisfied that 10 years after the end of the war we have for the first time the register of Croatian defenders. That question is being potentiated in a negative way from where half a million defenders are coming from. I think that number was supposed to be smaller or bigger and so on. This is not a matter of one's opinion but a matter of fact and not of one's opinion came to this number, but it was based on a record that existed in the MUP and MOTH by joining and cleansing records and what we all forget when we talk about that number is that the war in Croatia lasted practically six years and that never at any time in the Croatian Army troops was there, of course, half a million people. But during the six years of the war, at least six generations of Croatian citizens have gone through different troops of the Croatian Army, and that is why, among other things, the number is as it is and it is illusory to talk about the number of Croatian defenders in that sense, I think that number should be one or the same. And secondly, Mr Pancic, when you mentioned it, you had the opportunity and the legal obligation in your mandate to create a register of Croatian defenders and I do not understand why you failed to fulfil this legal obligation. When it comes to the increase in the number of persons with the status of a Croatian military disabled, I must say that there are two reasons why the number of people with disabilities has been increased year by year. One of the reasons is that at least three thousand Croatian defenders regained that status after the Croatian Defence Ministry abolished their status through various audits and the administrative court's lawsuits again gave them status. This is one of the reasons why the number of Croatian military disableds has increased. The second reason is that the extended deadlines of the new law and the deadline for submission of applications were 31.12.2005, and that is the second reason why the number of Croatian military disableds was increased. But I think the most common speculation is that there will be 60 or 50 or 70 thousand Croatian military disableds. This is what we will see when this process is completed, that is, when all the requests that were submitted during 2005 are processed. What Mr. Jukic was also talking about, I can say that somewhere around 30,000 have submitted requests to determine the disability procedure, which of course does not mean that everyone will get the status of a Croatian military disabled. Most of them will not be granted status, but we must also be aware that it cannot be determined by how many Croatia can have wartime military disableds, but it is a question of whether or not someone achieves the rules laid down by law in order to achieve the status of a Croatian military disabled. Likewise, when discussing the rulebook, or the criteria for the allocation of shares in the Croatian Defence Fund, you must know that the preparation of these criteria was attended by representatives of Homeland War Associations, that the criteria were discussed and co-ordinated by the Associations of Homeland War that agreed with such criteria, and I am surprised by what Mr Kurt said, that 90% of the defenders were dissatisfied with these criteria. It's just not true. The fact is that it is very difficult to adopt criteria that will satisfy half a million people and that no matter what the criteria are that always the objections will be on the criteria. Then some of the questions that were asked through the debate. Why not include representatives of defence associations in Ina and Telekom in the Supervisory Boards. It will be included, of course, that it is a legal procedure, the assembly that appoints it, but the government sent what it was supposed to send on its own behalf, so it is expected that the issue will be resolved very quickly. We have warned since the beginning of taking responsibility for the management of the ministry for the extremely poor quality of housing for the victims of the Homeland War, and indeed there have been everything and everything, and as far as I know about some of the facilities that have preceded the poor quality in this status, the question of accountability will also be raised and judicial proceedings. What should be particularly emphasized here is that we have begun rebuilding the housing for the victims of the Homeland War to... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] If we had restarted the construction of apartments for the victims of the Homeland War, the fact is that nearly five years no new building was launched. As regards the agreement with Croatia concerning the status of members of the Croatian Defence Council. I think those to whom the agreement applies are well-informed in the BiH, as this issue has been discussed for a long time. And the fact is that the agreement was signed in the 12th month, therefore, seven full months ago and that the status of a Croatian citizen could be gained in the meantime. Here, in the end, thank you very much for the debate, on these suggestions that we will consider, of course. I hope you adopt this law enforcement report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71620	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Ivica Pančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71621	I didn't mean to react, but since Mr. Secretary of State called me, I'd like to correct an incorrect assumption even though there are more. Mr. Secretary of State wonders why you failed to fulfil this legal obligation regarding the register by suggesting clearly that it was not made. The register as you today have such qualities was completed in 2003. Of course, like today, you don't have it completely finished. Only then it was 403 or 406 grand, and today I don't know how it grew to 500 grand. That was the basis on which you made this existing register. And if I'd known you were so bothered by what all Croatian defenders were asking a question here, then I wouldn't have asked that question.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71622	Peace. Peace, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71623	And next time I'll let you write the report...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71624	First of all, fellow Pancic. This is not a correction to an incorrect quote, an "and" from the correction of an incorrect quote. This was an objection. The secretary of state asked a rhetorical question why you, as minister, didn't make that defence registry. And you're responding to a correction of an incorrect quote and you're commenting on your reasons, but that's not a correction to an incorrect quote. Please. I'm closing the debate. Report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2005. I am giving the vote the following conclusion: A report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2005 is hereby adopted. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 81 votes and 22 abstentions, the proposed conclusion. The Committee on War Veterans proposed the following conclusion: The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to take measures to address the problems of those Croatian defenders who use salary compensation due to sick leave under the applicable regulations of the 96th year, i.e. to which the fee is determined according to the corresponding salary at the time of the development and does not follow the movement of salaries in the Croatian Army. The government states that this proposal should not be accepted as it is very difficult and practically difficult to implement. I am voting and proposing this conclusion. Please engage. Please vote. The result? 18 for, 10 abstentions, 63 against. He didn't get the necessary majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71627	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. It is known that in March of this year we brought the National Programme for the Prevention of Corruption. The programme provides that we will establish a National Council to monitor the implementation of the National Programme. That is why we propose to the Parliament to make a decision on the establishment of a National Council to monitor the implementation of the National Corruption Prevention Programme. This would be one co-ordinated body that would monitor and monitor the implementation of the programme, monitor corruption data, analyse the report of the competent authorities, propose measures, encourage and direct the co-operation of parliaments and other state bodies. This National Council would consist of presidents and 10 members. The president would be elected from the ranks of opposition MPs, with the chairman of the 4 members of the National Council being elected from the ranks of MPs, 2 from parliamentary majority representatives, and 2 from parliamentary minority representatives. Employers, trade unions, NGOs dealing with the problem of corruption, the academic community, experts and media propose a national council per member based on a public call. The National Council shall adopt its Rules of Procedure. Once a year, the Parliament reports on its work. This is one significant body that we think we should certainly form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71628	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a decision on a National Council to monitor the implementation of the National Corruption Prevention Programme. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 73 votes for, 14 abstentions and 4 against, a proposed decision was made.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71631	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. On 25 February 2005, the Croatian Parliament adopted a National Consumer Protection Programme for the period 2005-2006, which sets out the basic consumer protection policies for a specific period and carries out the selection and scope of priority tasks in the area of consumer protection to be financed from the budget. The government of the Republic of Croatia reports once a year by the Croatian Parliament on the achievement of consumer protection policies in the National Programme over the past year. The Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, as the body responsible for consumer protection affairs, produced the report in question in cooperation with the members of the Consumer Protection Council and accepted it at the Council meeting held on 11 April 2006. The report shall consist of a text and tabular section, which shall specify exactly what tasks are achieved under the National Programme, in areas of public services, health services, health and food quality, product safety, education, information, trade, financial services in banking, environmental protection, tourism and catering. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, it is necessary to say that the proposed Annual Report on the achievement of the National Consumer Protection Programme as a document covers one of the priority areas of civil society, which shows that almost all tasks have been largely achieved. Which allows us to progress further in relations with the European Union, until our country enters full membership. The adoption of this Report will have a significant impact on the position of consumers in the Republic of Croatia in a positive sense as well as on the obligations of economic operators in this area. So I suggest you accept the Annual Report on the Implementation of the National Consumer Protection Programme 2005-2006 in 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71632	The committees? Nothing. I'm opening a debate. HNS representative club, respected representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71633	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. To begin with, I would suggest to the Proposer to withdraw this Annual Report and allow us to discuss far more fully and seriously in the autumn of the Report, because I remind you that it is a report that speaks of the implementation of the National Consumer Protection Programme, and Croatia also has a Consumer Protection Act based on which this plan was also adopted and which states that the Parliament is considering these reports. Looking at bureaucratically and administratively, it meets all the conditions of some standards and reporting, however, it does not answer a single question why we have passed the Consumer Rights Act and a specific programme. Why the Ministry established the Consumer Protection Council as the advisory body of the Minister. Therefore, the National Consumer Protection Council at the Ministry is the advisory body of the Minister and if I have found all the data well because they operate in greater illegality than the POA, SOA and when it is called the new intelligence services of our OSA, it is not OSA because I have barely reached the list of members of that council 25, 27 members is now if I am not wrong in that council that I do not believe that a consumer in Croatia has heard that there is and let alone know who the members are, where they are based, what they are doing and what advice they have given to the Minister so far because there is not a word in the report. So, did the Council give a single advice to the Minister on the basis of which the action plan or activity may not be a minister which is neither necessary but the other institutions in the area of consumer protection did anything. The report mentions in the area of consumer rights protection there is also a court of honour in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Court of Honor in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. I have found the addresses and names of members and presidents of these courts of honor through the Internet, but if they had advertised in public at least 1% of the ads that go for toothbrushes or Always cartridges, at least 1% of the consumers in Croatia would have known that such honors exist and that they can be addressed if they feel or think that there has been a breach of consumer rights regardless of whether it is a craftsman or someone who is a member under the law under the influence of an economic chamber. There is a consumer protection department in the ministry, a special department, and if I have the right information, they even have a phone and fax and special departments for the national programme and for associations and consumer counselling, and that department has a chief and departments have bosses, I guess, only names are not listed and functions, but they say it is Ruža Meker and Djema Bartulovic. That's the exact data. There. So we have the Consumer Protection Department, the National Programme Department, and I assume this section is the author of this report and the Consumer Protection Association and Advisory Department. This is all that we finance from the state budget, what we have foreseen by law, by law, by law of the programme or by the institutions. However, they are not available to consumers in this country provided that someone is not persistent and boring and that through the "National Journals" they also do not know this membership, conspiratory addresses of action, telephone numbers, email address and powers imagine that consumers can report to them in order to protect their rights. What are they doing all these institutions I've listed? Namely, the report has its introduction, so the assessment of the situation and now on page three listed if I have counted thirty-two laws and sublegal regulations that regulate consumer protection in Croatia. Then we have says the construction of administrative capacity which is called to have a department in the ministry, so we have departments of two, and then the Consumer Protection Council, and then two courts honor the operation of even consumer protection associations that are 19 in Croatia. 19, there is no record of them, that consumer counselling centres, which were not organised by the state, but by consumer protection organisations, are said to have been established in Zagreb if I did not cheat in Rijeka and Osijek and that the number of items that these consultants or associations received in 2005 was 4 thousand 249. How many of these consumer complaints were justified against which traders or producers, what are those violations of consumer rights in Croatia, which are the most common forms of playing the Consumer Protection Act, which are sanctioned by the state authorities against those who violate consumer rights, how many sanctions are given to fines in prisons, warnings, conditional convictions, whether they are trade chains of foreign ownership or domestic trade chains, whether they are foreign producers who falsely declare foreign producers who produce for the Croatian market unlike those on the market of EU members, how much damage they have done to consumers in that year and what advice they are to consumers in Croatia to protect their rights. After that report again, a review of the carrier's tasks on a dozen pages that I could not understand at all and understand what it was about but essentially, I did not understand what you were calling out to me. ... Nothing? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's what I expected. So, what about consumer rights? What effect of the programme and the law was achieved in the first year of application? Whether these 19 consumer protection associations are the only institutions to which citizens, four-and-a-half million citizens and citizens we have turned into a minority community in this country in this report have become a minority who has no ability to protect their rights if he does not speak to a civil society if he finds out about it and if somewhere near his place of residence he is lucky that this association exists and that he is working and has a telephone, a duty officer trained to give him legal advice. When we discussed the State Inspectorate Report and when the law was passed, I warned, let's say, one provision of the law that products placed in retail must have a declaration if import is of import and product quality. Unlike these other European states, it does not say in our law that the declaration must be written that you can read it but that it must be written. Go to the first supermarket when you go home tonight, take any product from the import of the food item and try to read the text of the declaration without an increase and glasses. Try reading who the importer is, when the product is manufactured, as long as its duration is satisfied with the certificates, the quality of food products for the Croatian market. Microscope, fellow Jarnjak exactly. I propose to all Croatian consumers when they go to the store tomorrow to carry microscopes if they want to read the declarations, because according to our law, the declaration does not have to be written in a way that the consumer can read it. Look at the law, compare Slovenian law, Austrian, German, American where it clearly says that the size of letters must be legible. We don't have those provisions. When it was law we gave the amendments and said listen to the people, but both the old people and the pensioners who go to the glasses store can't read this anymore. ... Who's the president? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So I want to believe that there are no illiterates in Croatia who could not read the declaration. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let's say I guess, I want to believe that there are no Croatian citizens as illiterate as you might not be able to read it. When does the term of use of food products expire? Read on the declarations, try to read on the import goods. In these same trade chains that entered Croatia with 10 benefits, where somewhere mayors or city authorities at the expense of domestic trade chains have kindly given city land, signed all local municipal obligations and allowed market freedom in a way that behaves not as they behave in countries where they came from, but will abuse our law. Second, what about the prices? Does the product on the shelf have to have a price on it or is it enough to write the price on the edge of the shelf? What does the Consumer Protection Act say? Mr. Secretary of State, does the product have to have a price on it or on the shelf? Look at the products on the shelves and those codes, so when the price is 10% higher than what you read on the shelf. Who can you contact at that time? What if the account does not match the content of the purchased goods, to whom can you contact then? Who works at 7:00 p.m. for a customer at a service found in a trade chain, a supermarket in a craftsman or a company? What if he buys rotten milk, to whom he can take it the second day, because the third day every milk will be broken. Does it not seem to you, therefore, that this report is also a form of meeting the requirements of our European negotiators because it is screening about consumer protection in progress. Doesn't it seem to you that we missed the chance to use some of the positive experiences we've had here in Parliament? Does a Croatian citizen have to agree to expose the terror of written advertising fliers that various agencies traders and producers rape him on us by putting and throwing in our mailboxes, behind the door, into the door, on the stairs, on the fences even? They act completely under the law because unlike the European Union countries where this is allowed only if I have allowed Croatia as a consumer under Croatian law and I, as a consumer, must write a ban on delivery of this. That's what the law says. What about mass e-mails? In our consumer rights law, it says that if someone wants to fax you a commercial that they must have your previous consent, by fax, but if they e-mail you mass messages in which the sender is hidden, they don't need your consent in advance because those who wrote the e-mail bill never heard clearly. In some countries, it is a criminal offence when e-mail is abused. In Croatia, it is not even prohibited. I repeat my proposal. This report does not speak in any sentence about the effects of consumer rights protection. It discusses legislation, administrative capacity and expected impacts. This is not a report on consumer protection but on the work of 10 government bureaucrats and 28 members of the imaginary council who advise the minister. This is not for the benefit of consumers, but for the satisfaction of the form and for this reason we will not support this report, but it can be avoided. Please withdraw this, make us a report on the state of consumer protection in this country showing those who violate, with a display of sanctions and penalties, with a view to what you suggest that we change in law and programme in order for the Croatian consumer to be protected from terrorism on the market every day.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71634	Thanks a lot, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71635	You're on.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71636	Well, your time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71637	My colleague Vice President's time hasn't run out yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71638	No, not for discussion on behalf of the club. We're moving on to an individual debate. There's a respected colleague named Vesna Skara Ozbolt. She's not in the hall. He's losing his voice on this subject. It's my dear colleague Doric's turn, please, you have your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71639	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here I will minimise my exposure and, not only will I stick to a group of consumers who are very close to Mr. Vrankovic and me, here I have deliberately chosen consumers and olive oil users to demonstrate on this example how our consumers are protected and where we still have to make a lot of moves to really protect them. My colleagues and colleagues, I want you to remember first the number one data to produce about 3 million gallons of olive oil in Croatia today, but how much oil do we import into Croatia? We're importing a little under 2 million gallons. So 40% of the olive oil sold in Croatia is imports. What should be remembered further is the origin of these imports. The origins are Cyprus, Tunisia, Morocco, so North Africa. I would also like to say if you know what the price of olive oil in North Africa is and what is its quality? The price is between EUR 2 and EUR 3 per litre. I repeat EUR 2 and EUR 3 per litre, and I do not want to talk about quality. 90% of the oil imported into Croatia and 2 million litres are almost imported 90% are imported rinfuzely, therefore not packaged. And why it's imported rinfuzely. Because it is imported with the aim of further processing. What is the fate of these 2 million liters of olive oil in Croatia? In our own facilities. They're stabilized with E vitamin. Then you add chlorophyll for color, add a little of domestic olive oil for taste, and thus the oil is prepared. 2 million liters of almost garbage is arranged to a phase that can be released through some parameters into our stores and what does the label say? He writes co-workers and fellow extra virgins. So the most quality possible oil that exists on this planet can only be marked with extra virgin. There are a dozen parameters to be strictly respected in order to be called extra virgin oil. What I would further like to say and ask and talk to you is it possible to import such oil into Croatia at all? The colleagues and colleagues of Croatia have a rule on olive oil. It's a little bit different, it's a bit more complex, but I'm calling it the olive oil rule. That rule clearly states the categories. Extra virgin, virgin, oil intended or refined and so on and so forth. Now do you know why oil so low can be introduced into us? Because believe it or not customs tariffs are completely out of line with the rules on olive oil. And you can bring in a lot of things. Customs tariffs have their terms, and the rules on olive oil have a completely different title. It's a general shame. And that's why two million gallons of that kind of oil goes into our market. The fourth information whether we respect at least after the oil is finished, is processed under quotes, at least later on, a rule on the quality of olive oil. Because yesterday we talked about the rules, so a colleague assured me that the rules existed, that they were constantly dressed up and that they were respected. My colleagues and colleagues, can you ask me and the secretary of state if you can list one single laboratory in a Croatian state-owned institution that has the equipment necessary to determine all parameters in order to comply with the quality of oil with the standards of the European Union? I know a private lab. I knew this lab that was on wheels and it's parked neatly today and it's not using anything. Not even a vehicle registered. No, there isn't. It exists in one private drive but you can't let one private company control another company because it will clearly disqualify itself. As for olive oil, I want to give you another message. There are not only important biochemical analyses of the state secretary's oil quality. There are important and organoleptic properties of this product. I don't know if we're aware of the facts of colleagues and colleagues, I can see that this is already completely uninteresting and that no one is following what I'm saying anymore, but today in Croatia we don't have a single official olive oil taster. We don't have it. And that's part of the routine of estimating the quality of olive oil. We don't have a system to essentially educate and give people the right to be the tasters of olive oil. We don't have a single one in the whole state. The fifth information, and it's related to what Mr. Lesar was saying, and that's a clear declaration. Many of those oils that I said were of import origin, which are made up of our plants on the declaration, you will never find a real country of origin for the largest part of the contents of that bottle. Because it's such a mix that it's a miracle. And what's most important is to say, Mr. Secretary of State, do you know when such oil is put on the market that it has the right to be encouraged by 10 kunas per litre? That kind of oil that was imported, that almost 2 million gallons. Therefore, we are essentially jeopardizing such products with consumer health. We're jeopardizing the consumer's pocket. And we're jeopardizing the country's pocket. And no one's doing anything. Why is it such a co-worker and a co-worker? Because obviously someone's okay with it, someone made a deal with someone like that, and that's how it is. But there is always a solution and I offer a solution and the solution is always in us to people who are in charge of pointing and solving such problems. Well, Mr. Secretary of State, I invite you, I invite the Minister of Agriculture Mr. Cobankovic and I personally to take the three of us for a walk in Zagreb and each of us to choose 5 liters of olive oil per yours, by the minister and by my choice from the shelves of Zagreb shops. Then we send these 15 liters to an independent world laboratory in Rome, Barcelona, Marseilles. You choose where. And if what's written on the declaration corresponds to the content then I resign and permanently withdraw from politics. If one of the bottles doesn't match the declaration then I expect you and Mr. Secretary to permanently withdraw from politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71640	Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Probably tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71641	Annual report on the implementation of the "National Consumer Protection Programme 2005-2006." in 2005. I am voting on the following conclusion: The above-mentioned annual report is accepted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 72 votes in favour, 15 abstentions and 6 against the proposed report.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71642	- Programme and financial report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2005; you received the report in accordance with the Law by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. You received their reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? No, I don't. Thank you very much for the president of the Croatian Olympic Committee. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Does a government official want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We've been registered to the SDP Club by a respected colleague, Biserka Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71643	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. President of the Croatian Olympic Committee, colleagues and colleagues! As already seen from the cover of this report in 2005, the Mediterranean Games in Almeria as well as the final preparatory actions for the 2006 Winter Olympics in Turin. First of all, I would like to express my congratulations to all more or less known athletes and athletes who in 2005 achieved high rankings in domestic and international competitions in individual and team performances in all age categories, in which detailed data are given in the brochure "Great Day of Croatian Sports" and statistics show that there are two competitions more than in 2004 and a total of 345 international competitions and 92 medals were won than in 2004 and 282 medals, respectively. I would also like to congratulate on behalf of the SDP Club and my personal name on the Croatian Olympic Committee on the acquired ISO Quality Management Certificate. Although it is noted that the Croatian Olympic Committee has successfully implemented the planned annual programme, I must underline that the programme has been planned and implemented in accordance with the financial means available, which does not mean that the programme would not be more ambitious and greater that the resources available were greater. On this occasion, I would like to remind my colleagues and the Croatian public that we are still at the beginning of the European countries after we are singled out for sport from the state budget. For comparison, the annual sports budget of the Republic of Croatia amounts to about 9% of the allocation for culture and the total allocation for sport from the state budget is less than the annual budget of the Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb. Looking at this data achieved by sports are so much more valuable. When it comes to the status issues of athletes, I must say that there are still certain shortcomings in updating the records of categorized athletes, as well as the release of new solutions on categorisation or the extension of categorized athletes' status. In fact, we at the SDP Club think that athletes and their results should be registered in the database according to the received request for the issue of a categorisation solution and, if this is about the extension of the status automatically after the expiry of the old solution, issue a new one without a re-requirement or whole administrative procedure, and that the newly categorised athletes are spotlessly issued a solution without unnecessary waiting, which is sometimes extended for several months, given the fact that it is a purely technical problem and that the introduction into the records and printing of the solution does not take more than five minutes. There is also still a certain disagreement in the functioning of individual services within the HOO, so, for example, the same results data should be provided to a special associate in sport programmes, especially categorisation services, rather than to be delivered to one place in the database where they should be available to all services. I also pointed to these problems yesterday at a meeting with representatives of the Croatian Olympic Committee, and I hope that they will be removed in the near future. Furthermore, the 2003 report then again mentioned for 2004 the creation of new criteria for the categorization of athletes and it is not known that they have been completed until today even though we have already stepped into the second half of 2006. With the adoption of the new Sport Act, I am afraid that the new criteria will be met in 2007. It is commendable to continue to encourage and promote the idea of olympic among children and young people throughout Croatia and especially its implementation through IV. The Olympic children's kindergarten festival of Croatia. The cooperation of individual services of the Croatian Olympic Committee, national sports alliances and units of local self-government according to the Olympic Academy programme shall implement a programme of training of sports personnel as well as joint programmes of the HOO and local communities. As much of the funds for these programmes remained unused in 2005, the need for better promotion of these activities in the local environments is imposed. As regards the health care of athletes, it is commendable that the Croatian Olympic Committee implements a whole series of activities aimed at improving health care and ensuring athletes, given that through the new Sport Act and through the national health strategy, there is virtually no attention to the problem, although it is over 400,000 active athletes, which is close to 10% of the population of the Republic of Croatia. Praise is worth a systematic and comprehensive approach to the preparation and organisation of our athletes' performances at multisports events. This refers in particular to the performance of our athletes in Mediterranean games where twenty-six medals were won. This approach has also resulted in successful performances at the Winter Olympics in Turin this year, and I hope that the long-term results of this approach will be summed up by successes at the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing. The results of athletes covered by individual programmes of special care for young people indicate that such programs are necessary and useful and therefore justified. The only thing I would object to about this activity of the Croatian Olympic Committee is the fact that it covers only 17 sports. In the SDP, we believe that activities and programmes should be extended to a number of sports and individual users according to the performance of sports as the first criterion, thus adapting the existing criteria and that the current categorisation of sports is merely a criterion of number two. With the more aggressive performance of the Croatian Olympic Committee towards national alliances, which are often treated very casually and recklessly with these programmes would include a number of young athletes. As far as the coaching programme is concerned, the idea itself is a good idea, but as the report states, its actual effects will be visible only after the 2008 Olympic cycle. A detailed description of the activities of individual bodies of the Croatian Olympic Committee as well as the results of their work removed the lack of report this year, which took note of the SDP Club's observation from the discussion of last year's report on the taxation of activities and without giving concrete results of these activities, and can express further satisfaction with the quality of this report. This relates equally to activities at national level as well as international cooperation programmes. We at the SDP Club hold positive and follow-up of numerous Olympic solidarity programmes with the goal of achieving a career in sport after a full active sports career, opening up opportunities for more active athletes to pass their experiences on to young people and stay in sport after they stop active sports. I hope to launch projects in information within the HO system in future work will help better connect certain services that I have already said when I spoke about the status and categorization of athletes. As far as marketing activities are concerned, we at the SDP Club are assessing the positive results of the activities undertaken, but we also feel that there is something more to be done at the promotion of so-called. small sports, i.e. media less monitored and less attractive sports in order to bring their activities and skills closer to a greater number of young people, especially young people, as well as to improve their work through the results of marketing activities. When we talk about publishing, all the actions as well as published publications are commendable, but I must mention this occasion that more attention should be paid to the accuracy, i.e. the revision of the published data in order to avoid unwanted data errors as they were stolen and when the results were published in the brochure "The Great Day of Croatian Sports". Let me also mention a few words about the media presentation, i.e. the web pages of the HO. Although the documents on the pages and the pages themselves are a very good editing I have a comment on the statistics. In fact, we also give him the SDP that more attention should be paid to the data on the number of active athletes in certain sports branches or sports activities on the number of professional sports staffs by sports on the total number of categorized athletes by sports and categories by sports and categories, etc. What is now on the pages of the Croatian Olympic Committee, unfortunately there is none. Data on categorized athletes should also be updated so that no one who has a category is not listed, and some can be found in more places. I also think that more should be done to ensure a better presence of HOO in public media, as well as greater activity of the Croatian Olympic Committee in media affirmation of less attractive sports, especially those who are able to achieve the observed international results. And to say a few words about Croatia's Olympic Academy. The activities of the Croatian Olympic Academy Education Centre are commendable for training and professional training of sports personnel. However, I must warn of the need to adapt these programmes and implement activities in accordance with the new Sport Act. In the context of these activities, it is necessary to find a way that the Croatian Olympic Academy would enter the system of training coaches in sport in order to avoid shutting down individual clubs over a transitional period that concerns training coaches for independent sport work under the new law. Finally, to look back on the financial part of this report. It immediately falls into the eyes of the state budget revenue item, which has remained 26% of the plan for multisport events, i.e. from the planned 17.9 million kuna, only 4.7 million or 13.2 million less than the plan, which alone speaks to itself about the so prominent sport parole as activities of particular state interest. It is obvious that state support in sport remains actually at a declarative level, and sport as a special state interest is only a parole. Fortunately, the good organisation of the work on the promotion of the Croatian Olympic Committee and increased revenues from gambling and unallocated surpluses from 2003 and 2004 is covered by the deficit. I must point out that the analysis of the implementation of the programme by users of the day is very transparent and that it shows an increase in resources for users of 31 million kuna or 72% compared to 2004, which also speaks of the success of the Croatian Olympic Committee's marketing programme. And let me get this straight. The 2005 programme and financial report as a document is much more quality and content than last year, and the results achieved and the financial indicators confirm that. Therefore, the SDP club will support this report, hoping that Mr Mateša will respect and apply our observations in your future work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71644	Stay a colleague. You have a report in five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71645	Thank you very much. I've come to say everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71646	Okay. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Would the president of the Croatian Olympic Committee like to take his word? No, I don't. Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Olympic Committee. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this wheel tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71647	Programme and financial report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2005. I am voting on the following conclusion: The Programme and Financial Report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2005 is hereby adopted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 90 votes for, 2 abstentions, the proposed conclusion was accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71648	My colleagues and colleagues, we are moving on to - Annual report on the business of the Croatian Small Economy Agency for 2005. You received the materials by mail. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction. You received his report at the session. The government delivered an opinion. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? No, I don't. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. A representative of the government? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. So far, no one's been reported for questioning. Is anyone applying? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. And we'll vote on this wheel tomorrow. Thank you for your visit.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71649	Annual report on Croatia's small economy business for 2005. I give the vote the following conclusion: The proposed annual report shall be adopted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 86 for, 8 abstentions and one against, a proposed report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71650	We move to the next item of the agenda - Annual report on the work of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data for 2005. ... This next one. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yeah, well, that's the next point now. You received the materials by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Information, Information and Media. You received their reports at the session. The government has delivered its opinion. Does the Proposer want a representative? No, I don't. Do the rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. Does a government official want to take a word for it? No, I don't. On behalf of the HNS Club, a respected colleague, Chichin-Shain, applied. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71651	I must admit that this nightmare debate is largely driven by the fact that Mr. Lacko used to be my boss, so I'd like to show a special respect for him and gratitude for everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71652	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71653	And the MPs can? So the development of modern society sensitized the relationship to information. There has always been information available to the general public and data reserved to certain individuals, and they were called so-called. Secrets. The protection of personal or other data is without question a problem of the availability of information. In fact, the development of democracy in the world created special relations with different types of information created in the administration and obtained the right of each individual to information contained in public administration documents. This would highlight the transparency of the modern administration. At the same time, personal data protection is stressed, thereby protecting the privacy and integrity of every human being, the characteristics of every human being. The development of information technology, the emergence of the Internet and electronic business created unlimited opportunities for accessing privacy and the misuse of personal data. The state has to do something to protect the citizens. Systematic protection of personal data is increasingly necessary and thus the establishment of a uniform standard of protection. This area was quite neglected in 2003, only the Personal Data Protection Act was passed. The practice of the protection of personal data until the adoption of this Act was contrary to the traditions and acquiss of the European Union. The members of the European Union began to present themselves 30 years ago, to pass laws that lay the foundation, to general access to the protection of personal data, regardless of the aspect of privacy. In Croatia there are regulations that protect privacy scattered in a number of different laws. Citizens do not even know when their rights are violated, they are not aware of how much privacy they enjoy in certain cases, who and when they need to deny their data and so on. There are also doubts about what is exactly a personal data that needs to be protected. Personal information is information about the identity of a natural person. In modern society, as it is stated, the development of information and communication technologies and their application enables fast, but also... the collection of distribution and use of all personal data which can in any way lead to abuse. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Any abuse of personal data is a violation of the right to personal data as one of the possible rights of privacy, such as the right to life, the right to physical and social health, the reputation, honor, dignity, family life, freedom and all other rights. For all of these reasons and knowledge of the need to protect personal data as a right to personality, the Data Protection Act has been adopted. The personal data protection institution monitors the collection, processing and use of data is the personal data protection agency. The conscious needs of data protection have developed as a result of the major threat caused by the strong and rapid development of information technology. About half a century ago or before to collect information about residents of Zagreb's size took a very long time and a very large space for their accommodation. Now the data for such a million city can fit in almost one smaller coffin. From where we see the dangers of citizens' privacy because their data can be transmitted to the unwanted place at the moment. The Agency for the Protection of Personal Data as an independent institution is responsible for the Croatian Parliament. Its task is to protect the data of Croatian citizens within the borders of the Republic of Croatia, but also beyond. In modern times, personal data travels around the world very often, for example, some multinational companies will send messages, data from Croatia to their offices around the world. In this respect, it is one of the tasks of this Agency to ensure that these data are sent only to those countries that have regulated data protection. Personal data should not be sent from Croatia to countries that do not have such an organisation, or such protection. In today's society that operates and lives in the turbulence of the general globalisation of the extremely dynamic development of applications and the use of information and communication technologies on the one hand, and the free movement of people, goods and capital on the other hand, the collection and storage, processing and distribution of all kinds of data in this context and personal perceptions of unprecedented proportions. Information technologies make our lives easier and faster. Have we asked ourselves this despite what price? Is someone following us online? Did our computer or system attack hackers? Do we receive too many unwanted e-mails? I'll bet all MPs receive one large amount of unwanted mail. If our personal data is collected in the sale of companies and corporations without our knowledge and consent. The United Nations Declaration and the Charter of Fundamental Human Rights of the European Union defines privacy as one of the fundamental human rights. In modern and orderly democracies, the definition of privacy includes the inalienable right to determine the use of our data in view of the permanent growth in the security and fraud that is happening in the network. The users of companies and state institutions are increasingly concerned about the protection of individuals' privacy. However, while Croatia has the Data Protection Act, it is very often poorly applied, and even more frequently it violates. Based on experience gained during the surveillance of personal data protection in collection, use and processing managers, the most frequent infringements of the Law regarding the collection of personal data without the consent of the subjects, the greater extent of the collection of personal data than the necessary non-recognition of subjects with the purpose of the collection, not the erasure of personal data by the purpose of which they are collected, the non-recognition of subjects with the use of personal data for marketing purposes, the failure to provide records of personal data collections in the Central Registry and a series of other irregularities. Let's just say one example. We often witness marketing attacks on citizens with auxiliary personal data collected from quite other sources. It is particularly unethical when producers and distributors, for example, send children’s food to parents advertising brochures and products, and if they do so without the express consent of parents, they act contrary to the Personal Data Protection Act. Also, given the relatively recent events that put terrorism at the top of the list of threats to modern countries, the issue of data protection has been extremely up-to-date. In such cases, we have nothing more to ask for balance between the need to collect some data for security reasons and to keep our privacy protected. I thank you, and I cut it short.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71654	Thank you very much, dear colleague. On behalf of the HSP Club, dear colleague Tonci Tadic. Here's a colleague of Tonči Tadic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71655	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, Your Honor, Mr. Representative of the Croatian Government. I didn't intend to report at this late afternoon hour to allow us to speed up the debate on all the other points that are waiting for us. But you'll forgive us not even late in Parliament can stop me from putting out one of our club's basic objections to this report. So, during last year, the Croatian Banking Association decided to form a Croatian Loan Liaison Register. It was a database that should actually circulate among banks data on the responsibilities of citizens in banks. When I opened an account in one of the banks or any of you opened an account in one of the banks, you did not give the bank the right to freely circulate with your data either to the abroad or to Croatian banks, or to banks within Croatia. Knowing that certain banks have also established their own insurance companies for the second pillar of pension insurance, which were practically all Croatian banks. You have one terrible merger of banks with pension insurance, with insurance companies. On the other hand, we are in a situation where the Croatian Credit Liaison Register will have better information about Croatian citizens than the Croatian State itself. I warned in the press of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, which did not even escape the fact that the Croatian Banks Association established it nor was it obvious or directed by any protest to the Croatian Banks' Association to do so without asking the Agency. You'll forgive the Personal Data Protection Act when someone creates their own database they have to ask the agency to do the other thing, they have to register with that database. No one in this country, not even a party, can create a database of anyone without asking that person and asking the agency if they can do it, and here you have a system that actually knows everything about all Croatian citizens, not only how much pay you have but what you spend it on, how healthy you are, how many people you have in your family and how healthy they are and what you bought and what you can even buy. I was expecting a respected sir, that we'd get some kind of indication in this report, but unfortunately there's no sign of it, and that's why our counsel club won't support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71656	Thank you very much, colleague Tadic. We're moving on to an individual debate. First in line is the esteemed Vesna Scare Ozbolt. She's gone. He's losing his voice on this subject. We don't have any more logs. Here you go, final statement on the question, representative, director of the agency Mr. Lacko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71657	Dear Mr. Chairman, distinguished MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Here I would now answer to the honourable representative that the Banks Act was passed here in this House, meaning behind the Personal Data Protection Act, or there are broad powers to the banks in particular the provision of Article 99, so when it comes to the possibility of their action and where there is therefore data protection. Further to look directly at this... means that register. [[You don't understand.]] So they announced it, but they don't have it. So the agency stood up, so I'm not in it... because one thing you know to announce and the other is to have it. So they don't have it yet, if they have it illegally. So that's what they're preparing him for. Several of these meetings were held by the presidents of the agency who drew their attention to what could not be in the register, i.e. how these data would be kept and so on. Thirdly, there's something else I'd have to do when it comes to the agency's ability to monitor. The fact is that in a few places means we couldn't determine so easily because there were lawyers involved in supervision and we are now increasing the meaning of our staff in general and learning therefore and how it is done in foreign countries because only there can we gain some experience, we are now in control of the so-called experts and we will only in practice see if they can, because I say that in this country no one has done so yet. So will one general provision that gives us that possibility, how will it work in practice that our IT enters their system? That's what we're gonna have to see. And thirdly, I still have to say something to the honourable representative, so this problem that started to occur here means there is in Slovakia, in the Czech Republic, in a number of European countries. So he's nothing different in a number of other countries, and it's not true that the agency didn't go to banks, so she went into a dozen banks, but the report only last year and a series of banks began to change their patterns, so the same data storage was shorter than they had at first, and somehow I have to say that we'll probably be here in the fourth quarter of this year before this House is going to be a proposal to amend, meaning the addition of the Personal Data Protection Act when here and you can decide means that we see better our powers, to therefore strengthen this supervisory system, but at the same time maybe to strengthen sanctions. And I'm saying when it comes to banks, then we're no exception, so there's a lot of problems, and there's something else. So this agency will probably give the government a proposal for a dozen laws next year means that those laws that do not contain personal data protection, i.e. that allow abuse. With this one other thing, so we meet here that a series of committees who wanted to get into a kind of civil relationship, a contractual relationship with banks, even begged us, means that even the agency isn't complicated, because you see in the bank every means comes voluntarily. But what the agency asked banks to do, the bank has so far actually adopted it. You will always see on every form, their form that no more can I direct thirds without your consent to that data. When it comes to transfer abroad, then there is a list of countries where we respect the European Directive, we want to become a member of the European Union, then the Convention of the same Council of Europe that we have adopted, you have ratified it here, so it means we also have to respect it, and so that means that these data can go as Mrs Chicin-Shain mentioned, therefore only those countries that have personal data protection go. But in a country that doesn't have such protection, it means absolutely always we give the impression that it can't be delivered. Here, if there's anything extra, here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71658	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, dear colleague of Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71659	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's what I'd like to correct is the inaccuracies of my colleagues when they say that the Data Protection Act gives them a pretty high authority to banks. In particular, data in banks are secret and personal to the extent that neither the bank's audit nor the privatisation audit can be carried out, and even the state's audit cannot be accessed by banks. At the same time, I don't think that's the case in all the other countries because as you know when you need to find out about Conto Alcaida then by the U.S. government it's no problem to find out about that conto in one of the Swiss banks. So I think there's hypocrisy in that segment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71660	Probably when it comes to our banks. Correction of an incorrect quote, counterpart Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71661	The Honorable gentleman, speaking on behalf of the Personal Data Protection Agency, mentioned that there are allegations that the banks have and are working on it, but that they do not have official data on it for the time being. We at the HSP Club expected that you would be based on newspaper inscriptions, and I could give them a raise if you wanted, at least five, about how the register was about to start, you should have already exercised control of it. On behalf of the HSP Club, I will send you a written request for written proof of the Croatian Credit Register with a request to indicate in response the problems and shortcomings of the existing Personal Data Protection Act for which you cannot react, but the reactions on your part must be.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71662	I support you, Tonchi, to send this memo, but at the same time, I must warn you that this is not a correction of an incorrect quote, but a new opinion. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this wheel tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71663	Annual report on the work of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data for 2005. I am voting on the following conclusion: an annual report on the work of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data for 2005 is hereby adopted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 86 for, 7 abstentions, one against, accepted proposed report.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71664	We move to the next item - The report on the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals for 2005 You received the report by mail. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. We don't have any reports. Anybody want to sign up? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. And we'll vote on this wheel tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71665	Report on the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals for 2005. I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals for 2005 is hereby adopted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 96 votes in favour and 4 abstentions, the proposed report was accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71666	We move to – - Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Public Roads – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of HSP, first reading of P.Z. No. 488 You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Communications. You received the report at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Would the proposing representative like to explain the proposal? Yeah. The word has a colleague, Tonči Tadic, on behalf of the club of HSP advocates of the law. Here's a colleague of Tadic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71667	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'm sorry there are no representatives of the Croatian government here. In this short proposal for a Law on Public Roads, we want to encourage one amendment to the law that would free Croatian shipowners from paying for road and highway construction fees. So it's '96. The amendments and additions of the Law on Public Roads, which extend all these 10 years, have made Croatia specific that its shipowners pay for road and highway construction in their fuel price, although neither the ferry is on the highway nor the wooden trabacle is driving on the county roads. We believe that it is best to resolve this through the amendment of the Law on Public Roads so as to ensure the return of taxes to shipowners in the amount of these kunas and 20 amounts of road and highway charges per litre of fuel plus VAT that they paid for it. Of course, there is a variant to do so through the amendments to the Taxation Act on Oil Products, but that would mean actually introducing some yellow or purple or green diesel that would be served only by shipowners and to which a special excise duty would be worth it. This way we think the procedure is far simpler. We remind you that Croatian aircraft, like others in Croatia, pours aircraft fuel with zero kuna excise duties. Croatian fishermen also have blue diesel available. We are not looking here for the introduction of a blue diesel, but we are looking for the sole removal of road and highway charges plus VAT on which to fuel for the boaters would cost about a kuna and a half. This Bill Proposal gave our Club of Representatives the incentive to ask for the coordination of shipowners' associations in the Republic of Croatia, and our Proposal for a Law in the Emergency Procedure supported 29 MPs from a whole series of parties both from the opposition and from the ruling coalition. We therefore believe that these Croatian shipmen are equating in terms of dealing with their colleagues abroad because, for example, Italians are paying a regular price of fuel of 1.16 euros per litre of diesel in Italy, and only 0.51 euros if the boaters are concerned. Here I have an original print of an Italian shipman showing that the fuel price is 0.51 euro per litre. Therefore, it is not about fuel in export, so for a shipowner who sails from Italy, then it is about the fuel that is exported but about sailing within Italian territorial waters. So we invite all the club representatives to support our bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71668	Thank you very much, dear colleague Tadic. I'm opening a debate. First in name. ... All right, all right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go. On behalf of my colleague Alenka Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71669	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Links of the Croatian Parliament at the 50th session held on 12 July 2006 discussed the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Public Roads, first reading, P.Z. 488. The Committee discussed the proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Public Roads, first reading, as a home working body, and the Committee had the written opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia at its disposal. The opening statement was given by a representative of the promoter who stressed that this bill aims to free Croatian shipowners from paying road and highway construction fees in the price of fuel, making it a first step towards a fairer fuel price for Croatian boaters. The necessary correction of the fuel price would result in the reimbursement of the compensation paid for the construction of roads and highways and the payment of VAT on that fee. He also stressed the need to equate fuel prices with other countries, such as Italy's example where the state subsidises almost half the fuel price for shipowners. The Government’s view is that this proposal should not be accepted, and it was specifically pointed out that the Law on Public Roads prescribed that compensation for the financing of construction, maintenance of public roads should be paid by producers and importers of oil products and by the competent authority of the State Department of Stocks, for lead and unleaded petrol, regardless of the octane value and the commercial name, therefore only those entities who paid it can repay the compensation. The debate expressed the view that the solution to this problem should be found in another way and that the example of Italy is not comparable since the construction of roads and highways is not financed from the fuel price in Italy. After the debate was held, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Public Roads is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71670	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS club, dear colleague Kapraljevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71671	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, we're one of the HNS Clubs is one of the ones that didn't sign. Here's Alenka signed, but I know that I'm one of those who's been offered, who refused to sign it for the simple reason that we think that this way of releasing the shipowner's fee is not something we should do for the simple reason that we should do it, then those bakers who bake bread on the oil should then all those who use it in any form of oil, and they're not driving on the roads to get rid of the fee because it reminds me of that story when the highway was made from Zagreb to Split and there's been a big deal about it, about the price per mile of the highway from Zagreb to Split, and suddenly it was too much of it, that I don't know what it is. However, we Slavons have been paying such a fee all along the former highway of brotherhood and unity. It turns out that the largest part of our country needs to be paid by Slavons and should be kept silent by the fact that blue oil is called blue oil, and it's not called green oil, and we don't think that this kind of approach is even good, and this is another reason where we should free someone who doesn't drive on the highways because he's driving on the sea, and only for comparison in Slavonia, we've listed ourselves chickens, sheep, cows, and I'm not saying what we don't do, and in Dalmatia we can't list a holiday home, and in any case, I think that all citizens of this country should contribute equally to the development of this country, means building a highway.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71672	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. It's time for my dear colleague, Perushko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71673	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues! Since I am one of the signatories of this initiative, this bill, and what I personally did with my colleague Tadic was involved with numerous talks with shipowners' representatives, shipowners' associations, regional shipowners' associations and that I come from this maritime dam, that Croatia is an unequivocal maritime country and if we want to develop Croatian shipbuilding and if we want Croatian shipowners to operate in at least equal if not more favourable conditions than their environment, I find it entirely justified to find a way to bring ships into an equal position. One of these models was also the one that proposed by the HSP Club, and I am pleased that the government's representative on the parent board this morning pointed out that the government is aware that it must find a model in which exactly what the HSP Club has proposed through this proposal to amend the Roads Act would be achieved. True, the government did not accept this model, however, made a promise that it would find a way to achieve this same goal and that it considered this request by Croatian shipowners justified, and in that sense I would now say that until this happens, I support this proposal which the HSP referred to in the procedure and that I would vote for it but I am pleased to say that in this way the government was provoked to react in an adequate way that the model should then be assessed and evaluated by the Government and referred it to the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71674	The replica of a respected colleague of the Chichin-Shain basket.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71675	Thank you very much. I'd like to replicate a colleague in the section where he explained the government's position. In fact, probably if this proposal had come from the government he would have passed, that's the only reason he didn't. In fact, it's true that boaters must have some privileges. It may not be necessary to remove the part relating to the construction of the highway but VAT on that part should definitely be removed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71676	Thank you very much. Does he want the closing word of his colleague Tadic? Yeah. Here you go, colleague Tadic!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71677	Very short for the end. This law didn't come from our whim. We have been discussing this law for months with the Co-ordination of Shipowners' Associations, a whole series of their protests were held where they tried to point to the government's imbalances in business conditions. To talk about how everyone has to pay compensation for the construction of highways as one of the top natural reasons why we shouldn't go to such exceptions actually leads to a debate on schools of opinion on individual taxes. Let's remember that up until a year ago, the 22% VAT was a "holy cow." No one under any circumstances thought of touching the VAT, and despite our years of efforts to introduce an inter-step for tourism, thank God we introduced it. One day we'll believe we'll bring this in. It won't take long. In contrast to those driving the roads, boaters face competition that has cheaper fuel and we can only say we want our boaters on our Adriatic to operate in the same conditions or we don't want to. If we don't want to, then thank you, then we can immediately glean all the strategies related to Croatia's maritime orientation and everything about shipping so far forget. All we want is equal operating conditions. Of course, I don't plead that this is the most ideal form of law, nor do I plead that everyone in the House will understand me, I never expected it. But talking about these guys having to pay the price of fuel because they're getting on the highway is really unusual. So, it's similar to the argument of a resorient minister who claimed that the shipowners must pay because HZ pays the price of fuel as well. So, if someone walks barefoot, then we all have to walk around barefoot instead of thinking about how HH would release this kind of effort to develop competition to HH. Look, we, from the price of fuel paid by HH, are developing competition to HH, which is very unusual to me. So the construction of highways in this country is marked as a top-of-the-line goal. I think there are other goals besides it, which is the development of Croatian shipping. If we destroy it then we haven't actually done anything. And in the end, I didn't mention the number. So it's all 150 million kunas a year plus 30 million kuna VAT on that. Don't forget that one part of it is already hiding in the subsidies that are granted for shipping and fast shipping lines where we are actually spilling from hollow to empty, we are subsidizing VAT and excise duty which then returns to the budget. You'll forgive me, no one ever does it that way. So again, I'm not saying this is the most ideal model, but I'm glad the government noticed the problem and I'm glad it's going to start solving it. In a few months or a few years, this will come alive, you'll see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71678	Thank you very much, dear colleague Tadic. Correction of the incorrect quote by counterpart Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71679	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to correct an incorrect quote saying everything we want is equal terms of business. If so, I ask Mr Tadic why they didn't propose to say the peasants who don't even go out on the highway, who do this to their tractors in the fields, in the woods, and I don't know why, why they can't also be free of these things.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71680	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this agenda tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71681	Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Public Roads, the Proposer of the Law is the Club of Representatives of the HSP. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I draw the conclusion: The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Roads proposed by the Club of Representatives of the HSP for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies is not accepted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 69 votes for, 4 abstentions, 29 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71682	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, first reading of P.Z. No. 463 Proposer of the Law is the Club of HNS Representatives. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction. You received their reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered its opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. On behalf of the HNS Club, dear colleague Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71683	In order not to explain the bill we gave, the more we made sure that the working bodies in time discussed the proposals of the law and the Government in time to give their opinion. The topic is actually related to this point two, three of which we had on the report on the Law, the implementation of the consumer protection programme, with these proposed interventions very short but not provocative. They are neither political nor party character and have no intention of provoking anyone but are the result of what people have turned our attention to us. I would like to assure you that indeed two provisions of the existing Consumer Rights Act are not well defined when we have brought it to life and practice later. Namely, distributors of advertising propaganda materials in Croatia can deliver and leave them in every mailbox, on every staircase, on every door, on every private property facility, on every car parked in the parking lot. So wherever they want, they can terrorize you with advertising material. ... 23rd point, right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The amount of this material per week if they weigh or count per page shall be up to 10 kg per month. What can consumers do with that? If they throw it in the trash can, they're making garbage. It's not waste. It's garbage that ends up in dumps and we pile things up. If they live in a city or county where waste collection is organized, like in Međimurje, you have to buy a paper bag and put it there if you don't want to pollute the environment. So taking care of that garbage, and I call it garbage is a burden on consumers. They put it in my mailbox, stuck it on my door, threw it in my yard. I'm personally trying to check the functioning of the Consumer Protection Act on my mailbox writing a label that's forbidden to postpone advertising material. After two days in the mailbox I found a bunch of advertising material two big sales chains. One of them is our homemade singer, and the other is the Austrian Baumax. After that, by e-mail, I addressed responsible people, pointed to legal provisions, and asked them to stop terrorizing me with their garbage. They make garbage. These are terrorists who terrorise the citizens of this country with garbage that, along the way, when they print it and distribute it, don't pay a dime. Even when printing, they're tax-free. The distribution is tax-free. And environmental services in Croatia have no compensation. You remember we introduced taxes and supplements to the disposal of plastic packaging. And fantasticly, after all the noises of Minister Dropulic, where the entire lobby was financed by foreign capital at the headquarters of a world-class company in Zagreb, he campaigned against Minister Dropulic, an international company, financed a campaign against her to give up the pressure that plastic packaging must be taken care of, they remained spared everything. They don't have to take care of their junk. They don't pay any tax to the state or the cost of taking care of it to consumers. After that sticker and my protest, a company promised me they would never do it again, and I never found any advertising material in my Austrian mailbox again. But from our home... Bastards, terrorists... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71684	My colleague, colleague, colleague Lesar, I ask you to make sure that you are a public person. That the Croatian Parliament is the most representative body and that such exposures cannot be used from this pay phone and I give you a warning for insulting legal and physical persons in the Republic of Croatia Please proceed, please. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71685	Thank you very much. They kept putting away their advertising material not in the mailbox but next to it. 20 centimeters next to him. And by law, everything's fine. So they're legally allowed 20 centimeters past my mailbox, on my private property, their advertising material. And they don't answer to anyone. All members of the European Union have a system to allow the consumer to leave something to it by advertising agencies, traders and companies. That's the first proposal. And the second proposal is e-mail messages. Mass messages where most often senders are covered with false hints especially when you open links that lead you to remote addresses where tariffs are 5 times more expensive than domestic or 10 times more expensive. Which you can't protect yourself from if you don't have protection from... Or don't you know what they are? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the national operator in Croatia who has a monopoly at the moment is using it extremely well. If, in our Consumer Protection Act, we have issued a ban on advertising by telephone, a fax device, and we do not consider it necessary by e-mail and to introduce that ban by this Act. The government has answered in its opinion that it is aware of these problems but that with its proposal, I do not know when to resolve it. The implementation of this Law does not cost a single kuna of the State Budget, nor does it cost one lip of those who respect the laws. It is true that the adoption of this bill would come under attack by those who deal with this kind of propaganda and advertising that is not allowed in countries where they come from. According to the chairman's assessment, I insulted them. I've accepted a warning. But what are they doing? Do they insult consumers in Croatia? Do they also insult this Assembly by breaking the existing law? Making moves 15 centimeters from a mailbox leaving its advertising material without having to take care of it at the same time. Whether I have offended them more and suffered damage here because of my insult or consumers in Croatia suffer more damage than their behavior. I want to believe that you understand that this law has no connotation of political competition, no party competition, but an attempt to follow the consumer protection system on the European Union, not with major revolutions, but small steps to make up protection mechanisms, aware that the supervisory inspections in Croatia do not have enough good developments, that we do not have judicial practices in this area. There are very few disputes in this area. But wanting to modernise the legal provisions of help and clarity of the provisions that inspectors, and especially those dealing with national telephone operators, undertake to protect consumers from mass electronic messages that are commercially natural, covered sender, which, among other things, can bring you a virus. How much damage do the information systems suffer in Parliament and the government after the virus? Mowgli... 6 months ago, when the entire system fell here in both the Parliament and the Government just as a result of such mass messages to a hidden sender of unknown content. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I want to believe that you agree with me that this is a small shift in consumer protection and that despite the government's opinion, you will support, or release this bill into a second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71686	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is on behalf of the HNS club, a respected colleague, Vuljanic. Here's my colleague Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71687	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. This bill is a small attempt for Croatian citizens, consumers to protect themselves from the terrorism of garbage, from littering, various kinds of garbage, three types of garbage are mentioned here, which are being launched by those with whom we normally had some problems in this assembly, such as large trade chains, when we talked about various forms of abuse of workers, the abolition of labour rights, the work of unpaid Sundays. They're the same. They're the same ones who bulldoze us with tons of paper that a man doesn't know what to do afterwards. People living in the city tried to protect themselves from it with the inscriptions "No Disposal of Advertising Material in Mailboxes". Then it happens to delay on the mailboxes, because the law says it can't be deposited in a mailbox that the owner wrote that it can't be deposited in. They leave it on the mailboxes. You don't have any help. These materials from companies such as Kaufland whose one of the directors personally told me that they own them, and they have one week's report for customers what cost this week, that this is the most generous newspaper in Croatia, that this newspaper comes to every third Croatian, so a million copies they print it. Now count the number of million copies times three, four pages as many as there are and what amount of garbage is there put on the back of those who didn't want it at all, who tomorrow have to make sure that it ends up in a suitable place, and number two through tax pay and taking care of it. So, they're harassing us, they're taking our time off, and we're paying it one more time. All to protect the interest of someone who came to Croatia to act quite differently than he behaves in his country. The other kind of garbage that's involved are so-called spam, text messages, e-mails that come from all over the world, most often sender, and doesn't know if it's a domestic operator or if it's really coming from outside, dear God will know where you can buy it, from a degree in American colleges, bachelaur, master, doctor, anything can be bought to a variety of drugs for potency, to shares on the New York Stock Exchange. All of this is offered to you. You never asked for it, you never wanted to communicate with those companies. But it's coming to you. In countries where we want to look forward to, in which we look at this kind of advertising is absolutely forbidden and you can’t speak to someone who doesn’t want your advertisement electronically in such a way. The third kind of garbage is an auditory message and messages that come through the phone network, text messages, faxes. What also causes damage to the user or the consumer, on the one hand. On the other hand, it is also an attack on common sense that a person cannot actually use his fax machine and his phone when he wants someone to send you a message. There's nothing political about this bill. This is really a modest attempt to do something about that "More Flowers Less Trash" password and not to be harassed by those who don't deserve to have the right to harass us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71688	Thank you very much. There's a respected colleague of Chichin-Shain's. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71689	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's just a quick update. I know it's a little hard for everyone to sit down. But really, this debate was a little bit, and the bill offered me to say a few words about encouraging consummating borrowing. In fact, Croatian citizens are very in charge of both their consumer cards and their bank accounts. A very large number of them are down, and it's slowly starting to be a big problem for our country. One of the aspects of this borrowing is just to encourage the fact that the strong marketing propaganda, i.e. the marketing pressure on citizens daily, is that in their mailboxes they receive printed materials from large chains and large houses, and as much as we seem to be flooded with all these chains every day we witness the construction of new and new squares of these trade chains. Of course, a Croatian citizen who is still 15 years ago has traveled out for all these things, who is still subject to all these challenges that are materially good around him, which seem and represent, only practically runs from one post to another, and I think that there is a certain responsibility for us as parliamentary representatives to begin to gradually appeal to the citizens of Croatia to move away, i.e. to think about their consumption and to put themselves within the limits of our opportunities. In this way, I will say to some extent naively, people enter terrible responsibilities, and often these duties end up with the most tragic situations in the family, from divorces to suicides when those duties cross the limits that a man can endure. So I think it's up to us to develop a gradual awareness that we don't need to go into loans, that when we go credit we should just use it for those situations when we're improving really some of our existential things, not that we're constantly running around like a hamster in our tick from one consumer loan to another consumer credit. I think it's all very expensive, very elaborate tactics, we're an ideal market, an unfavourable market on which they found fertile soil all those big chains that have come out here and actually draws up the standard of our citizens. The special topic is e-mail, e-mail, that is, what comes and commercials that come by e-mail that often simply capture our pages and our PCs and I think it's very difficult to defend without saying that the messages from various trips to the island to I don't know the various candidates for some winnings, lotteryes etc. various and different equally false challenges offered through these e-mails. I mean, at the very least, it's our obligation to start protecting our citizens from that commercialization. It's not such a naive subject and I think it should be discussed in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71690	Thank you, dear colleague. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the final word? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. You're not going to take a word for it. You're going to get a warning because of what you might say. I'm closing the debate on this wheel. We'll vote tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71691	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act. Proposer of the Law is the Club of Representatives of the HNS. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act proposed by the Croatian Representatives' Club for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies is not adopted. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 66 votes for, 3 abstentions and 31 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71692	We move to the next point - Proposal for a Law on the Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia – Proposer of the SDP Representatives Club, first reading of P.Z. No. 470 You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. You received their reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered its opinion. Does the proposaler's representative want to explain the law? Yeah. The word has a colleague, Anton Perusko, on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71693	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues,...... Vice President, good. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I've made some progress. Government officials can't say hello because they're not here. Since this is after a little more than a year, the second time we have discussed this SDP proposal on the Coast Guard Act of the Republic of Croatia, just a few short introductory notes. I do not think it is necessary to remind that the Adriatic, and mainly its part under the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia with an area of nearly 60 thousand square kilometers, is of course the most valuable resource of this country, but the resource that is increasingly vulnerable to security, environmental and any other species on a daily basis and we in the SDP club believe that this national wealth can be effectively protected through the Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia, and it seems to me that every day we are all in agreement with this because this has resulted in this agreement and in the debate that was led a little more than a year ago in this assembly. So we verbally agree, but there is no realisation and there is no way that the Republic of Croatia's Coast Guard will happen. In this proposal, I would like to repeat this briefly, we, a coastal of two models that the world knows, co-ordinated and unique and in two components of civil and military, propose this bill to form the Coast Guard in the Republic of Croatia according to the unique model, and not to be a civilian, not a military institution, and of course to develop part of the Croatian Armed Forces on the development of the Croatian Navy and on the means needed for them, but we believe that for a tourist country for the Adriatic as a prestigious nautical destination, it is appropriate that the Coast Guard in peace and out of some extraordinary situations be a civil institution, and in the event of a god of war, I hope that there will never be more and in the event of major accidents that we will not be hit again, certainly in such extraordinary cases, it would be subject to a warship such as this example in the neighbouring country of Greece. In the last debate that I say took place here in May 2005, if nothing else was unique, we were and accepted the conclusion of the Committee, the parent committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Relationships, which read: The Government of the Republic of Croatia is bound to rush the Croatian Parliament into the procedure of the Proposal for a Law on the Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia to take effect by June 2006 at the latest. This was the proposal of the parent board and the same conclusion was unanimously adopted by this Assembly, and as seen by June, we are already in July and there is no law, let alone that the Coast Guard has functioned as it was due to the foundation of the Croatian Parliament's conclusion. The truth is there is a co-ordination that the government established in 2004, but this conclusion by the Parliament was clear and obliged the government to refer to the procedure of its draft law and that more than that, the Coast Guard and the start of June this year, and that certainly did not happen. When this did not happen, the SDP Club felt that it was in some way necessary to potentiate the coast guard structure and the adoption of the law, it decided to refer once again to the procedure of this bill. And just a few more words about the government's obvious. They do not stand, according to us at the club, states the Governments that the proposed model is not effectively applicable to specific conditions in the Republic of Croatia, and we believe that it is precisely suitable for specific conditions in the Republic of Croatia, in a country of prestigious nautical destinations and we claim the opposite of what the Government claims in its obvious. She, truth states, has established co-ordination since 24 August 2004 but this is not the case. The second allegation of the Government, in the light of our proposal, says that there are no significant links between the Coast Guard and the activities of the State Protection and Rescue Authority which are governed by the Protection and Rescue Act, which cannot stand. Because the search and rescue at sea are the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia, which have been taken over by the signing of the International Convention on the Search and Rescue at Sea. And the coordination between these services is the internal matter of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, the government says that the proposed Coast Guard model is inevitable to require additional burdens which I also want to refute because the unique Coast Guard structure is uniting, no new investments are required at this time. It is already required to pool existing human and material resources, technical resources, means of connections and all of those assets that are now divided both workers and material and technical resources into 5.6 ministries and in 2 state administrations. Therefore, unification is required, a unique system of personnel education, a unique type of vessel, engine types and all that, and we argue that such a proposal does not burden the additional state budget but is achieved and saved in the state budget. And finally, the Government of the Republic of Croatia prepares, says, a proposal for a Coast Guard Act in which it will build in a quality way the experience gained through the work of coordination. I don't think it's appropriate for the government to make such an indication because it should not have prepared a high-quality draft of the law, but it should have been referred by the Parliament and should have been brought by the Coast Guard on June this year. Some of the remarks that the Government has in principle pointed out that this Law has certain shortcomings, we are aware of that. The Labour of the Coast Guard was presented for the first time during the coalition government in May 2003 and on the basis of this elaborate, we have drawn up this bill which we have referred to in the procedure and can in any way be completed, processed, corrected by some of the shortcomings that it clearly has. However, instead, you persistently reject the failure of this Law into second reading, and I expect you, colleagues and colleagues, to give the green light to this Law for a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71694	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. A colleague of Alenka Kosisa Chicin-Shain on behalf of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71695	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament at the 50th session held on 12 July 2006 discussed the proposal for a Law on the Coast Guard, first reading, P.Z. 470. The Committee discussed the proposal for a Coast Guard Law as a parent body. In the debate, the Committee held a written opinion by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The opening statement was given by a representative of the promoters who stressed that this Bill proposed that the Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia should be tasked with organising all the tasks carried out in different ministries and the State Inspectorate in one place, under the command of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and that the aim of accepting a single service for the performance of all maritime and maritime affairs. Or that the Coast Guard institution under this Bill proposal is designed as a place where it would be a section of the profession, technology and information with a view to making the Adriatic as efficient and quality control as possible. The promoter particularly stressed that the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not act upon the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament from the 14th session, which required the Croatian Parliament to be quick to refer to the procedure of the proposal for a Coast Guard Act in order to bring it into effect by June 2006 at the latest. The Government's view is that this proposal for a future model should not be accepted is not effectively applicable to specific conditions in the Republic of Croatia, and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has established, by decision of 24 August 2004, the coordination of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the implementation of operations, supervision and protection of internal sea waters, territorial seas and protected ecological and fisheries belts of the Republic of Croatia. He also stressed that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is preparing a proposal for a Law on the Coast Guard to build on the experience gained by the work of the Croatian Government's coordination of operations, supervision and protection of internal sea waters, territorial seas and protected ecological and fishing belts of the Republic of Croatia and the existing resources of the Croatian Navy. The debate stressed that this proposal provides the cheapest and most rational solution to the control and protection of the Adriatic as well as that the Adriatic, which is important not only for the coast, but for the whole of Croatia, needs maximum protection. It was also pointed out that the proposed Coast Guard model addresses the problem between the police and the Port Captain in the matter of the jurisdiction of the affairs, supervision and protection carried out. The opinion is also expressed that, given that the Government is preparing the proposal for a Coast Guard Act, this proposal should not be adopted. After the debate was held, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament, with the majority of votes 6 for and 4 against, decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to reach the next conclusion. The proposal for a Law on the Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia is not accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71696	Thank you very much, dear colleague. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HSP club, dear colleague Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71697	Honored Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The club of HSP representatives will support this proposal for a Law on the Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia in its first reading with the desire to encourage the Croatian government to finally draft a Coast Guard Act. I, like us at the club, am appalled by the fact that a year after the SDP's club in the Assembly held its debate on the proposal for a Coast Guard Act, the Croatian Government did nothing to draft a law that would regulate the area. I understand that the Croatian government is trying to resolve this through co-ordination, believing that, for some time, it will bypass the recommendations that are present in both the Croatian public and the professional circles on what is actually the role of the Croatian Navy, or what is the role of the Croatian Coast Guard. More specifically, which is an interrelationship between the Croatian Navy and the Croatian Coast Guard. The problem, however, is that it passes from year to year in waiting for the solution. The sea has what it looks like. the coordination of the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Sea, or the port captains, which is far from the centralized system as it should be. To be precise, the current safety system of Croatia at sea is inadequate. It's characterized by irrationality and operational trombones and these are facts. So, first of all, it would be necessary to clearly define the concept of what a coast guard is, whether it is the entire safety system of Croatia at sea or part of that system, by keeping in mind that there is no unique definition of coast guard in the world. It is about state organisations which are designed to protect and defend certain natural and social values or national interests, but the content of protection and models is very different. Each country organizes them according to its specificities. So, we don't have to blindly follow some model but whatever coast guard model you choose so be it and this model that's proposed here it actually brings us to another question and that's actually the role and future of the Croatian Navy. Namely, it's hard to talk about the future of the Coast Guard, its role, its structure and ignoring the role of the Navy. We are unfortunately witnessing the fact that we are discussing the Coast Guard by neglecting the development of the Navy, or we can be brought into an even worse situation, which is that we finance exclusively the Coast Guards by neglecting the needs of the Navy's development and that tomorrow, in real danger, the Navy is very much needed and we do not have developed its fleet. Such indications exist in the report, or in the plans for the development of the armed forces, and we simply cannot be satisfied. So, the world's models are different. We believe that this proposal made by the SDP Club is a good basis for discussing it and that is precisely why and in order to finally pass a single and complete law with a single and complete system of protection of Croatian interests at sea we support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71698	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this bill tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71699	Proposal for a Law on the Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia. The Proposer of the Law is the Club of Representatives of the SDP. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a Law on the Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia, proposed by the SDP Representatives Club, is not adopted for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 65 votes for, 4 abstentions, 34 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71700	We're going right to the next point. - Proposal for a law amending the Law on the control of drug abuse – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the HSP, first reading of P.Z. No. 471 The bill was submitted by the HSP Representatives' Club. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. You received their reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered its opinion. Does the proposaler's representative want to explain the law briefly? Yeah. The word is from a respected colleague, Tonci Tadic. Here you go, colleague Tadic!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71701	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives! This short Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the control of drug abuse concerns the issue of the destruction of drug confiscation. We are witnesses that large quantities of drugs are seized thanks to the successful actions of the Croatian Ministry of Interior. For formal and legal reasons, however, drugs are not being destroyed. Long-term protection of intoxicating drugs is a major security problem and arises with this unnecessaryly high cost, that we do not say that there is a latent danger that some corrupt individuals from the drug fight system part of the stolen drug end up back on the black market. I also remind on behalf of our club as a proposing that the UN Committee on Narcotic Drugs, which held its session in Vienna in March last year, adopted a resolution that stipulates that seized quantities of drugs are being destroyed. In this respect, we believe that the existing bill should be amended in Article 51 so that the drugs taken away or parts of the plant or substances from which drugs can be produced are destroyed by the power of judgment or a solution so that intoxicating drugs can also be destroyed by the expiry of a period of three years from the date of the criminal application to the State's attorney. It takes some time for that drug to remain in the warehouse for the purpose of a court case, but after that, it definitely needs to be destroyed in order not to be unnecessarily guarded, so that we don't spend money on it or to find ourselves back on the black market. The Government of the Republic of Croatia gave its positive opinion on this, noting that the assessment of the funds that our club of representatives is unrealistic and that it would be better if we had predicted exactly how much a cut is needed in the state budget. We can answer only one thing, and that is that in a situation where the black market in Croatia turns annually towards the most modest estimates of about 100 million euros, the government is at the same time steaming the fight against drugs with a ten times smaller amount, and we simply cannot be satisfied. Therefore, if we want an effective fight against drugs, then the existing amount is, of course, inadequate, and we believe that the Government of the Budgetary Reserve can ensure that the law as such survives already in this second half of the year, i.e. that, in the next budget cut, it is not a great means for this purpose in our court. So we thank the government for a positive opinion and we invite all clubs to support our bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71702	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, dear colleague of the Kosha Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71703	I would like to thank my colleague Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I would certainly support this HSP proposal on the Law amending the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse because we really think that this is not resolved by the existing law and by supporting this, we think that we are going to get rid of a part that is a big problem for our country because the Ministry of Interior is really doing a very good job, and then it's not really known how and what the paths of ending with the drug seized are whether it's grass or whether it's pills or something like that. It is certainly good to do so immediately after the end and after the end of the trial and a good proposal from HSP colleagues if it is not within that time period to do so within 3 years, because indeed very often the question is raised in the public where it ends, often not known, often the public is not informed about it and, of course, it also causes additional doubts in ordinary citizens about where this seized drug ends in the end. It is simply that we are eager for our citizens to be protected and we do not want any abuse to happen after the police have already made great efforts to confiscate it whether it is a confiscation at sea, that it is a confiscation at the border, in any case the drug issue in our society is still far from being satisfied with their complete solution. This is one drop in the sea of those problems that we will still face about this management and control of drug abuse and surely our club will also give an additional proposal in an additional period regarding not only the repression, not only the destruction, but also, in general, the prevention of drug use. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71704	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Does the proposaler's representative want a final word? No, I don't. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. We'll vote tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71705	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the control of drug abuse. The Proposer of the Law is the Club of Representatives of the HSP. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the control of the abuse of intoxicating drugs proposed by the HSP Representatives' Club is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final proposal for the Law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 102 votes for, 2 abstentions and 1 against the accepted proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71706	We move to the next item of the agenda – - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Family Law Supplements – Proposer of the Club of Representatives HNS, first reading of P.Z. No. 479 You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. You received their reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered its opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. The word is given to a respected colleague, Dragutin Lesar, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HNS. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71707	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary of State. And this proposal is short on content, but by the meaning of me very large. Namely, the problem of adoption of children, as well as fostering children in Croatia, must not suffer party and political competition, but we are obliged as responsible people to be sensitive and hear people who point to the problems that exist in this area. And to be clear at first, I'm not saying we've offered the best solutions, but we've tried to honestly help the government do something about the law interventions. According to data I received in June last year, my representative question in Croatia is located in homes and families about 3 and a half thousand children. Thus, there are few children who are deprived of parental care for various reasons in homes or families. These children are of different ages, age structures, and according to the data really quality that I received from the counties, looking at the total population and children very much. Those who have tried to adopt children so far, and according to the records of the Croatian social care centres, there were about 920 most often married couples who met all the legal conditions prescribed to be potential adopters. The annual adoption level is about 120, 130 in Croatia, but if you look at the data of individual centres for social care then let's say we have cases that some centers have one adoption during the year, some 15. By talking to those who were able to adopt children, those who had or had children in foster care, not five, six, but one child, those who tried, who failed to adopt children, but those in the welfare centers that they were dealing with, pointed to three possible problems. First of all, that the good limit that the Croatian law has given is narrowed down because today it is quite common and rare for women to give birth at the age of 40, and according to our laws, the age limit in which parents can be adopted by the couple according to the interpretation of the Government or the representatives of the labour ministry is already above European standards. It may be true, but it is also true that European practice is not giving children up for adoption and that these European countries record relatively little adoption of children from their countries, but that is why they have large adoptions of children from other countries. You probably know what I'm talking about, you probably know and testify with me that the question of adopting children in Western Europe has become business in some countries. I'm not going to talk about America. I'm going to stay in Europe. Another problem is that every couple who has passed all the procedures and acquired and has met all the conditions for being a potential adoptor at this point must address themselves if I am not cheating on 84 centres for social care because although the law provides for two and a half years ago in "The People's Newspaper" the Regulation has not been published and no central records on one side of the adoptors of potential and on the other side of children who have met the conditions to be adopted. And parents wander from city to city, from center to center to find children from home to home from family to family who could adopt. I am now in danger of getting a warning again, but it is a question of adopting children and trading and paying for these services in Croatia is not foreign either. And there is, there is, there is, obviously it will be. That those in the decision-making chain wherever they are are are able to choose those who will adopt it and choose those children who are adopted. Because in Croatia there are still a number of children who, according to this data of the Ministry or Government and the answer I received is Mr Ivo Sanader is greater than what he has during the year to adopt. We accept and it is very good that Croatia is going towards not putting children in institutions because it is a European trend and it is good rather than trying to solve the problem with the adoption and fostering of the family. That in this family environment children are growing up, being raised, and I agree with the government's opinion that in this process we must create a child-parent relationship, not a child-grandmother and grandfather, as the government has written. But the government is in its view and opinion, and this answers two problems as to why there are no more adopted children. The first problem is what the biggest number of adoptors want for younger children. Yes, for children of older age, there is a lack of interest. Well, a kid who's six months old today and hasn't been adopted in five years is going to be five years and six months old and then we're going to say no one wants him anymore because everyone wants a 6-month-old baby. And secondly, he's very little interested in adopting children who have developmental disorders, the special needs of either physical or mental retardation. That's right. But it is the older couples who often choose to adopt such children. And exactly the age limit that we now have in law prevents them from being adopted. The introduction of central records, the placing of data on those who have met the criteria to adopt children and data on children who are ready for adoption, where all is legally clear would allow potential adoptors to reach these data and speed up the decision-making process within 5 minutes. This proposal does not interfere with part of the judiciary and the court’s decision to deprive one of the parents of parental care and declare the child ready for adoption. It is an extremely delicate decision, and I know that every judge must think extremely carefully before the decision and judgment of a father or mother deprives him of the right to parental care. But according to current regulations, which is most often the case, and I know that it's not true that a phone call in three months at home by a father or mother is most often treated as a fact that they care about their child. "Hello, hello! How's my baby? Okay, thank you. I also know because I come from the county where there is such a large number that in the Roma community there are a large number of cases where children are given into foster care and homes because of no parental care, and I personally had to intervene in several cases where such neglect of the child's rights occurred that children had to be hospitalized urgently because of tuberculosis, severe child diseases deprived of any care and health care and protection. From the newspaper's article, we testify about the terrible cases when children in the family are abused, neglected, forced to beg, and here in Zagreb come children from Međimurje who are forced into this shameful act and the community is helpless. I know that there are different regulations and conditions for someone to gain foster or adoptive status, but I testified, and I witnessed the case when the family adopted the baby two days after birth because the mother gave up before birth. And at the call of the Social Services Center, the family went to the hospital, took over the baby, and ran for adoption at the same time. When the baby spoke the first words, Dad and Mom came from the Social Services Center and informed the foster parents that they had found the adoptive parents. And that child was given up for adoption to another family. Because the foster parent who has had that baby since the second day of birth in his apartment, home, and home under current legislation has no priority, has no privilege of being adopted. Maybe according to some rules that I don't know, directions and directions, they do. I've read the law and I know the practice. This bill does not require any state money from the State budget. This Law does not affect the jurisdiction of the judiciary that courts and judges decide to deny parental care. This proposal of the law does not impose new obligations on the overcrowded officials and experts of the social care centre which is too little, which are already overloaded by bureaucratic jobs, which cannot be sufficiently devoted to these children, but I am sure that our proposal allows one side to increase the number of potential adoptors, the other speeding up the procedure which is imposing, cutting deadlines, and by introducing a central record we speed up the possibility of... data and what our special goal is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To the greatest extent, we prevent the possibility that a child's decision to adopt will be arbitration by one individual, preventing us from having a question in this area as well as bribery and corruption and all that unfortunately we have at this point. I want to believe that after all the arguments both on the working bodies and here, and especially because of the data that are not ours, we received them from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, because it will make it easier for social care centres, not to make it difficult but to make it easier, and especially because the ministry has made it clear that it is ready for the central eyewitness, so they are ready to introduce that record, that you will support that until the second reading together with the representatives of the Government and improve that part of the law that is now nomothically not good enough. I want to believe that Madam Secretary of State will understand these arguments and accept that until the second reading and in the second reading together we can prepare perhaps some more necessary changes in this law and thus make this step and effort to improve this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71708	Thank you, colleague Lesar. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Do the government's representatives want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS club, dear colleague Vuljanic. Here's my colleague Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71709	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague and a colleague each child has the right to a family. That's the truth I don't suppose we should prove anywhere, least of all in this House. Three and a half thousand children in Croatia do not do so. I don't know if you've ever seen those kids. We have a home in Karlovac for such children. I used to come to that house a lot. Have you ever seen how much these kids feel about the need for a grown-up to accept them, to take their hand, to iron them out, to talk to them? This right to any administrative qualms, no obstacles of an artificial nature should be denied, disabled, challenged, so this bill is one of the attempts to implement this right of children as much as we can in Croatia, as we are prepared to do at this time. One of the elements that prevents adoption is the very low age limit prescribed by our law, 35 years. The adoptor can't be more than 35 years old under our legal regulations. We are witnessing that the situation in procreation is changing. Today women are born at 40 and a few years old and the first child and it is no longer an attraction. There is no reason why such a wife and her husband would not be able to adopt a child who was born by another mother, who would not, can or cannot care. For those 10 years, differences in child development will certainly not present any difficulty in raising a child. The second element that this law, the element of change proposed by this law, is to cut deadlines for deciding who might be the adoptor. Again, there's no reason for anyone to show good faith and have predisposition, to meet the conditions for it to be extended on a date that I don't know what kind of deadline. A 30 - day period in our opinion is quite appropriate and sufficient for the relevant authorities to decide and determine whether this family is similar for adoption or not. The last amendment proposed by this bill is the introduction of a database in which all persons who are or families who are willing to take up and all children who meet the conditions for adoption would be registered. Today's situation is such that a parent who, a potential parent who wants to adopt a child, has no other situation than to ask all over Croatia about welfare centres and establishs where there are children who could adopt and how he can meet the conditions, criteria, address and find answers for what he wants to do at a social care centre in this or that county. By introducing one of the central registers and databases, and the government said it was ready to do it, if it could be done, we'd make it easier for business, but that's the least important. We would speed up adoption procedures and allow at least half of these three and a half thousand children to be found in a home this year and next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71710	Thank you, dear colleague. In the name of. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear colleague of Chichin-Shain's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71711	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Dominique. So 3 and a half thousand foster families and procedures that are still very complex in Croatia for now. I must say, it's not easy to adopt a child today, let alone be a foster parent. As far as adoption is concerned, I really think that they have brought limits far too low and that these age limits, given some and natural things that happen in the natural course and women and men, would decide both later on marriages and on their own children. I think the age limit for adoption should also change significantly. I also think that we should consider, that adoptors should not be just marriage mates. Because very often, they don't have to be, I agree, but it's still an exception with us, and it's not a rule. Very often if there are two candidates of which a single mother will be given to the benefit represented by the family of husbands and wives, the advantage will be given to those who are single. We need to be honest and say that today more and more families are separated families and that there are more and more single mothers and single fathers, and in this context I think that we should think about this, too, that we are treating ourselves equally in such cases. Certainly, the extension of the age limit is also related to that biological cycle. Today, women have children of their own, and it is perfectly normal, and it would be perfectly normal for me to extend that deadline to 45 years of age that we have given in this bill. What you would also like to point out is that the procedure needs to be relieved. Facilitation procedures are currently in central records. So the central record would get that this whole adoption procedure should be simpler and easier and the goal is for our children not to grow up in institutions but to grow within families and in the extreme line and within foster families or foster families. In particular, it would highlight the problem when families take their children for foster care and adopt later. In fact, it is very often that more children are taken from one institution, because foster parents and can take more children and take brothers and sisters, say, and that these brothers and sisters live in a family, in a foster family from their least age, so basically from the age of zero to the age of six, the seventh, and simply in that sixth, the seventh year, someone who is a foster parent appears. At that point, it is known that the situation is that brothers and sisters are separated and adopted in different families, so foster parents and what is also quite a tragedy that the foster parent has virtually no more information where these children are still present. I think it's a double mistake, I'm telling you from what I know, because the foster parents told me. That it was a double mistake, because at the first moment these children had already been denied the fact that they had been found in the institution and had become the subject of foster care and then once again, after six or seven years from that foster family, they are now placed into a new foster family, as much as possible if it were brothers and sisters, so there is also a separation of biological ties within what makes them their family. I'm speaking from a very specific case, so I'm not speaking in my mind. And she'd still like to point something out. I think this bill of law is that we will also help our centres for social work and social care, that we will help those fosterings and that these adoptions are a little more transparent. There really are situations, and often people come to us, that there are certain because of these non-transparentities and let's say, I won't say corruption but suspicious situations in which someone comes into a position to become a foster parent and someone doesn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71712	Thank you, dear colleague. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the final word? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this wheel tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71713	Proposal for a law on changes and additions to family law. Proposer of the Law is the Club of Representatives of the HNS. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Family Law proposed by the HNS Representatives' Club is not adopted for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and in the reports of the working bodies. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 65 votes in favour, 21 abstentions and 9 against the accepted proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71714	We move to the next point - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Defence Act – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the HNS, first reading of P.Z. No. 479 You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received their reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered its opinion. Does the proposaler's representative want to explain the law briefly?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71715	Mr. Vice President, this bill of law is so good, so high-quality and clear that it really doesn't need to be further explained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71716	Thank you, Comrade Lesar. Do the reports of the rainfall want to take the floor? Does a government official want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We don't have any reports to argue with. Is anyone picking up? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll also vote on this agenda point tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71717	Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act. Proposer of the Law is the Club of Representatives of the HNS. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Defence Act proposed by the Croatian Representatives' Club for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies shall not be adopted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 70 votes for, 3 abstentions, 29 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71718	We move to the next item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Service Act in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the HNS, first reading of P.Z. No. 480 Proposer of the Law is the Club of HNS Representatives. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received their reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered its opinion. Does the proposaler's representative want to explain the law because he's connected to the previous one?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71719	Mr. Vice President, at the request of my colleague Zdenka Petricevic, I will not give an introductory explanation of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71720	Thank you very much, dear fellow Lesar. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Does a government official want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We don't have anyone that's interested in the hearing. I'm closing the debate. And we'll vote on this bill tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71721	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Service Act in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Proposer of the Law is the Club of Representatives of the HNS. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Protection Act in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, proposed by the Club of Representatives of the CNS for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies, is not adopted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 67 votes in favour, 6 abstentions and 22 against the accepted proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71722	We move to the next item of the agenda - Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on maritime goods and seaports – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the HSP, first reading of P.Z. No. 489 You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. You received their reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered its opinion. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain the draft law? No, I don't. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Does a government official want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We don't have any charges to discuss. Anybody want to take this? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. And we'll vote on this agenda point tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71723	Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on maritime good and seaports. The Proposer of the Law is the Club of Representatives of the HSP. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on maritime good and seaports proposed by the Association of HSP representatives is not adopted for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 66 votes for, 6 abstentions, 26 against the accepted proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71724	We move to the next draft law - Proposal for a law supplementing the Tax Administration Act – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, first reading of P.Z. No. 491 You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received their reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Does the proposaler's representative want to explain the law? Yeah. Dear fellow Vuljanic, on behalf of the legislator. Here's my colleague Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71725	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, this bill, as you can see, is very simple, short, there's not much text, but it has a connotation. In Croatia, it is a great situation that a man can acquire new property while being unemployed, that he did not pay a tax dinar in the previous year, kuna tax thanks to his colleague, Lesar. It's a mistake. It's tax havens. And this year, to get a new massage, one of those who were sold at a car fair in Zagreb before they came to Zagreb and that no one, that such a person asks nothing about how it came to that property. Tax administration and tax authorities should be bodies comparing human property, taxpayer property and tax paid in the previous year. Such a possibility exists today in the Income Tax Act, however, there are no obligations. And when there's no obligation then the IRS doesn't do it because it's inconclusive, because it can be very difficult in court to go through with such a report because such reports are falling and then the best thing to do is not to do anything, not to react. Our proposal, the proposal for a tax administration law, is to change the obligations of the Tax Administration, the fundamental tasks of that administration and make it one of the basic tasks. Therefore, that the Tax Administration compares the property of the taxpayer, the increase in value and property and the tax paid in the previous period. The next law that follows in the procedure, in the discussion I will say something more detailed about what should happen further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71726	Thank you, dear colleague. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. Does a representative of the government want a word? I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, dear colleague Lesar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71727	It may be a funny topic for someone at a funny time, but for 16 years in Croatia we have been conducting political conflicts and debates. We're going after the charges and we're asking who's to blame that we couldn't determine who's in the pit and who's in it. Who earned it and who stole it. And indeed, all that time we have the IRS and the Law and people are busy and people are working, but there's one little catch, one word that determines what and how. According to the current legal decision when the Tax Administration receives a tax application, the tax card may ask applicants to show about the property it acquired during the observed period. The IRS departments also have log forms, 6 pages of the minutes with a number of issues that point to acquired assets during that period, the way in which the assets are acquired and the sources of funds. And then eventually this IRS should compare assets at the beginning and assets at the end and pay taxes. And now it's a magical matter of this Law that the IRS can do it. We suggested that the word "can" be replaced by "muse" because probably a series of dilemmas, conflicts, tycoons and real tycoons would have been resolved in this way that the IRS had been doing that part of the job since the beginning. We have come up with a strategy to fight corruption. Today, we had a decision on the establishment of a National Council to fight corruption, and in this strategy, it says, among other things, that by changing the law and giving new powers to tax authorities, we will allow that part of the job to be resolved. Since we voted in favour of the anti-corruption strategy as a representative club, and the deadlines for changing existing laws have passed we have decided to propose short interventions in these laws and to offer one of the solutions to the current Tax Administration, the current model and the existing mechanisms doing this job as mandatory. The government has also given a negative opinion here, but I ask you to pay attention to only one sentence of the Government's opinion. The government says in its opinion that this change is necessary to make this change in Croatian law demand from us the legal gains of the European Union. But we'll do it, it says in the government's opinion, not now, but when they ask us to. And it really is. In the screening of the tax section, it was found that the competence of the tax administration was not in line with the legal property of the European Union and that part of the Law of Croatia would need to be changed. Now, then, the problem is that we suggested it too soon, and the government says we'll do it when our negotiators finish watching and when it comes to the conclusion that we have to do it. I don't think we have to do these things when we do it, and we've always done a lot of things in history when she asked us to go to Pest, Vienna, Belgrade. We will now wait for Brussels to ask us to do so, and we know in advance that we will have to do so. The implementation of this Law also does not require a new...... I didn't understand. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Before that? ... And well, I mean, it's hard to keep track of what you're throwing, but the situation is the same. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So it says the government that we're going to do it and we have to do it, but not now, but when they ask for it. If we're aware of that... Let me sit over there, okay? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay. If we are aware that we must do so, let us do so now and make it easier for our negotiators already in this recording process, not when this chapter opens in negotiations. These are the only arguments why we came with that proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71728	Thank you, dear colleague. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear colleague Kapraljevic has his word. Here you go, colleague Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71729	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I know, Mr. Hrelja, I'd like you to let me go to my debate. I know it's pretty late and that a lot of people would like us to give up these discussions of ours. If that's the case, then we'll make sure these discussions last a little longer because we do, believe me, don't rush anywhere because we decided to work here. [[Intruder: No.]] [[No, no, God forbid.]] As far as this bill of ours is concerned, it doesn't change much. One small thing changes, and that's that everything the IRS could do so far, and sometimes it is, sometimes it's not. It's mostly not. We're making it a commitment. So we're giving the IRS a mission to compare the property that someone has with the previous period in which he was supposed to make money for that property and whether he paid taxes for it. It's swearing all the time in Europe and we're talking about Europe, it's the most normal thing in Europe, believe me, everyone there can make a million euros, nobody asks at all, it's normal to make a million euros if they're doing such a job that they can make a million euros from, and nobody asks him anything when he buys one of those million euros, let's say Ferrari if he paid the tax. But if he buys a Ferrari, and their tax administration sees that he hasn't paid his taxes yet the same afternoon the tax collectors come to him and trust me first take his car, and then follow everything that needs to be followed and with us as we wrote in this second bill of law. Why are we going with this law? A colleague said in the introduction, in the opening statement, and Mr. Lesar touched it a little bit, and so the government says all this is good, all this is, the proposal is beautiful, and in any case we will have to regulate our legislation with the acquis of the European Union, but the moment they tell us so. That means we're waiting for the gentlemen in Brussels to tell us if you have to do it now. In the past we've waited for Pest, we've waited for Vienna, we've waited for Belgrade, we've waited for Ljubljana for the bridge in Mura, and now we say again by not knowing which time we're waiting for Brussels. Are we not sufficiently aware of the state we live in, in fact, in the environment around us where we know that the perception of corruption at which level, where we witnessed the abnormal wealth of a certain number of people not in a legal way it certainly is, because if it were then the tax administration, in fact the incomes of this country were different and we all witnessed, each of us probably knows someone who doesn't really do any legal work or does no work, and driving either Porsche or Ferrari or I don't know Maserati or even... , many have yachts, boats at sea varying from 6, 15, 25 meters, and we know they're not doing any legal work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Nobody comes and doesn't check to see if these people paid their taxes, if that money might be a drug accident, if it's greening money, if it's money from any other robbery, no one checks it. We now want to oblige the tax administration with this bill to check it out. If we don't get away with this, and it probably won't work because that's the mood in the assembly, and that's the attitude of strength, at least we hope to provoke one thing that will definitely be the obligation of the tax administration, and this government that's currently in Croatia, which is that all citizens' property cards are finally brought in and here they say it's another point, then I won't be under this point. ... There's time later, here we go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] As we have said, we are not in a hurry, but here means we are giving the tax administration the task of checking what was so far just a possibility for her, giving her the obligation to verify whether the tax was paid in the previous period and whether the tax on property purchased was legally obtained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71730	Thank you, dear colleague Kapraljevic. Correction of an incorrect quote, dear colleague Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71731	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. It would take me a long way to correct all incorrect allegations by my colleagues, but I point out three shorts. So he says we're giving orders to the IRS. My dear colleague, we are not giving this law any order to the tax administration. It is clear which switch is being lit by the tax administration. Let's go, you say we go with this law. We're not going anywhere with this law, this law is being put into practice. You say we know where our corruption is. We don't know yet because we haven't even defined the patterns by which corruption appears in society. Therefore, please keep an eye on your colleague in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71732	Thank you very much for correcting the incorrect quote. Does the proposaler's representative want a final word? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on this point. We'll also vote tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71733	Proposal for a law supplementing the Tax Administration Act. Proposer of the Law is the Club of Representatives of the HNS. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law supplementing the Tax Administration Act proposed by the Croatian Representatives' Club for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies is not adopted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 67 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and 28 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71734	My colleagues and colleagues, we move to the last point of tonight's work - Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the General Tax Law – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the HNS, first reading of P.Z. No. 492 You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received their reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered its opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear fellow Vuljanic, on behalf of the legislator. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71735	Obscrupulous weather and a bit of an impeccable subject, but it's not worthless. In this proposal of the law, we are considering what is stated in the previous one, so what should the tax administration do now to finally stand in line for those in the Western countries where we see ourselves standing in line long ago. In fact, Al Capone wasn't arrested when he killed half of Chicago, but then I caught him cheating on his taxes, that is. That he spent more than he reported in his tax card. We therefore propose that the tax administration must compare the property of the taxpayer, the increase in the value of the property, regardless of whether it is real estate, the movables obtained in ownership, the lying or the like, and when it finds that it is mandatory, when it finds that there has been discrimination, there is a difference between the tax paid and the increase in property, so something he has spent compulsory to submit to the State's attorney's criminal application. In fact, believe it or not, but we in our Penal Code have a criminal act of tax evasion, tax evasion, tax fraud, and this felony a very long legal sentence can pull back. I have not heard that someone was responsible for this crime in Croatia, probably not so soon, but there it is. Therefore, when that procedure is initiated before the State Attorney's Office, the tax administration is also obliged to submit to the competent court a request which should enter into an emergency procedure under the proposal of these amendments to the freezing laws of that property or of the temporary withdrawal of the inability to burden and inability to sell and sell those assets until the procedure is completed, regardless of whether it is movement or real estate. The situation is very simple. In fact, we are all probably aware that people with the highest legal incomes and we are among them among the higher salaries in the Republic of Croatia are not the ones with the largest assets. We are aware that we have acquaintances who are social cases from the Principality or from another neighborhood and have never paid any taxes, have never been reported to work anywhere and have assets that far exceed and receive and property of a well-standing citizen. People like that laugh at our faces, people like that tell us we're fools, people like that tell us we're idiots for applying taxes. Such people corrupt those among us who are prone to corruption. People like that actually disintegrate the body of society. I can accept that it's very difficult organised crime to prove, that our "Eliot Nesi" with this have very bad experiences, arrests half of the Princess and then these go out, etc. However, this way may not fit on the tail of illegal earnings. There are illegal earnings everywhere in the world, there is black money everywhere in the world but they would introduce an institute in Croatia that does not exist in Croatia and that is money laundering. The black criminal who made the money in Croatia has no need to follow the money. He takes a bag of cash, goes to the car show and buys a car. He takes a bag of cash, goes out and buys a house at sea. No one, no one alive will ask him, sir, where did you get the money, how did you get it, if you paid your taxes. One of Mr. Mladne's answers is, so the man says he got a present from his uncle in America, and he's getting away with it in court. A gift from an uncle in America was supposed to go over an account and a tax is also paid on donations. Did you pay your gift tax from your uncle in America? Of course, the implementation of this law requires the introduction of a record of property. Property records are popularly called property cards. We have introduced this for state officials, today we have introduced for all judges, or tomorrow we will probably vote but it is obvious that we live in a country where such a thing is necessary for all citizens. It wouldn't make a big exception in the world. The government of the Republic of Croatia gave its response consisting of three elements. I don't know which one's in greater contradiction with the other two. The first says it's necessary, the first part of the answer says it's necessary to do it, there are really these problems that we're not dealing with right now. The second says we can't introduce it because we don't have a single database. And the third says that now that we join the European Union, we will have to do it according to the European Union's dictatorship. Now, dear government gentlemen, if that's really a problem, and if there's a problem, we don't have a database, so let's do it. Who's going to make it? Who's going to make it? Who's going to make it? We suggest that such a database is caused by the tax administration. Okay, maybe somebody else can do it, maybe the Ministry of Finance can do it, maybe the Ministry of Agriculture can do it. I don't know. But that database needs to be made. And if we need it to catch our criminals, to catch people who cheat on this country, who cheat on every kindergarten, every road, every hospital, every school by avoiding taxes. If that's what we need someone from Brussels to tell us if you have to do it, then our entry into Europe doesn't make any sense. Well, we're not going into Europe because someone tells us to, but we're going into Europe because we want to be alone, because we want to operate on a civilized level where thieves can't drive in maybases, mustans, I don't know what they call all these wonders in Zagreb that a decent citizen can't earn for 50 years of his job. When you count everything you've got in 50 years, you're not gonna raise a lot of money for a mayonnaise. Ask the Prince's boys how these maybassies are bought. Apparently, in this state, a government that doesn't support such a law I can't show her trust no matter whose it was, and the HNS government and the SDP government, a government that doesn't want to catch thieves obviously has business with thieves and it's worth it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71736	There's no need to overdo it. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Does a government official want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, dear colleague Lesar. Here you go, buddy!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71737	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Imagine if you passed a bill like this thirty months ago to deal with Cacic easily. Here's a colleague, Markovanovic, wouldn't lose three months in, excuse me, nine months in the commission, and we'd like to list him on 3, 4. He'd be down within 24 hours. Just adopt this Act and we solved the problem of all those so if you remember, if you remember, I was on the wallpaper at one point that you should also study how to acquire my property. ... [[The intruders don't understand.]] Thank you, dear colleague Markovanovic, for reminding me of my colleague Letica's debate. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] For that money he gets for one term, I'd say anything and answer to no one. But I'm taking you back to the bill. So what is this law talking about? That all these suspicious people that you, at this meeting, have claimed that you should and should examine everything, this law allows it. That's exactly what he's talking about. And all the millionaires. I want to believe that if Prime Minister Sanader were to ask himself that he would support this bill because then all speculation about how to acquire its property would also be removed without any doubt. And no doubt at all. And that no more investigative committee in the House should form about how someone has come into the property and who has the property and is in conflict of interest in the acquisition of that property? Secondly, we had a debate and there will be a health reform package tomorrow. I will quote Minister Ljubicic that the criteria for payment and payments, the administrative fees this package introduces, are because we force the tycoons to use benefits in the health system. Secondly, instead of income censorship, we introduce property censorship into the law. Now tell me if it makes any sense when we're already in the health system introducing property censorship, tomorrow we'll probably do it in social care which is good because a really big part of the social care funds goes to those who would have no right to do so. So, following this trend, and in the health system tomorrow, we have an asset censorship, we suggest that the property card actually be the ticket to prove the acquisition of property, the payment of taxes, but at the same time the document to obtain certain benefits that the state gives to taxpayers. Why does only one group of citizens of this country have to give property cards? We in the Parliament, members of the government and those who belong to the rank of state officials. Because it's the richest caste in Croatia. Because it's the only group of people who are suspicious of how she acquired some of her property? Because they're the only ones that the tax administration can control if it has an property card or is it really a public interest only in the property of parliamentarians? Therefore, the property card would not be the obligation of the tax administration and taxpayers, as on the one hand, to prove the payment of the tax, the legal acquisition of the property and, on the other hand, as documents based on which the citizen acquires certain benefits that the laws give him. We are discussing the problem of the state government and the competent institutions not being able to resolve the drug dealer issue. All these publicly named and publicly unnamed drug dealers, drug dealers have a terrible asset that all citizens in their environment see. They've never been asked where he got that car, the cottage, the villa, the yacht, the plane, the boat, anything else. Smugglers to people. I am near the border so daily I witness the columns of people from all over the world who cross the Croatian-Slovenian border paying for fat money. We had the age and litter of a gang that was the organizer of Romania's largest route across Hungary to Slovenia and Western Europe. They are terribly wealthy individuals and even prominent citizens of this country because of their assets and a terrible charity when they give money to kindergartens, hospitals, buy appliances to homes of health and are then on the front pages of the media as benefactors of social development. And then we have gun dealers who are rich, rich, who don't even have swear income on their property cards, tax cards. We also have converted tycoons that have become rich in conversion all by law and legal, but no one has ever asked about property and paid property tax. And at the end of the chamber. Prime Minister Sanader said about two months ago that the time had come for Croatia to deal with interest rates. It's them, that fifth group of people, the citizens, that I have to watch myself express myself against them so I don't get a warning again, they get property illegal. They invest that property, invest in legal flows of financial, monetary, kuna, foreign exchange, real estate and other assets. And now there's no law that needs to be changed that we have neither criminal nor criminal, nor criminal proceedings other than this to give the tax administration the right to claim a state of property. And on one question only, on one question where and when the tax on the property you own is paid, they pass or fall. Is that the interest of the state budget? Yeah. Is this an interest in the development of democracy and the confidence of citizens in the institutions of the state? Yeah. Is that the interest of justice in society? Yeah. Does this Law share people by party? No, I don't. Does he release or grant benefits to government officials? No, I don't. Is it causing new costs in the state budget? Perhaps a little, in part, that form and system of property cards that tax administrations already have for a part of the citizens should be extended to other taxpayers. Will he give the effects now? No, I don't. Perhaps the first two three years of adoption of this intervention won't be a full effect. But we're going to start raising a young generation of tax officials, inspectors and taxpayers so that there's no tax evasion in this country. If you can do anything in the Republic of Croatia, you can criticise everyone, you can also show the president of the state, the Prime Minister and parliamentary representatives in cartoons, but you can't do two things. You must not insult and insult this country's constitution and tax evasion and tax fraud. Is there greater benefit for Croatia's future than those two goals? After these 5 categories of drug dealers, human traffickers, arms dealers, privatisation profiters and interesters, let's say after 3 years when the reckoning with these 5 categories follows and approaches the other citizens. No one will resist this proposal honestly in its implementation. It will also benefit the pensioners because we will not have to discuss how much debt we will be in charge of, how to settle the new pensioners after 1.1.1999, and the consequences, especially how to solve the problem of those we have come from Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, which we discussed the other night here, Bosnia and Herzegovina, yes. Those were our motives when we proposed this. And I must tell you that in other law proposals that can contain political content, which can have party competition and political competition, we did not seriously expect full support and positive. But I don't understand why this bill didn't get a positive opinion from the government either. This makes it clear again that this proposal is in line with the acquis of the European Union, that Croatia will have to apply this part of the legislation, but not now but when Brussels will ask us to do so. I can't wait for Brussels to ask us to do so, so we're going to adopt similar content of the law on the government's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71738	Thank you, colleague Lesar. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear colleague Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71739	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here today we were listening to some of our colleagues from HDZ who, when we discussed this law, said that it was something we should bring in anyway, only that this is not the time to bring in such a thing now. And there was also a finding that in this state of our poor country, the only one paying taxes. Because those who have in any way manage to get away with paying taxes. And all of these groups that my colleague Lesar mentioned to a large part of those groups, in fact almost everyone, they never pay taxes, and they all own big property, whether it's real estate, movable property. Each of them acquired it in an illegal way by not paying the tax. A colleague, Vuljanic, said Al Capone did not end up in prison in America for killing people and that's a fact. He ended up in prison because he didn't pay his taxes. How do we go about taxing from those who have so far avoided it in all possible ways, and they avoided it because the system did not come to them to take their taxes. There is a moment where we need to decide whether to draw the line and start with a new one in fact to form property cards from which to register the initial state of every citizen and where the tax administration will then be able to check that state to control that situation and control the revenues in the previous period, see if the tax is paid and whether any property purchased during that period could be bought from those incomes that we have earned, and also to pay the tax. It is very important that we withdraw as soon as possible and move into a new society, in a society where taxes will not only be paid by the poor, not only by those who have no one as a protector but also by those who earn some money or steal money and who do not pay any tax. As Parliamentarians, we filled out the property cards. In the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, we wrote that these first cards that we have filled are not to say which one of us has, which one of us is richer or poorer, but from the beginning of the mandate and at the end of the term of office. In order for the commission to examine whether we acquired more assets during that term than we had our incomes. So if this was introduced to us parliamentary representatives and other state officials, wouldn't it be fair to all these citizens, to those people who pay taxes in this country to introduce it to both thieves and those who are not, they will never and will never pay taxes. That's why I'm calling for the parliamentary majority to support this proposal because eventually something similar will come to our agenda, and then we'll all have to support it together because it's what he said... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71740	Thank you very much, colleague Kapraljevic. The replica of my colleague Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71741	Your Honor, Mr. President. My dear colleague said that we must draw the line and that it is time to join a new society. I think that's a big problem. The line may be easy to underline, but it can't be entered into a new society, we have to create that society. We need to change ourselves and change people around us. I will also use this replica in a way that in some way I will not report specifically and say that the Croatian Party of Retired People and I personally support this bill and I think it is a real shame that it is so easy to pass through this law because we share the opinion that through such laws a monetary mass can be created for all those categories that my colleague Lesar mentioned in his debate. I just want to draw attention to the fact that we're not going into any new society, but that society is our job to create it, and that was the reason that I volunteered for the replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71742	Okay. But that's also the reason you get a reply to the replica. Here is my colleague Kapraljevic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71743	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's me thanking you and, at least someone got involved in this debate or got into this debate about our bill proposals. I also expected someone from HDZ to come into the debate, but here I see that the warrant was probably different. But since you've already told your colleague Hrelja it's easy to draw a line and it's hard to get into a new society, so I want to tell you one thing. With this, we may not be going into a new society, but we're going to open the door to this new society and I want to remind you that society isn't bad because society is bad or let me explain it to you like this. We don't need to change people to make society normal, but we need to change the system that will make these people work normally.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71744	Thank you very much. Do the proposing representatives want to take the final word? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. And we'll vote on this wheel tomorrow. Dear colleagues, tomorrow we will discuss the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, the Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, and the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia, also the proposal of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, of course, on the assumption that in the morning before that the work of the working bodies of the parent who did not do so today. Tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 p.m. after the debate on these two bill proposals has been held we will probably have an appropriate time to vote on all the points discussed which have been subject to voting.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71745	Does that mean we don't do vice president Friday?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71746	Friday is normal, but there won't be a plenary session.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71747	Well, that's what I asked no, for God's sake.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71748	Have a good night's rest and good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-12-0.u71749	Proposal for a law supplementing the General Tax Code. The proposer of the law is the Club of Representatives of the HNS. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law supplementing the General Tax Code proposed by the CNS Representatives Club for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government, reports by the working bodies shall not be adopted. Please vote. The result? With 63 votes for, 4 abstentions and 29 against the proposed conclusion. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are continuing with a session of discussions on - - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts - Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, first reading of P.Z. No. 494 The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. The government has delivered its opinion. On behalf of the promoter, he will further explain the proposal for a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
