ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57933	Your Honor, Mr. President, MPs, MPs. To me, it is a pleasure that we can present, in short, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in person but on behalf of the entire sports community, the law that we believe is necessary and that it can definitely solve those fundamental settings of Croatian sport and make it more efficient, more competitive and what is most important systematic. The idea of the whole law is a system and, I would say, harmonize with the trends that exist with regard to sports in developed countries, but also taking into account Croatian specificities, heritage and what is particularly important, trends in Croatia's approximation towards the European Union. I would also like to stress that this, this Law is a product of more than 120 public debates involving practically all those involved in sport. I primarily mean national sports alliances, sports communities across all counties in the Republic of Croatia, Croatian Olympic Committee, Croatian Sports Association of Persons, Croatian University Sports Federation, Law Faculty of Kinesiology, but also a number of individuals interested in sports and not included in some special organisations. I also want to say that the members of the team who participated have visited several countries that, I would say, have developed a sports tradition, but also have some specificities so that we have actually taken some of the models from those who have passed similar forms such as, for example, reshaping, and almost all of the European states that have the law have been studied. Anyway, this Law, I'm going to try to explain briefly, there are a few basic settings that we've reduced to nine key points of what I'm going to say. The first to actually be the dream of every athlete, and I myself went through that catharsis of Croatian sports, especially amateur sports, is a strategy. This Law adopts a national sport programme, and this is a document establishing a long-term sport development policy in the Republic of Croatia, as well as ensuring all of those key conditions that such a strategy can be implemented in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, the Croatian state as a state that achieves exceptional results on sport cannot abandon another category, and this is the issue of amateur sports, but also sports for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We are witnessing that a number of countries only now after cases that 60 or 70% of children in primary schools are threatening, developing a strategy to develop sport. Of course, Croatia wants to prevent and start on time. On the other hand, this document, unlike all previous documents concerning sports, brings the Croatian Parliament to the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and this document is brought for an 8-year period, which is about the European Union's system. This is extremely important because it cannot be allowed to change the authorities or any policy options of sport as a system to come into question or that someone does not like the strategy of long-term development of sport. I think it is extremely important to say that the strategy that is adopted at 8 years can be comprehensive, can be measurable, can be comparable and what is most important, the strategy can also be financially planned. On the other hand, one of the key preconditions for the reforms we have implemented in the system of higher education science was, I would say, the setting up of one body, which is the National Council for Science and the National Council for Higher Education, the Assembly Body, which as the highest body in these areas is actually a strong wind in the back of implementing and making decisions that no political option or government itself can make without political consensus. This is why our proposal is to put the National Sports Council on its feet, which is the most professional body appointed and resolved by the Croatian Parliament. This body, as such, sets priorities and all those projects that are necessary to implement in this long-term strategy of 8 years, but also discusses the biggest issues that are important for Croatian sport on which no other body, no matter how brilliant or good it can be seen, including the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports or the Croatian Olympic Committee. But most importantly, it proposes and encourages measures to improve sports and this point is absolutely consistent with what exists today in the Member States of the European Union. One of the issues that is in the debates, I would say, has the most support, which is the issue of resolving the system of children in sport. The point of this Law is that every Croatian child is engaged in sports. To return the traditions of the school competition, between classes, between schools, by county competitions, and then they best go national competitions. However, here we have foreseen the establishment of a Croatian School Sports Federation which, for the first time in the Republic of Croatia, becomes a roof body that will systematically take care of school sports and children. This is extremely important because the only alliance can have insight into the real needs and really moving trends of sports in schools. He also prescribes an advantage for children in the use of sports halls, and at this point you who are in sport know very well that unfortunately very often it is children who, besides having only 30% of school facilities that are related to sports facilities, are children who actually after 6 or 7 hours of school can't because of recreation and other appointments. And we're talking about wanting a sports nation. On the other hand, through this system, we want to define who can work with children. That's the key questions. Otherwise you'll see through this whole system that we've put a few categories in because of course we have top athletes. You can't tell a top athlete that he can't be a coach whether he has a high school or not, but in working with children there must be an education that will guarantee that this child will not get hurt, that this child can develop systematically in terms of sports, or that the profession will stand behind that child. We have foreseen special health care for children who are involved in sports, as a doctor, as a pediatrician here I must warn that this is one of the key issues because very few children who are in sport undergo thorough systematic medical examinations that I am not talking about the issue of the cardio-respiratory system, that I am not talking about all the motor problems that are happening today in children, and it simply has to become a matter of the system. A part of children, of course, will not be able to engage in sports in the way many think they do or parents want. Monitoring and directing children in the sports system is one of the key issues. Some of the surveys done abroad that I am familiar with say that up to 20% to 30% of sports-related children are not properly presented to them with no interest in sports. It's one of the key issues we want to solve. The children lost their authority, their role models. Sports is one of the shortest and fastest ways to get them back. I think it is particularly important to highlight the issue of the establishment of the Croatian Paralympic Committee and the Croatian Olympic Committee of the Deaf where Croatia's sport is finally in line with the system of sport that exists in the world and which definitely these two committees have listed as a question of not only the trends of democracy but the real needs and attitudes towards categories of people who have achieved exceptional results and so far have not been able to do so systematically. One of the questions that is certain is extremely important to me as well as to the Minister of Science, Education and Sports, which is that this Law brings a network of sports facilities like we started with a network of schools because finally in the Republic of Croatia it must be determined where it is necessary to build sports facilities? We have a number of cases that we get proposals for building two sports facilities in a space of no more than 500, 600 meters and on the other hand you have areas that are completely uncovered by sports facilities. For your information and according to my last is only 30% of schools in the Republic of Croatia have a sports facility connected to them. And we're talking about the Croatian state as a state of sport. Also, prohibitions or removals or re-uses of areas intended for public sports buildings or other non-sports interests are prescribed. And in other words, if there is a sports facility it cannot collapse and in its place build a building or skyscraper without respecting that there may be 1,000 or 2,000 children in that environment who go to school who will not be able to engage in sports. Or football field or handball court or volleyball court or tennis court. I think it's extremely important because so far the situation has been such that actually sports facilities have been the most attractive areas where buildings have been built and where many have profited by not thinking at all whether it is necessary for children in the area to have some sports facilities? We believe that the information system throughout the Republic of Croatia is extremely important so that the information system, the system in sport where literally daily databases will be updated and all information related to sport activities, individual alliances, Croatian school sports alliances, and also where will be taken into account about human resources policy and where will be taken into account of the most talented children of the primary school so that they are practically monitored throughout their age that we finally know how talented they are, how talented they are about sports and where they are finished? It's one systematic care of children in sports that I especially stress here. Australia has one, made a phenomenal move that made this system not only in sport but in education where practically through the system, their structure as a county has literally every child that follows over a period of 15, 20 years. And it's a system. And they know what happens to these children so that those children can't be excesses or accidentally strayed at school. Professional sports business. An extremely important issue which precisely and clearly determines certain professional activities in sport as well as the necessary conditions for performing these activities in sport. For years there was a hole, and for years there was a problem where the top athletes themselves faced problems because their status was not really defined, but neither did the people who finished the kinesiology. Sportsmen and coaches. Inside this for the first time, the coach is defined by law. It's also a category of jobs that it can do. Subsidized scholarships are defined for studies at higher universities for top athletes. We are the witnesses and the Duja Draganja cases and many other athletes where when you need to solve question 3 or 4 top athletes you have a series of legal ones, I would say the regulators that actually hold you back to help these people. And I think this is an extremely important point for which we're going to get everybody's support. Special conditions for schooling people who are in sports. And to top athletes. You know that there are universities in the world that simply receive children who are the most talented, especially American colleges, from all over the world. Why? Because through sports, they do promotions and colleges, but also their own countries. Croatia is I would say at the very beginning about this philosophy. And I hope this law makes one move. Special conditions of military service for athletes and trainers. It's also an important question because it doesn't really matter where they spend a year and how their careers will last during that year. Now I would like to touch on a question that interests me to say a large number of people involved, what we call professional sport and after a number of debates, following numerous suggestions, following an analysis of numerous models of Austria's, Slovenia's model, analysis of the Spanish model and some other countries, it is clear that Croatia must step up about this. For what? Because Croatian sport is in front of bankruptcy. Croatian sport today is literally free of interest on today in a length of 429 million 881 thousand in professional sport and through the contributions of athletes close to 30 million. With interest, we climb to 700 million kuna. If someone asks a question, then we're talking about 700 million kunas, if someone asks what to do with this debt? With this amount? How do you treat him? Is he at this point being led as a notion of forgiveness? Is he forgiven now? Then what's happening right now, this passivity is actually the reason for two key things. The first is by accumulation of debts, and the second is by providing or providing preconditions for all those who deal with the gray or black market in sport so that they can act. It is therefore extremely important to say that the model proposed, a model we call the reshaping of sports clubs or associations into sports shareholders companies, ensures in accordance with the existing law the possibility that the club that is first-class, can set an example for the first-ever football league to survive bankruptcy because today literally respecting the law is practically the first-ever football league and other leagues leading to bankruptcy. The experience of a Slovenian, I was recently with their minister. They say, "Olympics after bankruptcy never came into place where she was." She's starting out of the Fourth Football League. The effect made on Slovenian football has not improved until today. And the easiest thing to do is to make an absolute bankruptcy and simply leave the football league at two clubs or clubs from the second or third leagues to get into the first league. And the question is, what have we done with it? The model that the Spanish have made guarantees that bankruptcy can always happen, but we're opening a small door to make it happen and I'm going to say briefly what's going on? There are several steps to be taken. The first and the key, which has never been made in Croatian sport, which is an audit. The audit aims to determine the actual value of the club, all claims by the creditors. It determines the property, rights, obligations, business review of the sports club, and whether there are objectively conditions for bankruptcy in that club. So, one deep review of the situation at the club that we can talk about honestly. No one's ever cared about football clubs like that. Why? Because the Association of Citizens functions on a significantly different basis than a shareholder society does. What's our problem with that? So the problem is that the UEF and others, when I say football, don't know the way the business that exists today in citizens' associations. They consider him intransparent. They think he can't function as such. They think it is not a contribution to the fight against crime and there is simply no choice about it. The second step, if the conditions for bankruptcy exist, opens up the possibility of reshaping and reshaping very clearly defines that after establishing the actual value of debts and claims you practically have a revision and what we have said to the Committee for Professional Sports Clubs. According to the Spanish model, several key steps should be taken. First. We need to keep a complete record of all the documents that exist, secret contracts and all those documents that we haven't met. Because dear colleagues and colleagues are asked what the value of a club is if local self-government is the owner of buildings. What's the value of the club? Well, the value of the club is players. How many contracts the Croatian public doesn't know about? According to our estimates, they can be between 30% and 40%, and then the real question is who owns and these players. The value of the club can be zero kuna, it can be a million kuna, it can be 20 million kuna. Unfortunately, in Croatian sport, lower and lower and because of the state of Croatian sport, but also because of a series of contracts we don't really know about. The Committee for Professional Sports Clubs agrees on the selection of audits and this is a double control that is known to countries dealing with the issue of transparency and, of course, consent to the elaborate which is necessary afterwards and subsequently establishing the underlying value of capital. What is extremely important to say in this case if cities and counties are thus the owners of sports facilities, if they are owners of space and football fields, then it is logical to expect the state as the greatest believer to transfer its rights to a local self-government that thus starts with a zero kuna debt which we do not consider forgiveness of debts. But on the other hand you get one control mechanism that as a club owner local self-government takes full responsibility over the club's business. Because if local self-government can run local, municipal and other infrastructures and businesses and do positive business, then it can also run a sports shareholder society. If she is unable to lead it, then of course she is asking the question and always opens up the issue of bankruptcy, but with far greater responsibility than it is now when the state is in charge of... in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also extremely important to say that local self-government can thus decide what to do with the club during the time period to come. She can be his owner over the years. He can do business positively, but if after three, four years it turns out that this club can't do business they can put it and sell it and it's his right and anyone who has living money or cash can buy that club. I would say a lot wiser than some other countries, which is no matter who buys that club, if he buys it he has to because the club is allowed to work profitablely which will ensure that he invests in sports. The first thing he has to do to settle his obligations, and the second thing he does is make a investment in the spring. It is an extremely important step because tomorrow you can have about Croatian clubs to be bought by some stranger who has no interest in the spring and that is one of the points we insisted on in this law. I'd say all alliances supported the most. And there's also one question here that I want to say right now, and that's the question of whether everyone has to go through with the transformation. Well, of course not. Those who meet the conditions for bankruptcy can go bankrupt, can go into transformation, and clubs that do not have debts are about 30% today they do not need to enter and they can function as an association of citizens as in many other countries. Or someone to force the citizens' association to become a professional sports shareholder society is also dangerous, especially if there is no clean or living capital. That applies to all amateur clubs. Also, a question arises which one can own inside the club. Experiences that prevent the conflict of interest of other countries say that up to 25% of the underlying capital can be one person, and if it goes beyond that, it must be given the special approval of the commission that I was talking about. The committee which has 7 members and which is very well defined which enters it shall always enter the relevant sports alliance under discussion. Also, a question arises in which one person can be owned in two clubs. The experiences of other countries say very clearly that this amount cannot be greater than 1% of the total share capital and what I would say allow me to bring this introductory exposé to an end, which is a question of sports clubs that have no status, professional status or amateur clubs. One extremely important question where there is a accumulated debt that is significantly smaller than this debt, but which is problematic, because today you have 85% of children or athletes who are in amateur clubs. Now, about today, it's pretty hard to say, but since 2046 we've come practically somewhere 850 in front of an executive procedure and they have completely blocked accounts. If you ask the question of how they do business, then the only way they can do business in black is the truth that needs to be spoken of in public. In this way amateur clubs would be provided for a period of five years to breathe, to start functioning normally, to unblock all their accounts, to put them on our feet, and then through a rule that is practically amateur clubs with minimal debt would either continue to work as amateur clubs or stop the need for their existence or be transformed. It is a model that has been seen and it is a model that would at this moment practically free all amateur sports clubs in the Republic of Croatia from blocked accounts, children, judges, competitors and all those operating on black give the right to legitimately engage in sports in the Republic of Croatia. Remember the number. I'm talking about 850 clubs that are being blocked right now because they're in front of blocked accounts. 850 clubs, and we're talking about a total debt of 700 million kuna with interest. What is it if it's not bankruptcy. In the end, allow me to make this bill no matter what it's been doing systematically for so long, no matter what public debates have gone through, there are a few issues that are open and I think it's actually very important that you respected colleagues and colleagues discuss it, discuss it, open up some issues that are always being imposed. It's one of those questions, the manager question, how to define the manager in sports. Many countries do not define it through law, but it is necessary to have the license of their own sports alliance to perform. However, what is extremely important, if we define it, then the manager cannot be in conflict of interest and then manager as anywhere else in the world cannot acquire shares and have functions in the national sports alliance. It's okay with citizens' associations. It's about the manager, because that's one of the questions we left open. We have left some other open questions that are extremely important to hear the opinion of the Croatian Parliament. And these are also on certain rights that certain investors, investors with regard to sport, can have. And I would say at this point, this law that we propose is the experience of our predecessors. You know this law has been done for almost six to seven years. The last government made one contribution. The law came to a second reading, or even passed another reading. Then he didn't go through like that. We took all the experience from before, enriched with completely new knowledge, included trends that exist, I would say today within the European Union that were not known 2, 3 years ago about sport. We took a transformation model that exists in several states, I'm primarily talking about Spain. The model that exists in Germany regarding the redesign of school and sports facilities and a number of other positive experiences that the countries that care about sport have made. And in the end, I would ask a rhetorical question. if Croatian athletes now achieve exceptional results in the way of sport that is organised today, where we must say that huge energy is invested through individual family approaches, trainers that make maximum efforts, what the results of Croatian athletes will achieve when the system is introduced into Croatian sport exactly Mr. President in the way we have proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57934	Thank you very much. The Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. Committee President, Honored Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57935	Mr. President, Mr. Minister with his associates. If I made a joke, it would be a great success to get another reading. At the Committee meeting, we wished to discuss the proposal for this law at the 28th session held yesterday, March 2, 2006. And after the debate, we are therefore in the capacity of the home working body and after the opening presentation, the proposing representative pointed out that the proposal of the Sport Act is the result of almost six years of cooperation with all relevant entities in the field of sport, sports associations, sports clubs, the Croatian Olympic Committee, the Faculty of Kinesiology, the Faculty of Law of the University of Zagreb. The Sport Act sets out the obligation to adopt the National Sport Programme as an important strategic document to identify the objectives and tasks of sport development in the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, the representative noted that for the first time, for example, some European countries are proposing the establishment of a National Sports Council that will be relevant for the development and quality of the entire sport in the Republic of Croatia. The proposal provides social care for children and regulates the priority of using school sports spaces, and for the first time determines the conditions that professionals must meet in sport. In order to protect further devastation and loss, both sports buildings and land intended for their construction, the bill prescribes criteria by which the building is to be considered sports, as well as the obligations of local self-government and regional, regional, administration and the City of Zagreb to bring in a network of sports buildings. After this opening presentation, a debate was held, which seemed to me unanimously welcomed the reference of the Law on Sport in the legislative procedure, as it has been done for almost 6 years. However, as it is a very complex law, it is clearly stated in the debate that he will not be able to resolve all open issues and satisfy all interests that appear today in Croatian sport. In the debate, the principle noted that the issues of tax relief in sports activity were not defined, as well as the right to retire top athletes. It is pointed out that insufficient financial resources are allocated to sport in the state budget. The view is expressed that the National Sports Council should play an exclusive advisory role, and that part of the role played by the Croatian Olympic Committee should not be taken over. In addition to Article 18, he is concerned that sports clubs will be able to manipulate more than 50% of licensed athletes according to the current law proposal so that they do not have to, so as not to have to be registered professional sports clubs, thereby avoiding transformation into sports stock companies. In the debate, he also stressed the opinion that the National Sports Council will have the power and legitimacy to fight better status of Croatian sport according to its composition and competences, as the highest professional body. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously, with 7 votes in favour, decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to draw the next conclusion. First, the proposal of the Sport Act is accepted. Secondly, all comments and proposals tabled in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57936	Thank you. The Tourism Committee. The President of the Committee, the Honorable Representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57937	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with his associates. At the 28th session of the Committee held on 2 March 2006, the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal of the Law on Sport, the first reading, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 9 February 2006. The tourism committee considered the final proposal, it considered the proposal for this law on the basis of Article 140. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as an interested working body. The introductory presentation on the basis of which the law in question and the explanation of certain implementing solutions are proposed on behalf of the applicant was submitted by Mr Nevio Šetić, State Secretary of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. In a general debate on the proposed law, the Committee on Tourism expressed its support for its adoption, particularly given the need for financial consolidation of sports clubs by establishing effective supervision and transparent business of all sports clubs in the Republic of Croatia. In the discussion of the specifics and text of the proposed law, the Committee on Tourism pointed to the fact that Article 55 of the Law on Tourism was a matter of nature. The bill, defined sports activities where sports recreation and sports lessons are listed among other things. Since sports facilities are part of the tourist offer of hotel and other accommodation facilities for which there is growing interest, it is necessary to regulate this area by law. In this respect, it is proposed that the proposed law, that the proposed law should lay down conditions, criteria and procedures for the registration of domestic and foreign natural and legal persons providing sports training services in tourist areas such as sailing schools, diving schools, flight schools, etc. as well as sports recreation within hotel and other accommodation facilities. On the basis of the debate held, the Committee on Tourism unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the following conclusions: The proposal for a law on sport is accepted. References and proposals from the debate shall be made to the applicant for the preparation of the final draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57938	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. A SDP representative club, a respected representative of Biserka Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57939	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, on behalf of the SDP club, I would like to express my satisfaction that we have finally received the new Sport Act announced so long. At the same time, I hope that this time, just as my colleague Vidovic said earlier, he will not only remain on his first reading and that his final form will also see the light of day. And in order not to be unnecessarily corrected, I will immediately explain why I use the term "sport," not "sport." In fact, sport is not a Croatian word but originally English, which is also written in German but according to German phonetics rules is pronounced as sport. Since the letter "s" is at the beginning of the word "p." Well, as its source is in English, I believe that sport is a more correct term, although both terms are equated with this law, as well as different uses in different parts of Croatia. Since the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia determines sport as an activity of special state interest, it must also have a special place in our society. But if we look at the allocations for sport from the original funds in the state budget for this year of 0.64 promila or about 70 million kuna, it is hard to believe in sports as a special state interest, although we all pride ourselves on the success of our athletes in international competitions. These funds are about the same as those allocated by the city of Rijeka for sport, for example, but if I say it is about 10% of the city budget, it is clear how important Rijeka attaches to sport. If we withdraw the parallel with budgetary allocation for cultural programming activities, it turns out that the allocations for sport are only about 9% of the amount for cultural programmes and that the sports budget at national level is less than the annual budget of the Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb. We should not be surprised, therefore, that only 10% of citizens are covered by constant or occasional sports activities, and it is not necessary to stress the role of sport in maintaining the psychophysical health of people and forming a personality in the educational and educated process of children and youth. In order to change the picture of the current situation, we believe it is necessary to increase the funding of sports through the state budget as well as to stimulate investment by economic operators in sport through tax relief. It seems to me that these questions are not clearly resolved, or even referred to through this law. It is the impression that the law too deals with the internal organisation of professional clubs, i.e. sports companies, as well as the relations of legal and physical persons in them, and I am not sure whether it can solve the accumulated problems in financing and in the functioning of professional sport at all, or should these problems be dealt with infrequently by the State's Attorney's Office. The problem of football club debts cannot be identified with sport at all, and this law can be put into the function of adjudicating those debts. On the contrary, even though more attention has been paid to athletes as sports subjects than in the existing law, this law does not solve the basic status and existential issues of top athletes either. This primarily refers to unprofessional athletes, I mean sports scholarships, pension, disability and health insurance. Professionals permanently resolve their status and existence with one signature when they arrive at the club, but I will say something more later in an individual debate. A few more concrete remarks. Above all, the part relating to membership in congregations, administrations, and committees. We believe that national alliances should autonomously prescribe who can and who cannot be a member of these bodies because they know best who can and how they affect the system of competition and the results achieved. On the other hand, professional associations such as coaching associations, judges, representatives, doctors, etc. through their representatives, they must be able to participate in the work and decision-making of the working bodies of clubs, i.e. alliances. Therefore, the Sport Act in its provisions should not be a means of resolving disagreements and conflicts in a sport, and with these same provisions of some other sports, be an obstacle in an effective and successful war, especially when it comes to sports in which those persons do not have professional associations, so where they are members of clubs and therefore have the right to be elected or elected in the bodies of clubs, or alliances. In particular, it is necessary to highlight the participation and membership of many of them in international sports associations and it is not logical that they participate actively in the design of international regulations, and that the law prevents them from actively participating in the sport system in the Republic of Croatia. A few words about a professional sports club. I must mention here an article 18, which mentions licensed athletes in paragraph 1, and is not mentioned before or after, so it is unclear what is under that thought, who gives the license and based on what. Paragraph 2 of the same article is not clear enough and not grammatically accurate, so it is impossible to interpret it. I wonder who I quote: "the one considered to be a ruling society in terms of the provisions of the Law on Trade Associations on Related Companies, i.e. the one it has a dominant influence on", finished the quote. I really don't know who she is. Article 22(2) states that the club must, I repeat, be transformed into a stock company if it is a professional club within the meaning of Article 18 and that a solution has been issued on the registration of professional sports clubs. However, Article 5 of Article 18 states that the professional club referred to in paragraph 1 of the same article must be entered in the register of professional sports clubs, so it must be a company as soon as it is registered in the register pursuant to Article 22 while Article 16 states that the club can be an association and a share company with the status of a company, both of which may not mean that they must have the status of a professional sports club. Therefore, this article shows that there are 3 forms. So, the association, the company and the professional club, and it turns out that Articles 16, 18 and 22 are in collegiate, so I think this text should be adjusted a little bit, i.e. clarifying. I believe that the text of Article 21 should be rewritten in accordance with Article 17, because, for example, the Basketball Shareholders' Society is one-of-a-kind, so there is no need to add "sports" in the sense of the Sports Basketball Share Company. A few words about professional sports business. Of course, there is a need to raise the level of professional training of sports professionals. However, it is doubtful whether the provisions relating to this problem can be implemented in practice especially when it comes to recreation, low - or low - ranking clubs, especially in small areas with very limited financial resources. I'm afraid most of these clubs will be shut down because they simply cannot finance the education of their coaches, and often in these environments these clubs are the only places where young people are organised. Even a transitional period of 5 years does not help much because the situation will certainly not change in such environments in five years. So it would just delay the inevitable. I believe that, taking into account these situations, the provisions of the law and more education should be tempered by the law and limited to the first-class clubs. If we consider that the higher coaching school lasts 5 semesters each of which stands between 4 and 6 thousand kunas depending on sport, and that more than 70% of clubs do not have coaches with adequate professional training, therefore, it is about 5 to 6 thousand clubs, we come up with dizzy figures from 100 to 185 million kuna necessary for their education. I wonder if the resulting effects would justify this kind of means. I have to admit, I doubt that. That is why I think it is necessary to leave the possibility of schooling through the Croatian Olympic Academy, and that national alliances determine the level of professional training in the licensing of coaches, especially those who run the highest level of competition, while taking into account the state of play in their sport as well as its specificities. On the other hand, qualified staff should work with children. Still, I think the worst option would be if there was no one to work with. A few words about national sports awards. There is again discrimination between sportsmen and athletes, non-Olympic sports compared to the Olympics. I think sports achievement should be evened out because competition at every world championship is adequate for the Olympic Games. The only difference in publicity that has the Olympic Games is the world championships of some Olympic sports compared to other Olympic and non-Olympic sports. If this means expanding competition to a large number of athletes or teams, it means that we have been successful for every praise, and the narrowing of competition can be carried out by bringing down first place only, by reducing the amount of prizes, giving priority to those with a higher achievement or higher number of medals and so on, but certainly not by excluding neo-Olympic sports from competition. Two, three words about funding sports. I believe that the law should certainly include the minimum percentages of the amount of separation both from the state budget and local budget, in order to avoid the current situation at the state level, i.e. today's separation at the same level as in 1999, although the budget is about 2.2 times higher today. So 220 percent higher than then. And two, three words about the health care of athletes. I have two comments here on Article 74. In paragraph 1, it is said that the period of validity of a general health certificate is 6 months. I believe that this period should determine each national alliance together in accordance with its own, or international rules for that sport because they are not at the same risk of injury or body load, such as boxer, football player, bowler, fisherman or chess player. It is illogically further in paragraph 2 that the Ministry of Health determines the list of authorised doctors who, for example, will carry out these tasks in Rijeka since they do not bear the costs of the examination. If we know that there are about 4000 registered athletes in Rijeka and we multiply that by 2 reviews per year, each of which is 100 kuna, it turns out to be an 800 thousand kuna figure. I believe that for this activity is a large amount and that a public tender should be called for, that is, the last sentence of this paragraph in the present proposal to be deleted. I hope you will appreciate these remarks and suggestions when making the final text of the Law and therefore the SDP Club will support this bill in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57940	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Happy Ferenchuck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57941	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of the debate on the proposal for a sport law on behalf of the HNS Club, I would like to point out that we support the intention of making new legislation in sport. Because it is undeniable that sport for Croatia is extremely important. That athletes who, in the most difficult moments of this country, gave a voice about Croatia and presented it in an exceptional way in the world. And not only for these reasons, sportsmen and athletes in Croatia certainly deserve to have high-quality relationships and have the state pay much more attention to them than it has so far. Since the beginning of the current government's mandate, when the projects and tasks ahead were highlighted, we have often heard the announcement of major and significant changes in sports, new strategies, its development, the adoption of this Law that will finally regulate this area and increase the funding for sport. The law is ahead of us, we are now hoping and looking forward to increasing the budget for sports and athletes. This law has been waiting for more than six years. The last government didn't exactly celebrate by passing the law. Namely, the first reading was in front of this high house. There's a lot in this bill. The profession is certainly not guilty, it is the policy to wait so long, but the profession or politics together are guilty of going wrong after six years of work, pain and effort. In fact, I consider such a scientific method that we should first adopt a national programme and a national strategy on sport from which the bill would then come out. We're doing it a little bit backwards now. The law will come up with a national strategy on sports, which is certainly not good. It's also not good to make bomb statements like that. I quote, "This law is the best thing that could have happened to our sport" or "It's the biggest step towards sports in the last few decades". We don't need that, because the best thing that's happened to Croatian sports in the last few decades is certainly the magnificent successes of athletes and athletes, their numerous medals and great results at the European and world championships. I remind you of the last Winter Olympics 3 medals, the Summer Olympics 5 medals, don't forget that most European countries have a lot more registered athletes in certain sports than we have residents. Don't forget that we're only 0.3% out of the sports budget, that all neighbouring countries stand out a few times as much for sport. So this is what I have to say is amazing, given the number of people and the resources we invest in sports. The HNS Club welcomes the commitment to adopt a new, more modern and more quality Sport Act, i.e. to try in a much more life-long way to regulate relations in this extremely important segment of human activity. It is certain that there are many good things in this Law, the minister spoke of them, I will not speak of them, I will speak of those that I think are not good or can improve. So this is the first reading, I'm going to suggest a lot of things, I hope the legislator adopts them in the second reading. As far as the text of the law itself is concerned, it is clear that experts and groups of experts have been working on individual segments for themselves and the legislator should have made a little more effort to bring these segments that have been proposed to a single language and meaningful whole. You can see exactly who was working which segment of the law. The preamble of this Law highlights the importance of sports and the importance of school sports societies. I support this initiative, and I agree that school sports societies are extremely important because it's the base from which we can recruit athletes. Sport is extremely important for children and young people, but when we read the text of this Law, we see that more than half of this text refers to the regulation of relationships in professional clubs which is certainly not good. Furthermore, in the assessment of the situation, the legislator determines the holders of sport development in units of local and regional (regional) self-government. It's already happened in this High House that we're constantly transferring liabilities to local self-government and no funds. Articles 44 and 45 clearly states that school sports companies will be financed by the state and local administration, but in the 2006 budget and budget projections there is no such money. So are we gonna have another dead letter on the paper? With that being corrected in the new budget, I agree, but we knew that we were preparing this law, we had to anticipate these funds. I hope to see this House finally come up with a proposal to decentralisation funds to local self-government units. There may also be reasons, so I will ask to be explained why it is mandatory to transform into a sports society only for football and basketball, why not for some other sports that are also professional? I would like to know what criteria will be led by auditors who will have the authority under the provisions of Article 19 of the law to carry out a review of the sports club, given that the clubs are required within 3 months of the delivery of the registration solution to the register to carry out the audit? In the last paragraph of Article 6 of that same Article, it is prescribed that failure to comply with the obligations set out in paragraph 5 shall result in a loss of competition rights in... Seasons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We can't agree with such a provision, we can't ban anyone from playing sports, but we have the right to punish him and transfer him to a lower level of competition, it's known and it's legally justified. That's how all modern countries of Italy, France, Germany do, so let's bow down to it, not to ban someone from playing sports. A great deal of media attention when the law was presented was also devoted to the proposal to set up a National Sports Council. I've been given a few reasons that this National Sports Council will be something similar to the National Science Council in the same ministry which I certainly welcome, and if that National Sports Council is going to try to get as much funding out of this Ministry of Sports as possible, then I support it. However, by reading the law of the National Sports Council legislator's wish, he will be the most professional body to take care of the development and quality of the entire sport in the Republic of Croatia and to make decisions on all issues relevant to sport. Where is the sport, where are the athletes, where is the Croatian Olympic Committee? Why does politics want to be forced into this segment of life? I think we should leave sport to athletes, some national alliances and edit their competition system and some national alliances run sport policy, and our proposal is that the envisaged powers of the National Sports Council be reduced to advisory frameworks, and that the ministry, together with the Croatian Olympic Committee, have the option of deciding and having the position to have and deserve in sport. Part of the law speaks of professional clubs and is very detailedly elaborated so it can be assumed that the promoter has particularly carefully processed the area. Article 36 of the Bill of Law when listing the content of the elaborates, which begins the process of transforming the sports club into... the company states, among other things, that a list of members of the sports club as well as the contractual values of competitors with which the sports club has a contract must be indicated. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's where you ask a lot of questions. What if a single football or basketball club that is obliged to reshape if they have 50% of professional athletes do not have signed contracts with more than 50% of licensed athletes in senior competition? What if the club doesn't have signed contracts with athletes competitors? What if... agencies? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who are the members of the sports club anyway? So we are afraid that such vague and vague provisions leave the possibility of many manipulations that we have witnessed today especially in these professional clubs, the possibility of different solutions in the same levels of competition which is unacceptable. Without entering the nomotechnical arrangement of the whole part of the law, we believe that such flexible provisions are a good solution, i.e. we believe that the legislator should make an effort to find different solutions to mandatory recasting. We suggest that by the next reading, the ministry sets clear and firm criteria that cannot be manipulated. It also sets out in Article 32 of the Law that persons cannot be members of the Board or of the Supervisory Board of the Sports Share Society. In the November 2005 proposal, there is a concern that sports managers cannot be controlled or owned by a sports stock company. In this proposal we got, there's no such thing. I'm asking why? Well, the manager who sells players can't be on the board of the club or his own club, it needs to be back in the course of the bill. Also in that proposal for a November 2005 law was a proposal for athletes to win Olympic medals, world championships to receive pensions, and this was kicked out of the bill. I'm asking why? Now there is a very interesting proposal that the state can transfer its claims to sports clubs that are mandatory... to local self-government units. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The entry of the state itself as the majority owner of individual clubs since the state was giving funds and no one controlled them and since the state is the greatest believer we can comment on as a kind, as one prominent former athlete recently said and the current journalist, as sports ethics. But I think at this point it's better because it's still state money. However, we must avoid the situation that competitions in the same leagues meet clubs that are private property and ownership of local communities or states. Well, they won't, they'll all go bankrupt, they'll all want the city of Zagreb to own them, not be private. Therefore, it is necessary to put into a solution to this law to determine a transitional period of time during which these local communities must sell clubs further. Another very important fact. We talked about money, how important money is because in sports you have to have three things, you have to have a athlete, you have to have a coach and you have to have logistics. We're here to secure funds so sport can be maintained. The text of November proposed the return of tax exemptions to sport or the possibility of reducing the tax base of the tax base by 50% of the amount of nominal value... in sports... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Guys. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But with this bill of law, that provision has been expelled from the text. We do not understand why, that is, the opportunity to warn the long-term problem of not recognising tax relief to those who have both the desire and the will and the ability to confirm sports through helping sports associations or clubs. It is the base on which the entire system of sports is built and would be extremely useful to consider and include in the law a provision on tax relief for them. Since the whole segment is in a very difficult financial state if this issue will be resolved by amendments to existing tax rules, it would be acceptable for us to leave out these provisions in this text of the law. But if we don't think about it, we are warning this fact and we are asking that such solutions be proposed by this bill or that the Ministry of Finance, by the second reading of this law, propose changes to the tax laws in this regard. By reading further the text of the bill, we come up with an extremely interesting proposal where I would like the legislator to explain its meaning to us. In particular, Article 58 provides that a natural person may independently carry out sports activities by participating in sports competitions, sports preparation, recreation and training unless he/she is in a working relationship but says that the person who performs his/her sport recreation activities can also perform this activity for catering and tourism activities. The question of legality or constitutionality of such a proposed provision is raised. In our opinion, it is completely discriminatory against all persons who carry out their activities except those who are engaged in catering and tourism. In addition, Articles 61 and 62 where it is said that the programming and implementation of extracurricular sports activities can only be carried out by persons who have the appropriate training equipment at the level of a university study. So, I agree that for the youngest, we have to give the best coaches the most educated, but we just don't. If you have a ski club in Gospić, you won't find a body culture professor there who can lead those children. Let there be some kind of leader. So I agree that they have a priority if they exist and not that they only have to do it. It is also good that professional jobs have been defined in this sport but I think that much more attention must be given to how and how to control this situation in sport. We welcome the principle of commitment to preserve sports buildings or the obligation to make a network of sports buildings at all levels and to ban re-use. We also welcome the decision of the Ministry of Science to build more than twenty school sports halls in the next period. Without it, there's no sport. We also commend the intention of better regulation of the status of athletes with disabilities. We support the Croatian Olympic Committee, Croatian Paralympic Committee, Croatian... It's certainly good, it's a world trend in the organisation of sports activities and let's support these athletes and people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We also welcome the establishment of a Croatian anti-doping agency in sport. It's one monster we have to drive out of sports and out of life. Also, there's a white woman out of the law. I think such an object should be returned. There's something going on here, and I hope that with these resources that are days, they can be completed. And in the end, I just want to say that the law itself does not solve anything. The legislator himself points out that there is no national sport programme, that the sport system itself is not qualitatively defined and that the role of the state in many segments is not defined. Therefore, we must advocate greater allocation of funds to sport. Let me tell you, the Croatian budget of HOO is 100 million kuna, and for culture, we're giving out 900 million kuna. The results that are invested in sports are much higher than they are invested in. I am not advocating clearly that the cultural resources are reduced, not at all, but for sport, we need to increase the detachment. We support the proposal to make legislation, but we ask that the second reading be included in the remarks that we have highlighted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57942	Thank you. We have a correction to Mrs. Maria Byte's incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57943	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. With one part of the presentation of Mr Ferenček's respected representative, I can agree but I must correct his incorrect claim that there is no money in the 2006 budget for school sport and that this obligation has been transferred exclusively to local self-government units. In 2005 the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports for School Sport and their society singled out 10 million kunas in 2006 and 25% more, which means 12 million and 500 thousand kunas for school sports and society, and also additionally gave half a million kuna for beginners in sports and youth related to the system of school sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57944	Thank you very much. It's the HSS Club and Mr. Representative Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57945	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues! If a question were asked in the Croatian public whether the Croatian nation is sports and how sporty then the answer would be if it were measured by the results our athletes achieve in international competitions were very positive. It would read, "Yes, Croatia is one of the most sports nations and countries in the world" because by the number of inhabitants it gets so many medals, it is so significantly elevated almost in all sports that the pedestal of sports nations simply belongs to Croatia. If on the other hand it was measured how much we are a sports nation and measured by some statistical indicators that say that only 10 percent of our citizens are engaged in sports, then that feeling of the sports nation would go a little wrong. Or he would lead us into the seriousness of what we're discussing here today. Namely, the alarm bell in sport looks at both the eyes of sportsmen and the eyes of athletes and the eyes of the public long ago. It warns. Not good results or exceptional results can be a shadow or distract us from the seriousness of the situation in which we are. That's why the HSS Club was very pleased to wait for the proposal for a law on sports. It is precisely that certain anomalies, certain conditions that are not in the taste of athletes or sports workers or citizens at all, are in some way, as the law itself says they are reshaping. To get a certain redesign at all levels. But also to very clearly define that thin line that needs to be viewed differently by two types of sports activities. The professional one and the amateur one. That it is not a dam that will share but a dam that will clearly leave opportunities for participation of 10% of citizens who are active in sports today to be at the level of other countries, 20, 25 and more tomorrow. And just this amateur sport or sport that a lot of people participate in, mass sports are sports that keep one nation healthy and active and sporty. And that is why a law is necessary to demystify the situation but to use the correct, accurate and understandable names and denominators for individual events in Croatian sport. First of all, I will say very clearly and very openly what is the view of professional sports in the Republic of Croatia? A picture of the situation and, in some ways, a proposal to measure and see how to fix it. It is also unacceptable especially in football and partly less in basketball. In professional clubs, we have a condition today that we have over-indebted structures, sports structures, football, basketball clubs. We have managers who own these players, who are not so powerless and not so burdened with debt, but on the contrary. They're very rich, they're very powerful, and they're almost not worried about the worrying state of clubs. Why? Well, because, of course, they don't care about them. When it comes to caring for these facilities or cost-recovery, it either belongs to the state or local self-government. They can easily sell their players what they do so for one player to make sure you don't get angry with the minister almost 30% of the debt that you've stated that he owes you all together. 700 million kuna. Is such a situation understandable and can we tolerate such a situation if we want to be serious, serious and responsible to change such a situation in professional sport? Of course we can't. And that is why we will absolutely welcome the possibility of reshuffle in those clubs that are now formally bankrupt but we are not leading them into bankruptcy because bankruptcy would bring nothing. It wouldn't bring anything, just worse. And most people do. If there are 30% of them, as the minister said, it's quite a solid figure. I'm afraid there aren't that many. But we have to, we have to make it very clear that we're playing these new stock sports clubs. What are they, what is their property? What do they answer for? And what is the role of local self-government, cities and municipalities and their relationship, in particular, with regard to financing, in particular with regard to the relationship that will take place. Because on condition that we have a zero today, and that everything's been remedied, we need to know the exact direction in which we need to move so that we don't come back here for a year where we are today. That is why changes are necessary not only in the legislation that can do so and which I believe has put a solid path to movement and change in the way of thinking about sport is also necessary. It is necessary in sport to leave athletes and sports workers, honest managers, those who want to live with sport but not those who live exclusively in a way that burdens sport without being personally rich. They don't belong in sports. Who wants to deal with big business Croatia is not such a big country that the business would be sought exclusively in the context of sports professionalism in Croatia. That line must definitely exist. Because that border was actually that border when I was talking about the amateur and professional sport that's moving in that case. Amateur sport, the sport in which to invest the most, give the most and which by nature things are not visible is difficult to characterize as visible they are actually the source of these superior results. Without the school structure of sports activities and upgrades that follow at all levels to higher education, monitoring the highest quality, monitoring those that are different from others, their, their scholarships, investments in them rather than leaving any street managers to deal with our most gifted athletes. It gives hope that relations in sport can change. It gives hope that those who by nature are the most gifted, and are located in a small environment and do not have the possibility of funding from their family or from the rope community that they will not remain unrecognizable. It's that the structure of the system will put them into operation. We have so far had results, but whether these results are part of a designed strategy of action in sport or whether they are the results of inspired individuals, their trainers and a narrow environment. I think in most cases, the result is about the extremely talented, the extremely collected and narrow environments that have given everything and their property and their will to create a good result. Therefore, our mission in HSS is to create a system, a system of values in sport that will be seen from the earliest school days that will have its own ambition clearly, about its own quality, but a system of support that society will establish at all levels and thus open a natural competition that will result in the rise of 10% to 25%, continuing to achieve great results in international and domestic competitions, but also creating what is most important to a healthy nation. There's no healthy nation that doesn't invest in sports. Of course, those exclusions of 0.3% of gross social product are insufficient. They are insufficient to cover existing ambitions and maintain the existing level we have today in sport. So tomorrow, when the new state budget comes, we have to deal with it just through this clear and reasoned debate that it must rise to at least 0.6%. At least 0.6%, because this is the only argument that we will be able to defend the assumptions of strengthening the amateur attitude towards sport, this return of professional sport to normal frameworks, not to be conducted in the so-called bankruptcy section. You know, when you look at and compare Croatian sport and the Croatian economy infrastructure is almost the same. Bad, bad, with sport still achieving results we can be proud of. The economy doesn't have that swing. It cannot produce final results without a huge and strong developed integrated system. But neither will our sport ever produce exceptional results unless we continue to invest in it. But investment in building a pyramid of sports evaluation systems in Croatia. My colleague Ferencak is saying I'm going to refer to him a little bit and say that politicians are no place in sports. I would say in sports it is a place for all those who think that they can share their free time without their own interest to dedicate to sport, dedicate their contribution to the community and give their contribution to it and that is why I disagree with it. I also think it belongs to him in sports if that part works well within the ski alliance, as is the place for all who want to contribute. However, the place and role of politicians should be distinguished in one way or another. You need to distinguish the place and role in one way or another. Things aren't one-of-a-kind. I did not say that in Croatian sport all those who do management work are bad and unfair. I said there are those who don't do their jobs the way they're supposed to do it, and that leaves that shadow of huge money, of a big trade, of a lot of money. Maybe that's not the case, but when you don't have clear indicators, when you don't have a transparently defined job in which to buy, how to sell players, then the public has the right to speculate. And this law is now in place to avoid speculation, to help develop Croatian sport and I expect Mr. Ministers until the second reading to very clearly position certain things. I would especially like to appeal again to that activity about sports sports associations and clubs, that just about all the freshness of the new law be passed on to that first step that depends on whether that first step will bear fruit in that upper one or not. Therefore, to position more clearly what is with clubs within sports alliances. How are we going to get clubs that are being funded today that we've all come together on the basis that we have to pay the judge out of our pocket because our account is blocked, that the van from our friends has to be a means of transport, and at the same time when you go out on the street and you see a hundred kids waiting to drive to a football game or handball game coming to you to cry. And they're working against the law. Therefore, it is not good not to create conditions for those children who want to be part of the sports nation to become them. Therefore, the law must primarily go towards the youngest and those who today have opportunities to transfer sports values to themselves first and afterwards to society in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57946	Thank you very much. We have two corrections. First is Mr. Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57947	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I am correcting the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague, Markov, regarding the managers that we do not have clear indicators. For certain managers, we have very clear indicators. They got rich and they brought the clubs to bankruptcy, and it takes five years for them to be able to do these jobs in the first place, and then they'd introduce order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57948	Correction, Mr. Ferenchak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57949	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm correcting Mr. Markov's incorrect quote where he said I said politicians couldn't be in sports. I said quote, read from mine. Why is politics pushing and pushing over athletes again? In the sense that it is not a colleague of Markov, I would like to tell you in the sense that politics has no right to interfere with the system and the organisation of sports competitions. It's strictly the work of sports alliances and no one else. This was when there were speeches about the National Sports Council and I alluded to the National Sports Council being the ministry's advisory body, to the ministries doing their job together with the Croatian Olympic Committee, and every man of good faith who understands sports and wants to help sports is a place in sport especially amateur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57950	Thank you. Mr. Dragan Primorac called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57951	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I think that the debate so far has actually shown how clear it has been for everyone that it has actually been the last minute for Croatian sport and I am extremely happy with the debate because it has shown the key moments that there is a consensus as it exists in the sports community, so there is consensus in the Parliament, and of course there are some things that need to be done. Let me tell you a few key moments. Before that, I would like to welcome my associates, assistant Drazen Harasin, just to let you know that these are people who have worked very hard, Mrs. Sara Butorac and Siniš Petrovic, a professor from the Faculty of Law who was, in fact, the author of this law on trade law and recasting. The key moments are, I'll compare with the education system, because you know that the education system now ends the biggest changes in all three segments, basic, middle and high education. And that question about the National Sports Council. It is precisely the intensity of both the European Union and all countries to free the system of policy. What does that mean? This means that the Bologna Process, the science reform we are carrying out, would never have been experienced if there was no body selected and proposed by the academic community, which is outside the ministry's authority, which was appointed by the Croatian Parliament. It is the same situation with the National Sports Council and it still has an absolute role to propose, encourages the adoption of measures to improve sport and acts as such as an advisory body and plays a key role, not involving any other body in the Republic of Croatia. But the honourable parliamentary representatives allow me to say that the National Council for Higher Education and Science The Bologna Process today would not be a reality in Croatia, nor could the reform of science be launched. And that's very important. And now, of course, if you ask each other a question. Why doesn't the Croatian government go with the national strategy for sport today? So also why is the Croatian Government and the entire academic community and science when it has the National Council for Science and when it has a broader consensus of the Croatian scientific community the text with this proposal goes to the National Council as the highest body to bless it and ultimately what will be outside of politics. And that's the point of the National Sports Council. And it doesn't occur to anyone that he has any other role to play. Here are the authors of the law. I also want to specify a few key elements. The absolute trend that exists today with regard to the development of sports and the transformation that part of clubs entering the transformation phase can absolutely survive in one way, and this is based on positive business. Not as much as an association of citizens. That's why the tendency and intensity of all the countries that we've analyzed, and we've done our best, were my associates in Spain who have shown the best model that local self-government as the owner of future clubs has one big responsibility, and that responsibility or the club will do positive business, and we've given it a chance to go from zero, or local self-government will have responsibility so they'll say we're not able and able to run a club. But it never is, and it's not too late then to make a bankruptcy, or sell. But we gave it a chance. But let me, I spent a number of years abroad, the one who owns it, he knows what responsibility is. When you're not the owner, then you wash your hands and expect the state to solve all your issues. It is certainly not the intensity of those who want to run Croatian sport, but not those who pass this law. I'd also like to mention a few key moments. At this point, sports alliances have the opportunity to propose members and participate in the selection of boards and supervisory committees. But it doesn't work. That's why it was the intensity of this law to regulate it. It's like the intensity of your discussions that we listen very carefully, which is a matter of managers. Well, of course we won't allow any more of the situations we've had so far. But we want to hear what's happening on the ground, because you can't manager into the system of the entire alliance and head of the alliance be manager, or manager be management bodies and control the entire system where it's directly in conflict of interest. That's impossible and we won't let that happen. But we asked, opinions were divided. I would also like to say that the consensus of the entire sports community is these 50% that the club of professionals, and that we also accepted the Olympic Committee, of course it's the subject of conversation, but it's a consensus. I'm here to say it's the sports community that gave us as a suggestion. And the question that is extremely important, I would say is the question of investment in sport. And thank you very much for mentioning "The White Hair." 'Cause after all these years, the white-haired finally blossomed. 100 million kuna is secured for "Bellasica" and we are going at this moment to build halls, swimming pools, ski resorts and snowing systems. And that is one of the priorities of this Croatian government. And if in the next two years we have "Belalasica" which will be a real Olympic Croatian centre, not a declarative Olympic centre. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57952	Thank you very much. The time of 15 minutes of the HDZ club will be shared by Mr. Perica Bukic and Franjo Arabovic. Here's a feather.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57953	Honorable Vice President, Honored Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Let me start by saying a few words about the importance and necessity of passing one of these laws, actually the necessity and debate of sports at all in this House. And right at first, I must express my satisfaction that here I see that the consensus is present by all exhibitors, by all clubs, about the importance of sport and about the importance of increasing investment in sport. I want once again because of all of us, because of the public, because of sports and athletes, of course, because of young people, to point out that sport is too big and too important for anyone to be uninterested. I mean, in the sense that we're just fans in that story, so only when they're so-called. our clubs in the game or only when national selections make us immeasurably sensitive, happy but sad, depending on the result achieved at the sports resort. I am convinced that just the fact that sports, competition, exercise or all kinds of sports activities from kindergartens through school sports companies and student sports, to professional sports clubs are not and must not be any other class to say special and special activity that only spends budget money. Otherwise, on the contrary, this law should change it. It should come to the only possible and acceptable social form, and it is called systematic settlement of the role of the place, development and progress of the entire sport. Without any doubt, each of us could mention a number of dissatisfactions in the field of sports that we are witnessing and which were for the greatest reason of need, I would even say the necessity of passing such a law. I will only mention some reasons and point out the proposals that this law offers, the solutions that the law offers. I'll start with the terms, better say on the conditions in which young people engage in sports activities. I personally hold that it is one of our most important tasks in every conversation in the future of sports. It is no secret that the lack of sports buildings in the Republic of Croatia, given the needs of the population to regularly engage in one of the sports activities in relation to the usual standards in the countries of Central and Western Europe, is one of the biggest problems, since all current research has shown that in this respect we meet only 30% of real needs in the Republic of Croatia. What to talk about about any meaningful sports development if we are not ready to regulate that it is simply impossible to do, to open up more and one school educational institution in Croatia that does not belong to the sports hall. We are ladies and gentlemen of the 21st century. Tomorrow we are, not to say that we already have, part of the European family, and we are talking about something called closed swimming ground in certain environments as a world miracle. Further, much and justifiable dissatisfaction with school and university sports. In this proposal, the law defines the parts that speak of the need for the establishment of school and student sports societies and their associations in the Croatian school sports alliance. It's about another dimension in sports that doesn't have to be explained much. School sports competitions in most young people may have left the most impressive sports moments in winnings, defeats, cheerleading, learning to belong to the team. I also point out and welcome the provision of the law that says that school sports companies, i.e. student sports associations, use the premises of schools for their activities and have a priority in using them in relation to external users. We know what's been going on so far. Also inadequate and inadequate quality, i.e. the expertise and education of sports workers. Questions to which it has been difficult to give a quality answer so far are who and under what conditions can carry out professional activities in sport. Disrespecting these legal provisions on who can carry out the numbered professional tasks would be devastating if I didn't say fatally for sport. In doing so, I will especially mention young people, actually the youngest ones because they are very often the test rabbits I would say in various sports clubs where they practice and seek confirmation and personal affirmation of the very people who do not meet most of the professional requirements. By respecting, or better to say, the implementation of this law should stop. The funding system or perhaps more truthfully use some other expressions for what we have today when it comes to certain sports activities. One reason why the potential is insufficient is that more than 7,000 active sports clubs with nearly 300 thousand athletes are also the problem with the negative business of sports clubs. In this regard, it is necessary to highlight what has so far been the most prominent topic of all public and less public sport talks, and which is why most of it is pending this law. The definition of what sports clubs are, which are sports professional clubs, sports clubs and stock companies, their establishment, financing, their core capital, their obligation as well as the process of reshaping sports clubs, associations to sports stock companies and the consequences of not implementing mandatory reshaping. This proposal for a law on sport in this sense is a turn, a step leading to the beginning of my presentation. As one of the most important social activities, sport has been arranged systematically, transparently and grayly available. I purposely mention at the end the reason why this law is just necessary and alarming should be done. It is also a matter of the current inadequate and insufficient regulation of all the obligations of sports clubs and national sports alliances in the case of doping and of all persons performing doping control as well as the obligations of measures and consequences when establishing the taking of unauthorized funds. In this light, I would particularly like to emphasise my support for the establishment of a Croatian anti-doping agency. I must especially stress this as a man who for years was a top athlete and I know all the efforts, but also the challenges athletes know and unfortunately are exposed when taking unauthorized and for the health of dangerous stimulants. Also, the attitude towards exercise and recreation of citizens in general and the attitude towards participation in sports of persons with developmental difficulties and persons with disabilities fall into dissatisfactions that should not be specifically explained and who have rightly taken one of the most important places in this law. I am also very pleased to support the adoption of a national sport programme, which brings the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia with defined development objectives for a period of at least 8 years, and the objectives and tasks are undeniable. A long-term sport development policy in the Republic of Croatia programme, not controversial cases of creating conditions for achieving the top results of Croatian athletes in international competitions and programmes, not by chance, but by meeting the conditions for recreational sports performance in order to improve the protection of the health of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And what I think is the most important part of this law is the establishment of a national sports council, the highest professional body to care for the development and quality of the entire sport in the Republic of Croatia. The role of this council must be visible tomorrow, welcome and in Croatian sport recognised. I am simply convinced that there is no serious state policy in which systematic quality development of sports and all kinds of sports activities are not of particular national interest, which are not of national importance. I know countries as surely most of you, in which sport is a fully equal strategy in the development of national security, and I don't need to specifically mention healthy development, raising young people, reducing the cost of treatment by increasing the number of those who are engaged in sports where it could be shown and proving that money from the budget is allocated to sport is repeatedly returned. I won't even mention such a painful subject as doping and fighting sports against alcohol, smoking and especially drugs. I also don't think there's any need to talk about our prides, about the nation's enthusiasm for the success of our individuals' national selections in major competitions as they perform under the national flag, and while their success has almost half the world listening to the Croatian anthem or to say that in this unwanted comparison of the importance of some activities for this country Croatian sport and its representatives have a wide open door in all the cantons of the world, where no one has ever heard of our country and of us, but is wearing a Croatian gambling uniform. Ladies and gentlemen, speaking of this importance, the Olympic movement in the world has in its ranks more members than the United Nations, and I'm not sure that its present and influence is not greater, and that influence that we often, very much who we have been participating politics, and it is about representing and defending our country's reputation, and athletes do it, ladies and gentlemen, do almost their whole lives. Regardless of the conditions and whatever it may seem to some, they would do so tomorrow because never think of any tangible conditions to compensate for the joy of athletes who perform and win medals for their country. With this law, we make the number that participates in the sports family in Croatia in all kinds and shapes as high as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57954	At 11.05, it's past 10 minutes' notice time. 39 MPs and 7 clubs reported. It shows, the data shows what interest is in the Croatian Parliament for the proposal of this law. Here you go, Mr. Arabovich.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57955	I would like to thank Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, and I would like to welcome Mr. Minister Dragan Primorac with his associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. We all talked today about that magic number 6, six numbers in 2006. Great. I'm glad that after six years of waiting we can go public, I can say from this pay phone that we have a proposal for the Sport Act in front of us. For me, and for all of us in the Croatian Democratic Community club, it is absolutely clear that sport as an activity is multidimensional. What do I mean by that? I want to say that sport, that sport covers the education sector, the health sector, the social category sector, it also has its own economic dimension if it is about tourism, the production of sports equipment, the production of sports devices and the means of sport. Sport today is a subject of science and scientific research, serving in promoting cultural and artistic values. They're actually a systematic part of sport. And finally, sport is a powerful marketing tool. All of this I've cited suggests that sport has one planetary, global significance. As I said at the outset that this proposal for 6 years has been run around various offices, assemblies and that all national sports alliances, the Alliance of Persons, the Faculty of Kinesis, the Faculty of Law in Zagreb, led by Mr Petrovic and the normal Croatian Olympic Committee, we former and current Croatian top athletes and those in charge. We at the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community consider one of the most important items that the Law provides for the development of a national programme for sport development. It is certainly a large strategic document that will bring this House of the High to the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The document defines the development of sport in the next 8 years. Two basic directions of this programme should be highlighted. These are the creation of conditions for making as many citizens of the Republic of Croatia involved in sport as possible. Secondly, creating conditions for our athletes to win as many medals as possible in major international competitions. The first course contributes to the quality of life of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and the second direction is very important for the promotion of our beautiful country. We also welcome the establishment of a national sports council. It is commendable that the Law offers a model of overindebted sports clubs. It establishes effective supervision of the operation of all sports clubs in the Republic of Croatia, and when it comes to children in sport this Law provides them, I would say, the most. Children are given priority in the law in using the school space so that they can engage in sports activities. Unfortunately, we're getting... It's not like that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Croatian School Sports Federation is founded, the highest roof body of children's sports in our country. And if we're talking about sports buildings, there's a ban on suspending the re-use of sports buildings and the area intended for sports buildings. The information system in sport is being introduced. It should be pointed out that we at the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community welcome the opening of the possibility of adopting another Law on Sports, which is the Law on Inspection in Sports. And finally, I apologize, Mr. Vice President. And finally, since it is the law in the first reading of the opinion that this debate will also contribute to the quality of the legal solutions, but also create a positive atmosphere both in the assembly and throughout our beautiful ones. To further affirm the value of Croatian sport, as well as Croatian sport, it provides a place in the society it belongs to. In this sense, the Croatian Democratic Community club absolutely supports this Bill proposal, considering it as a foothold for future systematic development of sport and promoting the positive values it represents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57956	Thank you. And especially since you've been able to say all this within 15 minutes. On behalf of the HSP Club, Mr. Representative Pejo Trčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57957	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with his associates, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The Croatian party's club supports the adoption of the Law on Sports in order to significantly improve both competition sport and sports recreation in the Republic of Croatia. We also support the establishment of a National Sports Council as the highest expert body to take care of the development and quality of the entire sport in the Republic of Croatia. In particular, we also support the development of sports of children and youth, i.e. the proposal of this Law is also governed by the way in which sports are financed, both in clubs and in alliances, and the financing of sports in schools. Therefore, this Bill of Law regulates, i.e. this Law will regulate the way of funding and provides places for sport and youth, both in schools and beyond. Therefore, the question of sportsman status in the education system is resolved as well as during the service of the military term of athletes professionals, although I believe that this Law does not need to be regulated in particular. Because serving a military deadline for athletes is already arranged for me to think quality and defense laws. It is good that this Law also determines professional persons in sport as a sports coach, persons who are trained to work in sports as sports judges and other persons. The provisions of this Act also prescribe conditions that must be met by persons performing professional activities in sport, and for sports judges and prohibitions of participation in congregations and the executive body of sports clubs and sports associations. According to the proposal of this Law, there is namely one doubt that, as I have suggested, I have taken for example this Spanish example of reshaping sports clubs into sporting stock companies in most clubs as in football and basketball, and on the other hand, this proposal also gives the possibility that sports clubs form as associations of citizens. Which, in our opinion, can lead clubs as stock companies into an unfair situation as regards the obligation to pay taxes and other obligations towards the state and alliances, and sports clubs as citizens' associations put a little more favourable position. Because according to this bill and under the Association Act, sports clubs as citizens' associations can be exempt from certain tax obligations, and all together would have the same rights. And professional clubs like sports stock companies and clubs as an association of citizens. The proposer prescribed this proposal by law that sports clubs, competition associations may be delayed, i.e. to postpone the payment of claims by the Republic of Croatia and legal persons in the predominantly state-owned or in which the state has a majority stake, i.e. a share package, in order to support those sports clubs, i.e. sports associations for competitions which do not have professional status, and also provide for the possibility of delaying public fees. We don't mind, but gentlemen, the question is, who is responsible for these debts? Who will bear responsibility and settle down after these debts? It is unacceptable for this bill to be divided so drastically, and in our opinion, professional clubs from amateur clubs should not, because according to this bill, so to speak, be back even in the Middle Ages. In fact, this bill is not favourable for amateur clubs in terms of funding and in terms of status, because this bill puts amateur clubs and amateur sports in a fully subordinated position. In the club of Croatian parties, we hold that there should be, namely, a doubt that the non-governmental national sports association in which national sports alliances are joined could be arranged differently, i.e. Today's Croatian Olympic Committee. We believe that the Croatian Olympic Committee should encourage, promote sport in the Republic of Croatia both in the Republic of Croatia and in the world, but it should certainly consider whether the Croatian Olympic Committee should be as a roof sports organisation now because we believe that this is not a quality solution for all Croatian sports alliances on the organisation and financing. In our opinion, it would be better to form the Croatian Association of Sports as some confederate of an alliance in which individual sports alliances would be freely joined, and so the Croatian Olympic Committee would be in the league and in the rank of other Croatian sports alliances. So to clarify, our proposal is that the Croatian Olympic Committee should not be like a roof sports organisation so far, but should be in that let's call it the Croatian Association of Sports Alliances, it would be a short time to call it HSSS. This bill does not specify exactly the ownership of sports buildings, or we all know what the problems on the ground are at the moment, i.e. the unresolved property-legal relations to sports buildings. This bill should also regulate the planning, maintenance, use, management and restoration of sports buildings, and establish the powers of the Ministry of Environment and other ministries in charge of sports buildings, thus establishing the authorities of the owners of these sports buildings, and of course the clubs which are now the owners of sports buildings, and also as the minister also said to the local self-government, which is at this point the owner of a lot of sports buildings. Finally, on behalf of the Croatian party club, the rights can also be said that this bill should provide even better and better quality provisions for both clubs and athletes, i.e. legal and natural persons, as well as for all responsible persons in charge of sports in the Republic of Croatia. We believe that one such law is needed by the sport of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Party's club of rights agrees that this bill goes to another reading, and we will give our comments and suggestions, or our Croatian Party club will give its rights in another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57958	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57959	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. The Parliament certainly has a strong sports lobby, here is Arapović, Filipović, Mr. Cervar, Perman, Perica Bukić, Ferenčak is not there, Mr. Letica while he was leading the tennis alliance, Perusko etc., meaning their public influence is certainly greater than political, but this is a good position for them to try to impose certain legal solutions themselves even though eventually it all comes down to money. Without money, there would be no sport, without money there would be neither Ivica nor Janice, nor would Pešalov lift weights for the Republic of Croatia, there would be no handball players, there would be no waterpolitics, as time would take away more and more money for professional athletes. Secondly, what I'm saying is that this law is a mechanism for how professional sports clubs avoid their obligations to the state, and then for other believers, first of all here I mean basketball and football, football first of all. Not far from the truth, I agree here absolutely with the minister that this is the law of survival of professional football, in a way and so I can say. In one word, this Law is a law that through bankruptcy will professional sports clubs wash their debts mainly towards the state. Clearly without it, she couldn't survive, she'd collapse on her own. It could only remain with extraordinary sports results to bring back viewers, yet it is not possible to do so overnight. Only football clubs owe more than 600 million kuna, the total means these 700 million kunas. Who? The states. Let's forget about that money now. The bankruptcy did not have the courage to send them either ex, or this government, but rather offers them these rescue solutions, formulas through Article 22(1) of points 1 and 2, meaning the establishment of a new society and voluntary reshaping of a sports society. It is clearly delicate to restructure a sports stock company, and everything according to the Company Act. To the extent that this process will take place, whether bankruptcy managers will become new club managers, which according to the Banking Act would have to be in trading societies, etc., etc. How are they going to bypass the law now and pay off these enormous fees? We will come to the situation that in a described way we will wash the club of debts that are measured by "Dinama" and "Hyduk" in hundreds of millions of kunas, at "Rijeka" and "Osjeka" they exceed 50 million kuna and that tomorrow Article 23 that speaks of the payment of core capital those clubs may and the Buddha why they are privatized. That's the point. On the other hand, in Croatia, 879 company bankruptcys under the formal control of bankruptcy managers and bankruptcy councils of commercial courts are currently being conducted in Croatia. The latter are working on the distribution of vast material and financial assets of no less than 500 million kuna and no one has ever been jailed for causing bankruptcy in some of the at least 4 thousand enterprises that have completed in liquidation procedures in the last 16 years, with over 100 thousand jobs lost, some over 300 thousand jobs. But on the other hand, these clubs here we'll agree are part of our memory, someone's tradition. With these clubs, many are identified. They kind of symbolize that new age of our history. In one word, with Dinam is identified either Zagreb or vice versa, with Hajduk Split, with Pula Pula, with Osijek, with Rijeka Rijeka and that is part of how to express the sports memory of these cities. True, any major interest other than the mechanics should not be to enter these clubs, especially after the state completes the privatisation processes, so the money will only be followed by successful clubs. It will no longer be possible for Croatian waters or Croatian forests to finance Dinamo and Hajduk because someone will probably ask what logic it is to finance these clubs from the Croatian forests. True, the law fears what I'm talking about, so knowing who's running around these clubs, Article 24(2) states that one person can't have more than 1% of the underlying capital. However, right away in Article 25, it is said that it can have over 25% of the underlying capital. To quote, shares in a sports society, a share company directly, indirectly or through related persons cannot have persons whose jobs and activities can directly affect the competition system in the relevant sport, especially athletes, sports judges and persons who are members of legal persons who carry out the activities of organised sports bookies. I've been thinking about this article that talks about more than 25%, but it's good that I read this one too. This is certainly a logical solution because of the ability to adjust results, so the control of the betting system where it can be said that profits in sports will not already be realised through the betting system. It wouldn't be good for us to have bookies take over sports clubs, it's a law that should be banned, and it's forbidden by law, maybe it should be pointed out more explicitly. Article 25(1) states: "One person may directly, indirectly or through connected persons have shares to which more than 25% of the underlying capital is waste." So, with the commission's consent, you can have more than 25% of the underlying capital, so that means 40, 50, 60%. This Act on the takeover of companies in essential parts is bypassed by the Company Act. There can't be any cohesion here. The legislator's intensity is how to save primarily football clubs from uncontrollable bankruptcy and how to indirectly remove that football from the budget or public enterprises and to put order into its financing because apparently, with football where the huge black money is spinning, there is this black money and we know what not. What's also important are deadlines which, apart from the revision, are not precisely defined for 6 months. If you fail, let me call him with a reshuffle or not, if reshaping means clubs talking here takes a long time, especially if financial norms and football are referred to as all the other Croatians will be left without football overnight. The best example is Stone Ingrad. At the moment that Mr. Rabbit came to the mercy, it doesn't matter whose political, financial, media system the Stone of Ingrad just fell apart. If public companies, state-owned enterprises, city-owned enterprises, cities, etc. were to be pulled out of the clubs, it would simply disappear from the state mechanism of professional football in Croatia. I'm talking football because this law is like it was written for professional football clubs. The key to the law is certainly to transform sports companies into companies. We have to bite that out of the way. But after an independent review is carried out and they control the books as is said here in the last five years, Article 36(2), point 4, which we will then do. Are we gonna lock someone up? There's no club that's legally done business. Well, I guess we won't when there are about 2,000 persons legally convicted in the Republic of Croatia waiting for a place in prison to make another thousand or 2,000 people. Mr Mesic, the president of the state, has offered such a Solomonic solution that unnecessary Croatian military forces are being formed into prisons, however, on another occasion. It says here in Article 36 that religious stakes are converted into stock shares, clearly if you define yourself. And that could mean, maybe it's best if the cities de facto were wiped out like those who were founders yesterday because we know what the obligations are and who remain behind those clubs. True, theirs will be stadiums but the clubs will be de facto privatized. Article 36 speaks of the obligation to reshape sports clubs and I said the process in Croatia must go but in this country we will deal with two, three, maybe five years and I fear that this law will ultimately benefit auditors, bankruptcy managers, lawyers, notebooks, sports or sports mechanics and the question of how many athletes themselves. I want to believe that the law is proposed because of sports, athletes of a socially beneficial engagement, but for this we need time and this time period cannot be clearly prescribed and the length of the procedure could ruin Croatian sport which would certainly be an unforgivable mistake. I particularly welcome this fight against doping in sports, as discussed in Article 76, but I think it may have been described. I think there's an emphasis to be put on here in law. Drugs take such a measure that my court requires that children be subjected to mandatory drug testing in primary schools, high schools, colleges. One word at a time. It must become the primary task of society. So how much is it to cost us? For example, what's scary "Extasy" started by disco clubs, selling to these various parties for 10 to 15 kuna. In these 10 to 15 kunas, there is still 300, 500 and 1,000%. The price of drugs in Croatia is falling rapidly. Last year, the tablet of this Extasy was 25 to 30 kuna. A few years ago, more than 130 kuna. Now it's 10 to 15 kuna. Marijuana, one joint is sold for 5 to 6 kuna. 10 grams of 50 kuna. Hashish, 1 gram 50, 80 kuna. Cocaine, I didn't run away from the topic, 350 to 500 kuna. Heroin, one shot 100 kuna. Wait, gentlemen. One speed 60 to 80 kuna. LSD, 1 piece 40 kuna Heptanon, 10 to 15 kuna. [[The intruders don't understand.]] I don't use or I've never seen it, but I read a little about it and I follow it. And it would be good to put an emphasis on when already in Article 76 on fighting doping in this law. In one word, I will end this area so that it is mandatory, sudden to test children in schools, schools, homes, and we gentlemen can't run away from this topic. In sports buildings you always use the term of unit local and regional, regional self-government. It's a concept reserved exclusively for the county. And I doubt any Croatian county and 20 have any sports facilities. This says that the laws are prepared by people sitting in Zagreb and what offends them not to know that 20 Croatian counties together have a budget of 2.3 billion kuna. The city of Zagreb is 6.6 billion kuna. That the average budgets of Croatian counties are 200 million kuna and that there is a need for decentralisation and not now to transfer and worry about not knowing some sports clubs and so on to local self-government because they are unable to care or in general hospitals, which is probably just as important activity as caring about all this. The state monitors amateurism and so on, average sports, follow-up and other companies, and so on, and in Croatia is set aside 0.3% of gross social product. It's somewhere around 750 million kuna, and there's still a circus here that's so much under the quotes of cheap money. The first one would be, once again I'm going to say that 0.1% of gross products are directed for drug tests in our schools. So the emphasis on this law should be on kids, sports, school. There's a law to be written for. Not just for Dinamo and Hajduk. Dinamo owes exactly 250 million kuna, Hajduk about 150 million kuna. Lower-ranked clubs may have survived, these two not without this law but it is certain that without these two clubs there would be no more football in Croatia. For the end of this law, gentlemen must not be in collegiate with the Law on Commercial Society, bankruptcy and so forth because reshaping professional clubs is actually the essence of this Law. And for the end after the commercial laws were prescribed in Austrian, we run the Finnish model in the judiciary. Now we've got the Spanish model. However, Spain has always acted according to certain market principles. Croatia may not have been since yesterday. But I agree you need to bite the problem of 700 million kuna. and the survival of sports clubs in the Republic of Croatia. [[Thank you very much, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57960	Thank you very much. Now what about the seven corrections of incorrect allegations? ... First respected representative, Plasimir Sabati. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57961	Thank you, Mr. President. "Without money, there are no top athletes." That is incorrect because only then would the richest countries of the world have world champions, Olympic champions. Evidence that this is incorrect, of course, can be sought with us. The Kostelic family who practically had no money started and succeeded. That this is incorrectly confirmed by our colleagues, colleague Perman, colleague Bukic, and that I do not list the other representatives of Arapovic and so on, Filipovic, who had no modesty and at first with very modest and even as top athletes had modest scholarships, and yet they succeeded. So for a success in sports, it's not the most important money. It's important, of course, but it's about talent and work.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57962	It's not everything in the cups. Dear Representative Zeljko Ledinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57963	Dear Mr. President, I must correct my colleague Caine who said that the Croatian forests were financed by Dinamo and Hajduk. As far as I am aware, at least during my term, there is no kuna given to major sports clubs, but it is true that Croatian forests have made two ski resorts in Gorski Kotar and that they participate in the financing of the third which I think is far more positive than giving large sports clubs that can be financed in another way.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57964	Dear Representative Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57965	Thank you, Mr. President. An esteemed colleague of Cain's, I'd like to correct his complete claim. I don't want a speech, he said some things right. But fellow Caine, this law is passed solely because once and for all, such speeches as you have had happen. This is a street talk, a coffee shop speech. It's not about sports with Extasy, it's not about sports with prices. You read the prices of some, I don't know what that is? We're talking about sports here. We're not saying that "The Stone of Ingrad", "The Stone of Ingrad" is a super-functioning football club. You mixed up "The Stone of Ingrad" and a football club, and "The Stone of Ingrad" is a company. We're talking about a sports collective that's working, playing first league. That's exactly what this law is going to do. That we won't talk like you said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57966	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57967	Your Honor, Mr. President, I should correct Mr. Cain's whole speech because he didn't stick to the subject at all. He was talking about the price list of intoxicating drugs. He was talking about prisons and the subject of today's debate at this point is the Sport Act. So no, you can't bring the price list here in the Parliament as much as it is... In the drug market. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's embarrassing.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57968	And the next correction, the esteemed representative, Lino Cervar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57969	Mr. President, I just wanted to say that it is not the exact quote that should now be fought in our country exclusively because there are places where the drugs have not taken a swing, and the best example of this is very well known by Mr. Kajin that Pula is currently the first in the country of Croatia in terms of drugs and that it has significantly surpassed Zadar and Split. So we better take care of drugs in our house. And let more athletes talk about the law, not politicians. Leave it alone. Give us a little more room.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57970	Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57971	It's an incorrect claim from fellow Caine that Stone Ingrad is like a football club in ruins. The lack of explanation for the text of this law is that we don't know how many, at least we don't officially know what football club is in charge of. But Stone Ingrad is one of those who pays better and better for everything, fulfils his obligations than those that make this law more likely to be passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57972	And the esteemed representative of Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57973	Thank you very much. I'll cut it short. A series of false allegations. A colleague really confused the subject of today's law, so he introduced general hospitals of the county into the law, saying that the counties do not control general hospitals, and you know very well that they are general hospitals, that the counties are just the owners of general hospitals. Therefore, they control it very well, too, but I don't know what it does in your debate in this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57974	And why are you, why is the esteemed representative Cain if he spoke it correctly beyond the subject why he did not stick to the subject if it is true that he did not stick to the subject. Why didn't someone warn him not to stick to the subject? That's what he should have done. Minister Primorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57975	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd just like to explain a few things so that some topics don't spin back several times and the whole intensity of this law, of course, is not solving, reshaping sports clubs, and it's very important to underline. 2/3 of the law deals with investment in school sport, amateur sport, national alliance, sports buildings, the establishment of information society in sport, national sports programme, coaches and all other activities. Just one small part very clear and precise defines what you're saying. So it wouldn't have turned out right now if the law had been passed because of three or four clubs in the state that everyone recognized. It is also extremely important to say here and that is the intensity of the Croatian government. It's exactly the whole process that goes in this direction about reshaping to determine who the criminal is and who led to the debts. Well, we're not going to determine through this law of criminal provisions that are very well-known solved through the Penal Code. The first day after that, some authorities in the Republic of Croatia are dealing with those that led to this. Third thing. You mentioned a 1% and 25% question. 1% says very well that the law does not allow one person to have more than 1% of the underlying capital in two different clubs. It speaks very clearly or says that you can have a maximum of 25% without a commission, and the commission is foreseen by this law brilliantly as you know the issue of drugs. It's one question I also deal with as a minister of education and which is extremely significant, but regarding the Law on Sports there is... or the agency of the world that deals with this and just putting our agency on its feet we entered the body, and that body has defined which drugs and opiates can't be suitable to deal with, so it doesn't, in fact, have anything to do with this topic and what's special and I think it's most important to say in the end. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] You're right, Mr. MP. I think we need to hear a definitive opinion on how to make this law the first day before we bring it in means before the second reading lives in a way that we don't have to deal with any mistakes that went past real, real sports life, and if you let me, we're here full of enthusiasm and each of your remarks are recorded because it's actually the life that Croatian athletes expect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57976	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57977	The central part of this law is just reshaping sports clubs. From 102 Article 19 is dedicated to this from 21 to...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57978	Allegation. Allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57979	That part of the law is not dominant. I say it's precisely that the dominant law deals with reshaping sports clubs. It's a difficult area at this point, at least 700 million kuna. In his opening address to MPs, the minister himself made an emphasis on him, and I ask him to comply with the Law on bankruptcy and the laws on commercial societies.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57980	That's a suggestion, an explanation. It's not a correction to an incorrect quote. And the esteemed representative Joseph Judge, the Club of Representatives of HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57981	The club of HSU ladies and gentlemen is pleased to begin today to discuss this important problem. So, sport and health. However, we would like to point out that we expect a strategy on sport that would be more talked about, and we represent a third lifetime, we represent people who used to be actively involved in sports, and today we are doing recreationally in order to preserve health. There are about 400,000 of us organized, and the recreation deals with about 40,000. That's what we do in the framework of 220 retirement societies. I cannot support the law which requires me to no longer be able to actively deal with the pension society section, but I must form a sports association, give additional costs and satisfy a certain list of skills regarding teaching. We never asked anyone who wanted to work, what profession you have and whether you were trained to conduct recreation, but if he has the will and desire to deal with us everyone is welcome. We call them instructors, guides. However, we are not in that sense a formalist. We're holding each other's meetings last year. Here we have held another competition at the level of Croatia. We compete in four disciplines even though in associations we deal with a far wider number of disciplines. Therefore, I propose that we, as an association of pensioners who are actively engaged in this part of the sport, join our communities at the level of municipalities and counties, be collective members and let us work there, give us some help from the budget if we offend it. If not, we will continue to finance it ourselves. We welcome this to have an alliance of our own, etc. However, the main level is at the level of municipalities and counties, and I don't think we should be forced to reregister now to be able to engage in sports activities. Or that tomorrow our social political communities take advantage of it, so they say, you can't get some funding because you're not formally registered. So this formality is not stronger than our real desire for recreational work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57982	Thank you very much. Now we're done discussing clubs. Now we're going to an individual debate where there are only 39 MPs and MPs. For sport is a very great occupation, the Sport Act. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57983	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here I would refer only to that part of Mr. Minister's argument that these laws want to inaugurate something that seems particularly important to me, and which has been very neglected in recent years. And that's the minister's insistence, which claims that by this very proposal, sport would be returned first of all to our schools, first of all to elementary school. This I think is very important, not only from the aspect of young people's health but also in their own and therefore this burning problem that had just been mentioned, and it concerns the deviant behaviour of young people, and the causes are deep in this one conflict of society and individuals on their own young people and meeting their needs. First of all, in the '90s, so when we thought everything should be professionalized, it was neglected that amateur sport, youth sport in schools by certain amateur clubs as if the relic of the past was so hated by the former system. Of course, now she realizes that it wasn't exactly like that and that it was one value that should be reaffirmed and given her a new dimension. And I especially thank Mr. Minister for just turning the aspect and focus on this problem that I find very, very important to our citizens, above all for our young people. However, how much advocating and perhaps more than our thoughts and our desire to do just that is how different reality is. I will only show you Mr. Minister on one example how far away we are from these achievements. And what you do right now, and even until the law itself comes into force in the existing system of how some things change. For example, Zadar. You see, you haven't had a single primary school built in Zadar in 15 years. The city thus sold its own fields and now says that there is no place to build a school which was both promised and kindergartens, but that's why there's no terrain. In existing schools, primary schools, far away, away from Bologna, but still in one Zadar that has been announced to be the Mediterranean metropolis, that's what business is stuck for its own citizens especially for young people. That's where your education process takes place in three shifts. Teachers don't even get to clear the windows, so there's a threat of legionnaire disease, and we're far from Bologna. I will return specifically to this topic. One, just for example, of a case that may well be resolved that this law could also be achieved, at least in those basic specifics. Since the child of the fourth grade of primary school and on a mandatory watch, not in the free activities, nor in the elementary school during physical education experienced injury in such a way that the parquet of the child had just reached his leg, hurting a difficult child. A single mother, therefore, did not admit to harm, a single mother was forced into a painful court case and the child was therefore stigmatized. The whole school conspired, and on its own, against that child himself. That's the sport in our schools. And it's a mandatory physical education. That's one sad example, maybe the ministers don't know about it. And it's hard to know what's going on in our schools. The conditions are inadequate, and when schools are built for sports halls, the news is also great if a sports hall is built. Of course it's the authority of the local self-government unit. But certainly the school, that the state should be responsible for the damage that is done in such inadequate and fatal conditions by physical activity to solve these things. Here I am with this opportunity, and here I took advantage of this debate, and it's going to be a little broad and detailed about the law itself, but these things are already in the existing, already in the existing situation, I'm sure it's going to have to be solved. And I ask you, on this occasion, that cases like this would no longer be repeated to draw attention to these directors in one indirect way and to the body, to the authorities of local self-government. It is certain that the state has its own level of responsibility, the local community one. But I think it's just too much of this former oneness of power that we're running away from one normal agreement of all levels of government. One normal government communication of any level required. And that doesn't mean meddling in other people's level of government. However, it is normal that by means of a single agreement, one communication between the authorities of different levels, and even different branches, we can fill the task that is so important and very important in these amendments to this law, whose first reading and I personally support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57984	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57985	Here, I would correct the incorrect assumption that the public doesn't get a completely false idea of how to create a legionnaire, there's a legitimate disease. A colleague pointed out that poor ventilation in school classrooms may result in the occurrence of a legionnaire’s disease. However, dear colleagues of legionella bacteria are created only in central hot water systems if the water is not heated at temperatures above 60 degrees [60 ° C]. So it can't happen in schools, possibly just in some hotel systems or hospitals where the water doesn't warm up to the necessary temperature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57986	Dear representative Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57987	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with his associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Taking part in the 2000 Paralympic Games in Sydney, I first met with a society without barriers. These Paralympic Games shocked me in a positive way where the principle of sport for all and the principle of equal opportunities could be seen. I was impressed by the knowledge that sport is no one's privilege but that society has adapted to every individual and his needs. Australia should not have done field adjustments to sports facilities for the Paralympic Games after the Olympic Games. It was also a popularization of the Paralympic sport and during the Paralympic Games the biggest children's trip in Australia's history was organized. During the fightground, about half a million Australian children visited. The opening of the Paralympic Games was the most visited event in the number of viewers, the only thing I think is the match between Australia and New Zealand in baseball has been visited since the opening of the Paralympic Games. We can therefore conclude from this that this relatively young country, i.e. the young continent, has worked hard on the consciousness of its citizens to rehabilitate and integrate people with disabilities. Results, while top sports results and the selection of athletes with disabilities as the best Australian athletes for the year, are generally the best athletes not sharing in the category of athletes and athletes with disabilities. But it's in far away Australia, and I believe it will be in the near future with us. In Croatia, according to the Croatian Sports Federation, people with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia gather 28 basic members of the national county and city sports associations of people with disabilities. Indirectly through their members over 110 associations and clubs have been associated with more than 10,000 people with disabilities engaged in sports. From rehabilitants to recreational athletes to top athletes of all kinds of disability and various causes of disability. Therefore, sport is not only discrimination between people with disabilities within themselves. In the last 15 years, intensive development of sports with disabilities has been observed at international level. The sports movement of people with disabilities in the last four years in the world has experienced real expansion. Croatian athletes with disabilities can proudly say keep up with all the events in the world. In 2003, the European table tennis championship, conference and general assembly of the European Paralympics Committee was held in 2000. In the past year, so a year after holding the Paralympic Games in Athens, our athletes have achieved extraordinary successes in numerous competitions. At the Europe Open in Athletics, Marija Ivekovic won first place in a fifth and set a new world record. In the same competition, Jelena Vukovic won the bronze medal in the ball throw and set a new European record as well. The team of the sitting volleyball won fourth place at the European Championship for the first time, and the team of basketball players in a wheelchair qualified in the B Division at the next European Championship. Michael Spain won two first places at world swimming games, etc. The handball team of the deaf became the Olympic champion of the deaf Olympic Games. In 2005, Croatian athletes with disabilities won 245 medals, with 134 gold, 73 silver and 38 bronze medals. For the first time, Croatian athletes with disabilities performed on the international sailing regatta. At the state level, 15 national and open championships were held by the Croatian Sports Federation. The most massive competition was athletics, swimming, table tennis and shooting. Several new Paralympic sports have also been introduced in state competitions. For the first time, a state rowing competition was held on rowing ergometers and a weightlifting competition was shown. The above looks very impressive, however, to return to reality and to illustrate the way it comes to make people with disabilities even engaged in sports. All of these features have a much greater glow, for example, how many sports halls in the Republic of Croatia have access to people with disabilities, how many have access to the sanitary node, shower and toilet. How many swimming pools, except in Zagreb, have resolved access for people in a wheelchair. But let's get down to a little lower level. In order for a person with disabilities to be able to engage in sports at all, it should be included in the regular education system. There are few schools that have both physical access to school and access to education, i.e. co-workers in teaching and access to the school hall. What about the transport? The national strategy clearly determines what your ministry should have done from 2003 to 2006. I must tell you that I am not satisfied with what you have done in this section as a representative or as a person with disabilities in this part of school accessibility, or court. And something to end. When people with disabilities cross all physical, social and psychological barriers, they come across a big financial problem. It's an illustration. One basketball cart costs between $2.800,00 and 11.000,00. Then a $30.00 tennis cart and further. The prosthetics for amputants athletes from 70.000.00 to 90.000,00 kuna depending on the discipline in athletics. Sponsors do not see their interest in sports for people with disabilities, and unfortunately the media also contributes. Rarely when we see that the results of athletes with disabilities are top news days, any electronic, any press media. I'm going back to the beginning. Regardless of the Sport Act, thank God we finally have it, but as long as we do not act coordinatedly in all areas from the integration of children with developmental difficulties to the introduction of training professionals, physical adaptations to environments and sports facilities, transport, acceptable prices of orthopedic aid needed to deal with some of the sports, from equal evaluation of results and treatment in the media, it must not happen that teams of journalists are formed for the Olympic Games, and no funds or journalists can be found for the Paralympic Games to follow this sport competition. I'll give you an example in 2000 at the Sydney Paralympic Games, so there were two of us, so one journalist and I as spokeswoman for the Croatian Sports Federation of disabled Croatians who reported what was going on in Sidney. In 2004, there was a camera and a sports journalist and a journalist of HINA and a photographer in Athens. For this race in Turin, I have no information who will follow the Paralympic Winter Games. I think there's only gonna be one reporter. So much for unfair treatment of athletes with disabilities through the media. As long as the state does not meet its other preconditions provided for in the national strategy for people with disabilities, the Sport Act will only partially solve the problems of athletes with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57988	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Miodrag Zuzul.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57989	Thank you, Mr. President. I fully support Mrs. Škulic's discussion, however, I would like to say that it seems to me that in this law the ministry is showing that there is hearing as it should be for this problem which is actually a civil type issue. A problem that needs to be fought by the whole society. And once again, by supporting everything you've said, distinguished MPs, and not slowing down with it, I'd just really like to be together if anything, we take a stand on this and help and support the ministry because we really seem to be trying to make the step needed, again, for civilization reasons and our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57990	Thank you, with an apology for a change of name. And a reply to the replica, respected representative Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57991	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague, like this. At no time are we against the adoption of the Law on Sports by the Croatian Sports Federation or I as a representative. I point out once again, thank God he's finally on the benches with us. As for persons with disabilities, however, their question cannot be solved only through the Sport Act, since the problem is much wider, that it is systematic. So, from that, from integrating children into a regular education system, from adapting space, from adapting sports facilities. So of all that makes life a person with disabilities specific or, say, what meets his specific needs. To orthopedic aids that are very, very expensive. So unfortunately, the Sport Act will only in a small segment help people with disabilities who in any way want to engage in sports. Whether as recreationals or as professionals.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57992	Thank you. Minister Dragan Primorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57993	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will now try to explain the same as after each cycle of each topic because I think it is very important for the objective information of the Croatian public to talk about them. We've touched one very important question, investment in objects, and I think it's actually one of the parallel priorities as much as we're talking about a quality program, so much must be invested what they call... or objects. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At the moment, the ministry has taken a large, large number of steps to achieve only once, along with a number of other institutions. This is to make the Croatian education system the most competitive in the region by 2010. And that is the goal that the World Bank and international experts have also adopted and said that, with the Polish programme, Croatia's best. It's very important to say. What's he bringing? He's bringing in a detachment that's pretty big. I would say at this point a year at the level of decentralised funds for education a billion and 200 million kuna, which is a total of about 3.6 billion kuna so far, which went to school, and that's all the other ones. Today they are being built up, at this point are being upgraded by 144 school facilities, and what is extremely important to say is now a tender for one category of European Investment Bank... projects worth 300m euros, which means the state is giving 150, and the other 150 are leaving the loan. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today we got about, here I was looking for a number, somewhere around 130 new sports facilities that would be built out of that money. We will determine the priority, which is why the importance of this law is because it speaks about a network of sports facilities. We can't even have a country so rich anymore that we can build schools in one village or in two big schools so that one village can be more competitive to another. And that's why we bring the same thing next to a network of school facilities and a network of sports facilities. And that's very important. Today, 137 proposals per se are realistic for me to finance somewhere a 100th of them. Let's make it 100 sports facilities in the next three, four years, that's a huge step. On the other hand, local self-government, thank you very much for your question, is extremely sensitive to this. I must admit that it was a period in Croatia when local self-government could see if the state was investing. Well, you're an example abroad, if you don't have a quality education and a quality system of sports, you're not attractive to people who want to work in that environment. And I am pleased to point out that for the first time both mayors and mayors come to the ministry with their own proposals where they literally go with funding up to 50%. 50% goes to the state, it's a huge shift, but it's also a huge savings fund. And it means that local self-government has money if he knows how to use them. The second question is what has been marginalized for many years and is the last hole on the track. We're bringing it back. I would also like to highlight a new model that has begun. We have several sports facilities through a public-private partnership. You've heard where it's extremely important that local self-government organizes the ground, and the investor invests everything else. What interests me as Minister of Science, Education and Sports is that he gives this term to children in a certain period of time for swimming training and so on, and the rest of it commercializes part of it for the next 20 years when it generally returns to local self-government. And this question that you said was of immense importance, it's a question of people with disabilities. Here, I think that through the establishment of two, the Croatian Paralympic Committee and the Olympic Committee of the Deaf, we have made that civilization step that is so necessary. I agree with you personally wherever I might have participated because as long as we have a paper-based relationship to disability, and no one in our lives, we have a problem. And I would just share with you one information that I think is very important, and that is, I have officially organized with the Croatian Association of Persons with Disabilities meetings where all my and state secretaries and assistants were. Extremely constructive meetings where we literally opened the issue as an embarrassment to schools and sports facilities that do not have access to people with disabilities. And we launched together a project of the Ministry and the Croatian Association of Persons with Disabilities joint the project, provided some of the money, and if local self-government and others do not respect it, I will start calling them publicly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57994	Thank you. Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57995	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. Well, it seems to me that today we have come to this debate as if there is no law on sports in Croatia at this time. It is only a question of how much in sport, especially the one for the widest circle of people, especially young people so far invested by the ministry, so, the government and all of us sitting in this House of Commons and the units of regional, or local self-government. So far, there have been no brakes so that we can have better and better sport, better and more quality sports facilities than we have. The fact is, and it's my impression, I can't help but think that this law is still being passed mostly because the most public talk about it was when round tables were most talked about professional sports and how to get rid of the debts of some professional clubs. I think it's about 30 clubs, not far more. If we go in line, I think the lack of analysis of the situation is related to this sport. First of all, the first question of objects. Objects have been dedicated to the previous Sport Act, i.e. sport, and have been given the property rights of the unit, primarily the local self-government and the City of Zagreb. There are very few counties that have some of the sports facilities owned, but with this status we must bind both decentralisation and financial decentralisation of the state. We can talk, give commitments to regional and local self-government units, if we don't execute financial decentralisation, let that sanjak go. Without money, unfortunately, there's nothing. The other thing is that when we have the staff question, it's the money again. It seems to me that too little attention and these laws are given to school sports companies. She should be the foundation of everything. First of all, every elementary and secondary school should have its own high-quality open and closed sports facility, for example, in the town of Varazdin you have in a circle of three or four secondary schools within 300 meters, and it is natural that everyone has their own sports facility regardless of what anyone thinks it is too much because the captain and everything else will adapt and that all students have the right and the possibility of dealing with some physical activity. Unfortunately, all or a good part of sports facilities that have become cities or municipalities often have to be commercialized for lack of money so that we can maintain quality and we have to tell ourselves the easiest once and we build a new sports facility, especially if these are resorts that are extremely expensive and everything else later there are maintenance problems. Unfortunately, this law will not solve it enough. It seems to me that the Sport Law should primarily be a sport of youth and amateur sport. In Croatia we do not grieve too much with the West, so in all sports and the good parts of our leagues are professional, so simply this country has no financial and material conditions at the moment, whether we want to admit it or not. Does Croatia have the opportunity at this time to make our entire basketball league professional or semi-professional, that we do not know almost the entire first handball league that it is professional, and we have made the awareness of our people is that in football the sea and county and some other county league is being paid and that people get money and expect to get money. And it seems to me that most of this law is a life-saving belt for those clubs that have beaten the dubious mostly towards the state. When Mr. Minister speaks of 700 million kunas, I would like to hear and we must recognize ourselves the sin of all the authorities in Croatia are that they have allowed the creation of dubiosis sports clubs, primarily football clubs. We can break up our first football league if we don't pass this Act, I can also ask myself along with you that we were as fast in the bankruptcy of sports clubs as we have often or as we apply the law on bankruptcy for and enforcement to all other natural and legal persons where we would end up, but I'm asking you now Mr. Minister together, the stone around your neck has to be solved, I don't think we're bickering about it. However, persons who have led to either bankruptcy or before bankruptcy sports clubs will continue to run such sports clubs. Do we have mechanisms to stop people like that from being inside? I'm afraid we don't. That's the lack of this law. Do we have options and what happens after we bring the situation to zero? What happens after that if the clubs come back to bankruptcy, will we look favorably at them again because they are icons of Croatian society, our pride and everything else? I'm afraid we're going to do it again with some new law, and that's why I'm proposing the core capital of a sports stock society. For those who want to be professionals and everything else not enough is 500 thousand kuna. We go for those who want to be professionals in the fullest sense of that word to raise it to an envious level, and I think it should not be 500 thousand kuna, but 500 thousand euros in Croatian kuna. That way we'll prevent us from devaluation of professional clubs on one side. Secondly, I agree, even in my deep conviction, I wouldn't even allow the associated societies to have 1% of the capital that can have a private or physical legal person, but I must say if we go to professionalism, let's be, let's not have any half-assed solutions, as I believe in Article 25. Why couldn't someone as a natural or legal person be 100 percent owner of a sports club? He knows what he invests, he knows what he gets or loses, because as soon as we have some special criteria that are spoken in Article 2(2), that is, in paragraph 2 of this 25. I'll give it to you, I won't give it to you. Or anyone or anyone, but one who has the ability to own 100 percent knows what his rights and obligations are. I think there's a very clear situation here. As far as the national sport programme is concerned, I think more should be included in the Croatian Olympic Committee and all others, and less the Croatian Parliament as well as the political body. We can say we give voice to athletes and everything else, but Parliament, the Croatian Parliament is still a political body that makes laws and makes decisions. In the end, we can listen and be absolutely certain that we will listen to all the good and quality solutions that athletes say, but the fact is that athletes or one part of people, under quotes "who are making athletes" and who are shaking Croatian sports, have led us to have enormous losses. Often and irresponsibly in sports clubs administrations and act and act like I don't exclude myself and myself in the administration of one of those clubs. When we say one good part of the clubs is in the blockade of their gyro-account that's because such a relationship in Croatia as a state, we'll all spend what we don't have, we're very easy on the trigger instead of being framed in what we have. This is why the Croatian Olympic Committee, the Professional Alliance and the obligation that certain professional alliances have to have sport schools and everything else should be included more in the national sport programme. I'm afraid professional clubs, if they're naked professionalism, and if, of course, professional alliances don't have it as an obligation, there won't be any more pioneering or cadet teams or junior teams, everything will be directed towards the professional drive. That is why it is necessary to give this Law and special so privileges I would say for the schools of certain sports that will be within sports clubs or will be independent most often in some elementary or secondary schools. It's final. It seems to me that and this is my deep belief someone can correct me in any way I think this law can be a good starting point but it is the most we do in how to save twenty, thirty professional clubs in Croatia where a certain circle of people live well who have made losses. I would, on the way, ask the question, Mr. Minister, which is the revision and how in some of the icons of Croatian sport will determine what they have the players' contracts when these contracts are illegal, illegal, are not certified in public notebooks, money revolves around foreign gyro-accounts and everything else. Which will be a realistic assessment of the situation and the prices of these sports clubs. I think that in some way banning it may not sound nice and good but to those who have brought sports clubs into this situation I stress they will continue to shake Croatian sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57996	Thank you. Replica is a respected representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57997	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, in his debate, he mentioned two groups of problems that I consider to be actually the most serious. This school amateur sport and obligations of units of local or regional self-government under this law. For example, it provides for this law to bring in a network of sports facilities, so it says that when issuing local permits, it needs the ministry's consent to build these sports facilities but in part of the insurance of money that the state does not normally assume any obligations but provides for the obligation for regional self-government to participate in the financing of facilities, sports facilities of national importance, even so. The bill came on 9 February this year by the Prime Minister to the Parliament. Just a day earlier, the Government's Water Contribution Regulation was published to which about a municipality that would build a handball playground or a small football field for its construction should pay 30 thousand kunas of water contribution and if the municipalities were so naive and wanted to build on the system half the sports hall, the school gym with co-financing of local or regional self-government 50%, as in Međimurje the custom was always the minimum water contribution fee of 300 thousand kuna for each such new sports hall. And that is why, in the concept of this law and the constant demonstration and the claims of great concern for amateur and school sports, we cannot debate it because there is no strategy for the development of sports but we must discuss it in the context of the obligations that already exist. And therefore, without answering the question of colleagues of the Korenika on the financial decentralisation of the state, this is a proposal for the law of a vision of the state of sport for about 80 years, but not for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57998	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Miroslav Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u57999	Dear colleague Lesar, I don't think there's any difference between you and my way of thinking. We're on the same track because the easiest thing to do is to give regional and local self-government obligations and the hardest thing to do is to decentralize first of all the state. The fact is that in our country but it's not just a matter of this government, it's a long case he doesn't know what his tail is doing. And that's a fact. One regulation, one law prescribes obligations, another as a foll, we have reliefs that really don't exist. I would also remind you of the article in the 70s which you called for the fact that it is my impression that this article may in some way be related to the organisation of the European Football Championship in Croatia. I guess that's where we'll all be building football stadiums together in several Croatian cities instead of making them, and that's my deep belief that every single school that exists in the Republic of Croatia has a closed and open sports facility. In this way we will allow everyone to play sports, but then be able to be in these school facilities which is now sometimes done and the possibility of recreation and everything else. But I said, the problem of maintaining sports facilities is extremely large in Croatia because it is necessary to commercialise the facilities because the units primarily of local self-government that are the owners of sports facilities do not have enough money to do so. Objects fail whether I want to admit it or not. For example, a closed swimming ground was recently built in Varazdin. It will bring losses and the state should find a way to help because the fact that basic basic sports in Croatia are progressing slowly and by their development all other sports would be better and the nation would ultimately be healthier and better.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58000	Thank you. Minister Dragan Primorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58001	Dear Mr. Representative, I can understand your reasons why you are so concerned about sports facilities but the strategy of getting to sports facilities, I am telling you this as a minister who has managed to raise the budget by 24% in two and a half, three years and 700 million kuna, and yet I cannot build more than 144 objects is exactly to bring a body as the National Council for Higher Education and Science, which is a strong wind in the back and the National Sports Council. Why? Because there is no minister or government that will make a decision to increase the budget between five and six billion over a period of three, four years and that each school will be set up by a sports facility and should be spoken out loud and clear. And on the other hand, the strategy mentioned and discussed tells you this, that the state has to go parallel to several levels. One of these levels is the EIB2 project and another World Bank project, which I was now talking about in total about 500m euros over a four-year period, but also the participation of local self-government. Let me say that 3.7 billion kuna in the last three years is quite an amount for education and one extremely important piece of information that I think is important to mention here. When we talk about sports then it is important to say that school sport remains under the care of the state so that no activity from school sports will happen on the side or be financed if it happens to any club that is at local self-government. It's extremely important because your idea that you said every class that deals with and every school that's exactly the intensity of this law, is just the question of what's the best intensity won't live up to if you don't create a prerequisite for it. And one of the preconditions that is certainly necessary is parallel construction. And let me tell you. Without strategies and colleagues who have long known that this country has never adopted a strategy to build a network of school facilities. We've run it and it's working in a way that right now you have a satellite recording of every school facility, if you want to know how population movements are in that area, what demographic movements are, and how much school is necessary in an object so it's the same intensity of this law to create a network of sports facilities because I'm telling you besides that 30% of schools today have only sports facilities you're never going to achieve them in a way that goes directly out of the budget because it's going to take you 15 or twenty years to create a network of sports objects because no matter how fast that dynamic is. But what we got a few days ago, I would say from two counties of proposals through a public-private partnership, through the "EIB2" projects where we will build 100 sports facilities, the World Bank projects we can roughly in the period from around 3, 3 and a half years about 300 sports facilities in the Republic of Croatia will build that will not be enough, but will raise the percentage to about 65 to 70%. It's the only way. I know it's always not easy for local self-government and local self-government has to reconsider. If he goes with the facilities, with one swimming pool that of course the state is always based on sports, sports and will help with swimming education and all other activities. This part that's commercialized they'll have to worry about. And let me just have two comments about this crime that you mentioned. Well, the urgency of this law is that the people who worked, if of course it's proved through the Commission to end up where they belong. Because of course no one knows what they were doing today, how much they were doing, and if we talk about the secret contracts that exist for individuals, then the revision will determine them. If they hide them, they don't exist as a debt to us. And they're not like a believer to us. And that's one of the fundamental rights that you know. On the other hand, this 25% no one wants to limit someone from becoming a majority club owner if you want 100%. But having experience of how Croatia is so far because we are still doing a quick transition we have given ourselves an effort to be careful and therefore the Committee for Professional Sports Clubs through which you can see the composition which is very, I would say, I would say very openly you are actually leading to a situation that sees who gets 25% must be detailed so that eventually those you call or I tomorrow suspect cannot get inside. And that's why you have two, two filters. The first filter is a positive regulation of the Republic of Croatia and the Penal Code which will apply to those who prove to have alienated money or something like that and the second is a filter of the Commission which is actually the most body in which members of the Sports Federation and others sit and say: you are the person who was suspicious. You managed to get past the law somehow because of old age or something, but you can't get into this body. So that's double control. The Spanish made it, and for Croatia, there is no better model. And the question of the Croatian Olympic Committee. The Croatian Olympic Committee is a roof body and you know that Italy and Croatia are the only two countries that have it. The others somehow have it as other colleagues mentioned within the group of alliances but the Croatian Olympic Committee has given full support to this Council because it knows it will not interfere with his authority. He runs the strategy and makes suggestions and opinions. So, here's thank you for saying that, but it's really very important that there's one body. It's not a political body. The academic community that selected members for the National Council for Higher Education and Science chose from the university, university institutes. But the Croatian Parliament has gone through every name to see if it is competent and once approved by the National Council today makes the most difficult decisions that give me the right to refuse university credentials, high schools that I would never have as a minister, because a series of interests in that matter have been mixed. There is a similar situation with regard to the National Sports Council. And about this question that was about 500 thousand kuna. This is about starting new ones and not these old ones because for these old ones, it means that we are counting the formula of total debt, expenditure and business, from which the underlying capital will be derived, which in most cases for large clubs will not be below 20 million kuna. So no one on the street will be able to buy it. However, we have left one other possibility that we are talking about. If there's an interest in local self-government and it's the interest of parliamentary representatives, we can get around that point, and simply this first step doesn't allow anyone to take the risk but to switch to local self-government. So then we'll go around, I know what you're alluding to... possible Dinamo and similar where small debts are and where it is simply easier than for example for large debts like Hajduk buys. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we can do that. And that's the second alternative model. And I thank you for, especially for what you've pointed out about the transformation, but really at this point double control of the Commission is our only guarantee that we can make sure that the persons who committed the crimes or the like, that we can't let them get back into the organization, I'd say the structures of the new clubs that should go into debt zero, so if I can't do business after two or three years, we have both legal and any other basis that this club goes into bankruptcy. It's not too late for him either. Here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58002	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58003	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, in this presentation, he has made the incorrect allegation of the increase in funds in the State budget for education and science several times so far. And this creates an incorrect impression that something is now significantly greater than anything else. If we compare state budgets with total increases in the state budget, increases in other ministries, other educational resources are growing from year to year. If in real, relative terms, not in nominal terms if we compare them to other means. For example, the increase in the 2006 budget was 6.4%. The ministry's increase was 5.4, for example, while the foreign ministry grew 20%, and only two ministries had a smaller index. Therefore, the overall share of funding for science and education is reduced year by year in real terms and does not increase regardless of nominal increase, but all other nominal increases are significantly higher.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58004	And the esteemed representative, Happy Ferenchuck.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58005	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm correcting an incorrect quote, Mr. Minister. You said the Croatian Olympic Committee fully supports the National Sports Council. That's not true. Yesterday we were on the Committee on National Security and on the Sports Committee where the secretary said he supported, the same thing I said that I support the National Sports Council unless it interferes with the work of these sports organisations. You've confirmed today that it won't be. So it's okay and it's good to think about it that way. It's also not true that there was no network of sports facilities so far. There was she and today it's not good to think now we've come, and now it's all starting from us. It's not that, it's not like that. That the bad situation I agree with you absolutely, however, and you said in Varazdin the HNS project is a public-private partnership for the construction of sports schools and sports halls where 30 schools will be built. The project is also designed there to finance and lend students. Well, maybe it's a good idea for the ministry to start thinking that way. It will be easier to fund sports facilities out of budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58006	Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58007	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Croatia has the Law on Sports, a valid law. It's a good law, in some parts even better than what's now being offered. So why is there a new law being offered in the first place? Well, first of all, it's time to settle football club debts. That's the main problem. And how is that going to work out now? The famous formula of reshaping. Transformation, and what does reshaping mean? This means that the creditors will turn their demand into shares and that the clubs will get a new ownership structure. They'll turn their claims into shares if they want to. If they're interested. It's unlikely that smart people will be interested in it because what the hell is some stock of failed companies going to do? And our football clubs are your failed business. Well, if the reshaping doesn't work, then what happens next? Next is the bankruptcy. The bankruptcy takes place under the bankruptcy law. We normally have a bank manager, we have a bankruptcy judge, and what can we hope for now? If this bankruptcy judge is, for example, Mr. Nenad Šepic as in the bankruptcy of the Retaga, then we can expect the new owner of one of the sports clubs to become members of the underworld. But under the provisions of Article 37, paragraph 9 of the proposed law. Even if this reshaping succeeds a legal person in a largely state-owned or in which the state has a majority stake, that is, a package of shares can transfer their claims to a local self-government unit where it is the seat of a sports club. This specifically means that our viewers would rarely, who are monitoring this transmission, understand what this is about. That means the City of Split will become a shareholder of Split, this Hajduk. And now he gets a package of shares. He can do whatever he wants with them. He can sell them, he can share them, so if those shares are shared as concessions are shared on liner maritime traffic, there's Buljubašić for co-owner of Hajduk. So it will be, except it will be a successful shipowner whose tied ships break and sink ships by sea, but it will likely be the shareholder of Hajduk. He says that we will not rightly resolve anything of this law, because those who run politics today, sports policy by these clubs, will remain the same after this law is in force. Probably will. Why? They're favorites of politics. They're favorites of politics, so they've become successful sports managers. Successful, I dare say sports tycoons. When they lose the ground under their feet. They lose ground under their feet when the political mercy over them ceases, and what else is left to them at that moment when the political grace ceases they have nothing left but to fall down the stairs and go to apply, immediately, as soon as they fall to the police station to report that they themselves have fallen down the stairs. For this reason, the law is likely to drop the provision of an existing law, which reads: “To allow just such an entry into sport and survival in sport.” The provision of the law, which states under the applicable law, cannot participate in sports competitions or establish a working relationship for the purpose of performing professional activities in sport, nor carry out sports activities on its own three years after the maintenance, pardoned or outdated punishments of a person, legally convicted of a criminal offence against the Republic of Croatia, for a criminal offence against the values protected by international law, for a criminal offence against sexual freedom and sexual law, for a criminal offence against life and the body unless it has been committed at large or out of nowhere, for a criminal offence against marriage, family and youth, for crimes of theft, serious theft, robbery and robbery, for serious crimes against human health. A necessary provision. Sportsmen aren't just athletes. They are a role model for young people and it doesn't matter whether a athlete is a successful athlete and also a moral verticalist, a moral role model. Well, we had in sports, we had one prominent member of the HDZ, Mr. Renu Sinovčić, a football judge involved in crime. We did, and we'll have them again and again when you've thrown this provision out of the law. And please explain to me, Minister Primorce, which is why, unless you're in a state of urgency, unless there's a wide open door for you to get into this particular sport so you can set a role model for our young people. The issue of sports individuals is not well resolved. It's the same existing law look he had one, two, three articles that solved that question. You're dealing with him badly. You say a athlete can also be a person who performs sports activities on his own by participating in sports competitions. But the right to categorize only has an athlete as a member of a legal person. So it's just the one at the club. This one's an individual, this one's an independent athlete. He can't get categorization, and categorization is the basis for acquiring certain rights. Well, I'm asking you now, there are athletes like you in individual sports who are self-sustaining in sports. Which is why you're denying them that right, and so far they've had it. Look how well the existing law says it. Sport activities, participation in sports competitions, can be performed independently, it was called sports activities of independent athletes only in competitions at national or international competitions. Excellent one solution in the existing law. You've completely missed it. You have, you say here that the law, among other things, is being passed because it is very encouraging these sporting activities in schools. Well, look, it's still in the law. And so far, and I'm going to tell you that it's much better settled in law. Because watch what it says in the applicable law. In primary and secondary schools, student sports clubs are established to conduct outside the teaching sports activities of students. You have changed that sentence to: “For the purpose of conducting outside the teaching sports activities of pupils in primary and secondary schools, school sports societies are established.” That's big progress, big progress compared to the existing law. It's exactly the same. However, in the old law, the existing law states student sports clubs are established by school committees. They know their founder. You don't have any founders. It doesn't say who the founder is. So they're starting up. Who founded them? We don't know. If no one answers, no one has a duty, they won't start. But Mr. Minister, that's not the problem. And today, the students have a chance. They have sports halls. He's got schools. As many as there are, it would be better if there were more. Why do not the disciples exercise in them? Because your ministry doesn't allocate enough money to pay teachers for outside teaching or pay them I think 2 hours a week have the right, 2 hours a week. At 2 hours a week, how much they can work with those kids. I can't. He wants to work for the bad guy. It won't work for the bad guy. So, we don't need a new law, we need more money for those teachers, so the kids will practice more. Next, sports associations in sports recreation. It's something I'm extremely sensitive to. It's a great sport, but we'll cherish the nation's health and... about sports if we allow recreational sports to be played by everyone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You predict, as you say. In order to meet the need to preserve, maintain, improve and improve psycho-physical skills and health, and to enrich free time by exercise and sports activities, citizens can establish sports associations as a society of sports recreation. Citizens, and what if citizens don't start them? It won't exist. It won't exist. Well, it's an obligation for the state to establish them. I remember when I was a boy there was such a society. Many will not like the name of this society, “Partizan”. It doesn't have to be called that. It's important that it exists. That's when the kids all of us could go. There were sports halls, we could go totally free practice and not be members of some club because you know when you get into the club there the coach wants results. He wants young talents. He's working on them. He has no time to deal with these who would simply what the Zagrebs would say to goboli, who would practice, who would spend their free time in such sports facilities. And they'd better spend it there than on the street. Therefore, you should provide for the state to be the founder, to be the founder, and to pay for the existence of such societies for recreational sport. Because that's all that can make it possible, only money can make it possible for these young people to enter the halls. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58008	Thank you. We have a series of corrections of incorrect allegations. First, respected representative Željko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58009	Thank you, Mr. President. In a number of the following allegations, stated by fellow Stazic, it is especially frightening that the first one that is ranging entirely from the atmosphere in which the debate on the Sport Act is being held in this House, which is that in many parts the old law was better than the new one. Let's ignore the already known cynicism of fellow Stazic who conducts discussions in this High House in a way that doesn't like this High House, but I definitely doubt that he ever worked and ran an amateur club and met with the troubles that this old law, let's call him now and old, brought him and make it impossible for us to function normally. Therefore, it is quite an incorrect quote and all those involved in sports, athletes, those who run clubs, coaches, can't wait for the new law to come into force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58010	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58011	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'd like to correct an esteemed colleague when he said that individuals in sports can't get any categorization. Well, you can, Mr. Stazic, because every single person in order to engage in sports must have an alliance. And the alliance of him... We can't come out of the hall now and play some game, in any sport, whether individually or collectively. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We must be members of an alliance, whether it's a football alliance, handball, basketball, ski alliance, we must belong to an alliance so that we can compete in any competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58012	Third correction, give up. Fourth Amendment, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58013	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's the first false assumption that sports associations don't work because they're not funded by the Ministry either. I am calling on a colleague to come to the Samobor area, the ideally functioning sports alliance, something given by the state, something county, the rest of Samobor City and the Municipality of the Council of Sunday, and it functions decisively. The second is an incorrect allegation that great lovers of sport lead, favorites of politics run by sport. It's not true, let's see, we have a tennis alliance, we have no ski alliance, etc. And my colleague, please, someone scared you off with a saying that the truth hurts. Try something true once, and you'll see it's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58014	Next Amendment, Honored Representative Branimir Pasecky.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58015	So I'd change the same thing, make an observation about where we're calling back on some old laws that are better laws. Well, you had time in those four years to really do some good in the development of sports in Croatia, taking care of how you speak now. Instead of giving concrete assistance to the implementation of this law, you are using things to criticize all new ones that are being introduced into life.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58016	Replica, a respected representative, Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58017	Dear fellow Stazic, unlike some of those who, under the firm's corrections, are actually replicating I will use the replica to sort of respond to some of the quotes from your presentations. Especially the part about the old law being in some parts better than this existing law. I mean, it should be said that individual solutions, and there you have well noticed that the primary school sport is the same in both old and new law, but that again, as in the old law, we have no guarantee that implementation will be different. You have very good colleague Stazic noticed that the school student clubs which now exist are renamed to school students' societies, but also now became the Union of School Students' Clubs which are now only renamed to the Croatian School Sports Federation, and you have also recorded why the school halls remain empty after teaching. And part of it you've claimed exactly that it's because teachers don't pay. Another reason is that the rules of the existing ministry are not implemented, which is now kind of being transposed into the law, which is that the school halls must be free in the evening for child training. The provision exists now, but is not respected. And I think you're quite right in your debate to warn that it's not as much a problem in solutions, in their formulation as there's a problem with just some things not being carried out. And another thing, partly encouraged by your exposure, but also by some now rather naughty comments under the firm's correctional quote. I mean, this law has been done for the last six years. And this is not this law of fiction of neither this minister nor this government nor the past government, but is the result of a continuous work of large numbers and sports and public workers over the last six years. And I think you should say that, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58018	Before responding to the replica, when you've replicated, then don't call the other MPs, their allegations, naughty. It's not in the replica. It's not in the nature of the replica. Replicate response, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58019	Thank you, dear colleague Lugarić, for replicating me and giving me the opportunity to respond to your replica, unlike counterparts Nenadić, Markovinović and Pasekko who do not have the courage to lift up a replica board, do not have the courage to face a reply to the replica, and all of them...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58020	I warn you, and I warn you, do not insult the MPs. You insult the MPs, I give you a warning. Please proceed. ...which allows them all the President of the Parliament because it has double criteria given that... Thank you very much. I take your word. Please sit down. Don't. No one's doing the criteria. Why do you appoint representatives and insult them? It's not right and don't insult them.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58022	So you're giving them that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58023	Minister Dragan Primorac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58024	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's a little bit of a break from the Sports Act, which is probably as good as a brief analysis. But let me now turn to two comments that were one explanation. It is true that it is the law and we must make sure that it has worked over the last six years and it is good that there is a political consensus on it and there is no doubt there. But let me when we talk about money, I just have to say it. It's not mine, nor was this government's life wish to repay debts close to $400 million with interest, and you know that shift work and regression did, and we managed to block the system that 30,000 lawsuits were no longer in the system and that schools weren't blocked as much as we could. That's almost 200 million extra budgets. I could've made 30, 40 halls if it was more, right? But my colleague Stazic, what you said, this is an extremely important article, and we did not miss it, but was moved to Article 63. So he stayed inside because there would be neither courage nor common sense if a person who was legally convicted of a crime against the Republic of Croatia or something like that were thrown out, but missed. However, we have added another clause regarding this law at the end, that the person in paragraph 2 against whom the criminal proceedings have been initiated, is new, for the criminal offence referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, will be suspended in participation in sports competitions, i.e. professional activities in sport, i.e. to carry out independent sports activities, i.e. even in participation in the work of the Assembly or the executive work of the sports association. So we strengthened it significantly, and thank you very much for commenting on it, but here he is in there just moved towards the end, you should have read it. The Law on Associations, you mentioned the Sports Society "Partizan" and I know it and in Split was one and it worked well, but you know that no one can be forced and that in fact every legal person or political association can organise under the Law on Associations similar activities and it does not make sense to enter this law. And I'm obliged to mention one more thing, which is about the sports alliance. It is not easy to change the Croatian School Sports Federation drastically immediately. We can go through legal regulations and through money, but five are new elements. Five is new. First, space and school. You know when we tried one action to open schools for students and parents how individual directors and individual environments reacted. You know that, and it's not about this government at all, and whoever comes to that position will happen, but we've given priority now, and we've dealt with it by law. Second, professional leadership. Well, of course it's not all about our kids, and that's another point that's brand-new in law. Third period, medical examinations. As a pediatrician, it was a shame to look at some children who went into the competition system to have second degree noise on their heart or third degree or to have respiratory difficulties. Well, this is a novelty in this law that no one has mentioned before. The fourth point is the issue of monitoring and directing. Let this be an extremely important point. The child needs guidance. The system of education without a system of education is a dead system. That's the fourth. And the fifth, if the roof institution, it's the Croatian School Sports Federation is not a novelty in the organization system, then I don't know what's new. So if you allow a lot of good suggestions over these six years, and, of course, the final point or the final idea is... the law that I am experiencing as a consensus of all and who here wants to point out that this is an advantage of either this government or someone else, but let me give more than 120 public debates has given a consensus on this material that I am talking about and there is no sports alliance in the Republic of Croatia that is against. The Croatian Olympic Committee is correct, Mr. Srecko Ferenčak said, has given full support if you do not interfere with the intelligence, I have again explained that there is no interference in the intelligence. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58025	Correction of the incorrect alleged, respected representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58026	A respected fellow minister has actually said two inaccuracies to which I would like to warn by comparing the previous system of school students' clubs and now school students' societies to terms in school halls in school areas. Namely, you are now introducing it into the law, but it has now existed and there is still a binding rule that requires up to 21 hours of the school hall to be free and open for the activities of the school's student club, or for sports recreation in the lower classes of primary school and extracurricular activity of the sports character that is not being implemented at all, because schools have no money for any other reason, because you in the ministries are not in any way controlling whether it is being implemented at all in schools. So it's not a newspaper, it's just a different legal manipulation of the whole story, but it's basically the same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58027	Next correction, honourable representative Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58028	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I was distracted when the minister in the argument of support for this law said he had received general support for the bill, and only the sports organisations quoted it as saying. I am not sure that this law would be supported by workers who do not work, which would mean general support, because if the law allows for the debt of existing clubs of 700 million kuna to be recovered, then it will not get the general support of Croatian citizens because it is simply not of interest for the Republic of Croatia to settle the debts of "Dinama", "Hajduka", "Rijeka" etc. It is a professional sport and must have its reflection on the market and not on the burden of society. That's an incorrect argument. Sports alliances, yes, they gave him support I don't know, but they're stakeholders. They're interested groups.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58029	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Mirko Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58030	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here I am in the first row glad that as a athlete, I have long waited for this law to say something about it, as a man who felt some shortages of sports system in the Republic of Croatia on my skin. The need to adopt a new Sport Act is doubtless and should not be questioned at all. The need was seen by the coalition government when the complex process of looking for the best solutions for Croatian sport began. Although we sometimes feel that sport in Croatia is going great and that we get great results when we face serious analyses and comparative data, we suddenly get a completely different picture. It is clear to me that sports in Croatia are not placed on healthy feet. It is therefore necessary to support every effort and attempt to get the Croatian sport back on track. The new proposal of the Sport Act provides several excellent solutions in this regard. Can anyone make one serious argument against the applicant's intensity that in Croatian sport at all levels of competition, especially when radios to athletes, professional coaching jobs must, should and should be performed exclusively by the most educated and competent experts and trainers. It's completely unimaginable that the existing Sport Act didn't regulate it now. Finally, it was realized that even in sports, the criteria of expertise must be knowledge that can only guarantee sports results. However, it should certainly be pointed out that it is only an attempt to solve the problem of Croatian sport, I would even say about a pale attempt. In this proposal of the Sport Act, only fire measures can be read, the flame is extinguished, but the promoter obviously did not have the courage to face the real causes of the problem and the situation in Croatian sport. The first cause of the problem of Croatian sport is the system of financing sports in Croatia. As a proponent, the government has not been able to change the existing system of sport funding by even the slightest intervention. In the new proposal of the Law on Sports, everything remains the same as it has been, and in fact, the key cause of the problem of Croatian sport is finance and the system of financing. The state is ready to give up millions of kuna claims from sports clubs, but it is not ready to create any financial conditions in which Croatian sport could survive and prevent a new build-up of debt that can certainly be expected unless the system of financing sports in Croatia is changed. Here I will give an example only of the Croatian Olympic Committee which has a budget of 70 to 80 million kuna, depending on the year. And I'm going to give an example of the boxing team, or the boxing alliance that I was a member of. The basis of progress in this sport, a very traditional sport with us that has great results from Parlov, Benes, Mavrović, today Drvis and Christmas have no minister of progress without money. Money means going to all the tournaments. There are about 12 international tournaments in Europe. Our boxers go to an average of 2 to 3 and only 3 or 4 boxers, and for every special boxer, they need extra money that we couldn't secure. I've been in that situation a few times, mostly by Stipe Trees, Stipe Christmas and my little one. We used to travel with Peru Tadic because there was no money left. There was no money today that neither to buy a new van nor to send a complete team. How you guys are gonna melt, steel in international competitions to win a medal at the Olympics. The World Cup, there is an exception to a great Mladen Shivoli who has made a truly world result, given the conditions in which he has trained. While at the same time, I was particularly distracted by this, I think there is a year of it, and the Croatian Olympic Committee signed a sponsorship agreement with Wolksvagen. Now I don't know exactly what number it was, but among other Wolksvagen Paul that they bought for the needs of athletes bought out, they got it, so there was a contract, a super-luxurious Wolksvagen... A limo costing 100,000 euros. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For Croatian Olympic Committee officials to be able to drive in a super-luxurious limousine, which I find very incorrect because it is better to buy 7.8 Wolksvagen Pola and make use of the well-deserved athletes. And whoever wants to ride in a super-luxury limo, get it out of his own pocket. But well, that's quite something, the other pair of sleeves now. I therefore ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia to make changes and improve the system of sport financing by the next reading, because without that, any further debate on the proposal for a law on sport and the benefits it brings can be hung by a cat on the tail. First of all, I mean tax reliefs and other benefits for sports investors. If sport, now cramping in debt, was completely unattractive to potential investors why do you think that now suddenly investors will pile up and start investing in Croatian clubs and Croatian sport. I therefore hold the need for the Government to take another step forward and let it do for Croatian sport only what will truly help him at this time. Change existing tax legislation and thus stimulate the economy and investors to invest in Croatian clubs and Croatian sport. Here we have new things, actually key things that the new Sport Act brings and proposes. I support them from the heart. It's my only questionable establishment of the National Sports Council. Just me, I was just worried that it would not be another increase in administration, that it would not be every pot cover again, would it interfere with the Croatian Olympic Committee's authority, which is then the role of the Croatian Olympic Committee? In what way they overlap, they will reportedly only give an opinion and work on a strategy. Then why is there a Croatian Olympic Committee? Is there no competent people in there to do that? Do the Croatian Olympic Committee need people to give them an opinion? I think there's enough competent and professional people out there to do it, but here, time will show if it's a good decision. If it is, I am truly looking forward to it. ... I find it very good and very necessary, very important. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That the coach must have a higher or higher professional equipment. You're clearly referring to a Chinese college, right? Judges cannot participate in the work of the congregation and the executive body. I absolutely support that decision. Very important thing for the Croatian sport base, for amateur sport priority in using school and university and sports halls. It means that school and student clubs can have and have the right to use before outside users, which has often not been the case. So often the recreationals came and had the right to use the hall after we paid, which is below the table, which is the regular route. So the principals simply tolerated it and clearly the school children were cut off. Especially this base, or amateur sport, which is most important to us. The important thing is just the question of how much this will take place, the protection of sports buildings and land intended for the construction of sports facilities. So far, so... very easily repurposed land intended for the construction of sports facilities for us in Croatia, we are now about 30% of the need in terms of population according to the European Union's criteria. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And you agree clearly with that. And it's been going for a long time... So, for the land that was intended for the construction of a sports facility, it's been very easy to go so far and I support that decision. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It means that, with the agreement of the ministry, they will be able to re-purpose it. Like, that wasn't the case until now. The adoption of the Law on Inspection in Sports is foreseen. It's a dispute for me now, what does that mean? That it'll just be brought in. I think it's urgent to bring it in because it's the same situation for you when you set the road sign of speed limit 60. And if people know there's no police there's not one who'll drive 60, they'll all drive 80, 90, 100 or 150 depending on who's got the car. While, as soon as the police are on the road, people will still force themselves to obey regulations. So, therefore, I don't think there's time to predict something but it needs to be carried out by an emergency procedure, that kind of inspection. I don't know, I'm not a legal expert to understand right now, I don't know how it should be achieved but that should be some kind of control that will control exactly all of this absolutely. One of the main reasons we need to be honest is the losses of the big Croatian first leaguers. Football, handball and basketball. Their accounts are blocked, they can't do normal business, and the state has two choices in it. Either to send all these clubs into bankruptcy, which clearly won't happen, or to tolerate their business. And he can't tolerate one Dinam, one Hajduk, and he can't tolerate one craftsman in private at the same time. And the state will therefore transfer all responsibility from sport to local self-government units in a way that will turn all claims the state has towards the club into equity shares, i.e. shares. And leave it to the local administration and self-government with a special commission going to assess the value of clubs. I don't know how much that kind of solution's gonna live up to, I don't know. Time will show its own, it's hard to say now how much it's going to be, because there's a lot of clubs where debt is greater than value, simply. So I don't know how it's gonna work out, but once again I want to say that I'm not even a lawyer, so I don't know those details. I believe that in the first place a network of sports facilities should be expanded in Croatia, that this should be the main task of both the Ministry of Sports and the new Sport Act. And solve funding, i.e., sponsorship through the change of the tax system to ensure more money for both the growth of amateur sport and the highest. Because success and the development of top-notch sports is exclusively about money. He's a colleague. A colleague here mentioned that it wasn't really all about money. Well, of course not, of course not. It's a matter of personal engagement, of desire, of will. After all, examples from our more famous athletes speak of it, from Kostelic, Ivanisevic, from Duja Draganja, that I do not now list the people who flashed in the world of sports at international level, but this is not all without money, I think. This cannot be done without money and especially with the budget that the Croatian Olympic Committee has and with the funds it gives them. I'll only pass on one example of myself. I clearly don't, what I do is not an Olympic sport. Someone calls it my private business, someone who's got a soft spot, but it's still a very popular sport in the world, and I depend on myself, as much as I train and pay for it. They pay me what I'm worth. It's a simple calculation, but I also in the beginnings of my career, of course it took a great investment, the man who helped me back then sent me to Amsterdam every month, a top-of-the-line diet, sparring partners, a coach from America, a coach from Brazil. Well, it all costs, it's not just for fighting sports, it's so, it's worth everything. I'll give you another example of the boxing team. Other teams go to Cuba at least twice a year for 20 days with Cuban boxers who are considered the best boxing experts. Unfortunately, we can't afford it. That's one of the big reasons I see my time is up, I don't know if I have any more. Done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58031	No, thank you very much. And hear the occasions on the second occasion. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58032	Thank you, Mr. President. Congratulations to Mr Filipovic on this presentation, but one thing I would do would be to correct one little thing when he said that money was all in sports. And I couldn't agree with that if I didn't know how many million kunas was something someone was giving me I wouldn't get in your ring. Another correction to one of the incorrect allegations, when Mr Filipovic spoke about the vehicles of the Croatian Olympic Committee. So the Croatian Olympic Committee signed a sponsorship agreement with the auto house, which undertakes that the president of the Croatian Olympic Committee must drive the car exclusively for advertising, marketing. It costs him nothing, but the president of the Croatian Olympic Committee must drive that and that car.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58033	Replica, a respected representative, Željko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58034	Thank you, Mr. President. Here I am unusually pleased to have had the opportunity to hear from a respected fellow Filipovic, who is a top athlete himself, and I fully support what he said as a former athlete and as a man who is now working in sports, and I am especially pleased that he has presented the two facts that we in sport know very well and that are being challenged here, and that is the first fact that the fact and what he and a respected colleague said is that we both athletes and people who work in sports can hardly wait for this law to come into force and that is the fact and it stands, and the second is the fact that there is definitely money in the sport, whether they are from the budget of the Republic of Croatia, whether they are from the budget of local administration and self-government, whether they are from sponsors. It's just a question of how and who distributes that money? There's always enough money for some, and there's no money for some. Therefore, this must be taken into account. And only in the end would I say that raising a tile was not a measure of courage but a matter of the Rules of Procedure, and a measure of courage, I think it was either who defended the Croatian homeland in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58035	Replicate response, Honored Representative Mirko Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58036	... Yes, as far as sports financing is concerned, I agree with you fellow Nenadić that he has enough money only to be distributed the wrong way. [[Specially enabled.]] One of those ways of deploying... The Croatian Olympic Committee, as counterpart Arabovic said. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Couldn't the president have said give me some "volkswagen passat" so unlike that, we'll buy five? In fact, it shows its size and care for Croatian sport, not for driving and for being forced by this house I doubt it. I think at home it's absolutely no matter which car model someone's driving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58037	Second replica, Honorable Representative Happy Ferencach.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58038	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I would agree with my colleague Filipovic in the part where he says he doesn't have enough money for sports, that the state doesn't separate enough money for sport, that I was saying already in my presentation because if a result is achieved without money it's a flash result, it can't last. So in that part of it, I absolutely support it and I think we should all engage to try and find some means, to get them to the state to... As far as the money is in the sport of what counterpart Nenadic said, I am talking about state money, it is being deployed precisely in agreement with the alliances. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Croatian Olympic Committee receives 100 million kuna a year and from me to tell you Croatian ski alliance for example. He gets $2 million. That's not even 8% of our budget. Water polo alliance, I think, gets only 15 percent of its budget a year. So, they're not enough investments, and if someone makes them themselves, if they're lucky to have a good... Or if he's lucky he's being followed well somewhere then his sponsors are closer, but some sports unfortunately don't have that kind of luck. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the state must intervene there and I think that fellow Filipovic that this comparison about this "volkswagen" is not appropriate, because I believe that our president of the Parliament and the president of the state must have a good car, he presents us, so more so that this car that was assigned to the gentleman... It was not bought but exactly what Mr. Arabovic said the sponsors who signed the contracts with the Croatian Olympic Committee conditioned such a way of selling their cars that the president had to do it, writes here upstairs from whom he was sponsored and I think our president... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] must have such a car been in Turin five times now, so they won't go there with dots for God's sake and that demagogy doesn't need to do it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And one more thing to say is that in the last year, the Croatian Olympic Committee has also changed the amount of funds. There were 5% of the state before, pardon 95% of the state, 5% of the sponsors, and now we've already come to 15% of the sponsors, we've reduced the share of the state, and we have to go into it, and that's good, that's how. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58039	Replicate response, Honored Representative Mirko Filipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58040	So again, we caught that unfortunate "volkswagen" as a drunk float. I just wanted to say, I didn't want to demean or offend the president of the Croatian Olympic Committee of Mr. Mateš, but I just wanted to say if the Croatian boxing team could go to international competitions in their own cars to be five in one car, then I guess there was money and it would be more correct to buy one van in contrast to the money, so I'm holding boxing because I was personally in that presentation, so I know the situation, and now there's no "passat" disputed at all, nor do I think the president needs either the Parliament or the Olympic Committee to drive in the dots absolutely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58041	Honorable representative Lino Cervar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58042	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So I think that... that also coach of the current Olympic winner and sports, which was the only one in this free country to achieve two gold Olympic medals in collective sports, currently a world and fourth-placed team in the net European championship. [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] Why am I giving my colleagues and colleagues support for this new proposal of the Sport Act? [[Applause.]] First of all, because it respects and acknowledges the proposal of this Sport Act, the million population of the Republic of Croatia that is directly or indirectly engaged, leads, monitors, lives and dies through its sporting activity. This proposal of the Sport Act recognises our children, young people, all young and old and school children and students and amateurs and professionals and winners and less and more successful and individual and collective and family and persons with disabilities. There is no colleague and fellow sincerer, warmer and more emotional connection between displaced and native Croatia as well as its promotions from monitoring the approach of our athletes' behaviour and success in all parts of the world. We must give support to this proposal of the Sport Act for this reason and unfortunately, the law did not stress enough that sport is the best means to develop education, spirit, ethics and all other human values. Of course, education, science and culture are important, but mind without morals and education is a sick phenomenon. For this reason, despite all the titles of education, man today risks being exposed as a man who does not have enough morals to defend the dignity of that position. Today I have heard from an important economist at the award of certain recognitions that sports success is whether it is a single or collective sport the result of the system is unacceptable and the custom is forgeries. It's actually an excess. If we had relied on the system, we would have stopped playing sports a long time ago. All the successes of our athletes are mainly the work of individuals, parents, and those who have brought together our children and who have led by the power of enthusiasm, their ideas, driven by creativity and knowledge to the goal. To support sport means to send a message that we want a society where we sensitize the care of individuals, children and family. My colleagues and colleagues, according to an Istrian academic, are meek, it means calm and dignified athletes have suffered injustices and humiliations when, apart from the moment of the conquest of medals, they are treated as second-class citizens. Let me tell you the same thing, but not to be a critic for how I understood this new bill, and maybe it's a little bit of my remark. This law actually establishes a National Programme of Sports, which has already established the development objectives of sport for an eight-year period. Unfortunately, it will not be able to do so by the National Sports Council, which is the most responsible expert body, which is responsible for the development and quality of the structure of the entire sport in the Republic of Croatia, according to the new Sport Act proposal. In fact, the work of the highest expert body will be made aware of the follow-up of the implementation of the new provisions, the new Sport Act, which is, unfortunately, already defined under that law. And I do not agree that the Croatian Olympic Committee is in the process, not at all. Let it act since the draft 91st year in accordance with the provisions of the Olympic Charter, the Law on Sport and the Law on Associations, encourage cooperation and development of sports and sports competitions and ensure and improve cooperation in all 69 national sports alliances. The most said, I must admit, is the status of professional sports clubs or associations and the process of transforming them. I am personally confused, confused by the provisions of the law which the sports club is obliged to transform into a sports shareholder society because it refers only to football and basketball clubs, although according to the Spanish model that has been taken over and I know that because then he was a handball minister, it also applied to handball clubs. I believe it's unreal yet, we'll probably correct it through another reading, a copy of the Spanish experiences of reshaping clubs with our real reality. Real Madrid and some other Spanish football clubs as well as sports companies can have up to 500m euros in Spain and up to 500m euros in debt, like most Italian football clubs, but it is a great luxury and a big bite for us at the moment. Our clubs practically don't have property. They have debts, they have players, they have traditions, they have won trophies, they have youth schools, and I can tell you it will be very difficult to judge audit houses when the model for determining values is sometimes actually unfortunately appropriate. I simply, I hope that it will not happen what people are afraid of and say that it would not happen that players are independent craftsmen of whom the managers live and that the majority owners of these leaders will eventually become majority owners because they will turn their debts into shares and will take care of the funding already provided by the state firm and local self-government. It should be said that when most of the state's money and cookies cross exclusively certain clubs for other sports subjects, they will remain only crumbs without even talking about the fate of small sports. I believe that these initiatives, and of course in the transformation section, aim to build assumptions that our football or basketball clubs and other clubs could compete equally with clubs developed and rich in Europe. I don't know how lucky that is. I suggest because a man must not only criticize, he should suggest. It would be better to work more over the next eight years to create conditions for playgrounds, halls, stadiums, because we said 70% of schools have no halls and the production of players and training coaches. Even the Faculty of Kinesis should review their programs a little bit as to how players should be produced. I don't think we follow science enough. In the meantime, you need to find a way to resuscitate and financially... Clubs and there are about 850 of them with 700 million debt and find one perhaps more rational model of potential reshaping of sports clubs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think we should reconfirm the home competition system and all the leagues and other competitions. It'll be the best help to our sport. Of course, on a representative plan, everyone needs to be provided with collective and individual sports with optimal conditions in order to achieve top results and promote our country. I am convinced that this is the best model and strategy for the development of sports in Croatia over the next eight years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58043	Replica is a respected representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58044	First of all, I would like to express my public compliments to the great Croatian coach Lino Cervar and support his basic idea. In the context of the idea, however, there has been an implicit criticism of the concept of supporting Croatian sport and until the second and possibly third readings should be used the circumstances so that sport may be able to overcome party misunderstandings. And make this law a consensual law. And in terms of title to accept from colleague Pervan the proposal to finally get rid of Perman, I apologize. [[Intruder: Perman.]] Yes, sport and sport, it can be done by our minister so that there is no phenomenon of one playing the anthem we hold or some we hold our hands on the heart of another we hold on to the heart. So to be the Law on Sports and to try to make a great effort to adopt the idea of reducing the role of both state and policy and leaving to professional organisations in terms of which Pejo Trjecevic spoke.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58045	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Lino Cervar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58046	So I would like to thank the honourable representative and who gives me the encouragement that in Croatia we will finally come to an agreement that is not often present when we talk about national interests and even religious issues. Let it be the sport that will lead to the consent of all political parties to the welfare of our children and grandchildren. Thank you very much. [[Good job! Bravo Lino!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58047	Replica next respected representative, Srecko Ferenčak.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58048	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'm also glad that we all agree more or less about this law in this House, and I think that all the individual criticisms that are coming are aimed at making this law as good as possible. I also congratulate Mr. Cervar on all the successes he's made, following the handball team. However, what I would now like to say in my presentation, Mr. Cervar mentioned the Faculty of Kinesis. There's a Mr. Minister, so I'm gonna take the opportunity to say that they've gone there and I'm not going to say that they're almost doing anything, but I don't see any experts from the Faculty of Kinesiology that they're active in some sports club, that they've acquired their knowledge there in college and they're transferring it to athletes. I mean, Bologna is here, we're working on that college too should do a lot of work on its reforms so he can help Croatian sports a lot more than he has done so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58049	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Lino Cervar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58050	Well, I quite agree with the esteemed representative, and I believe that the Faculty of Kinesis must follow this all-taught... who currently rule the world and I don't think it's a shame to say today that I don't know enough and need to keep moving forward, constantly perfecting, because only today at a time when speed is so important without speed is today and creativity can't achieve sports results and innovation of course. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think the Chinese Faculty can contribute a lot, a lot to the successes, future successes of all our athletes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58051	Minister Dragan Primorac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58052	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If you allow me as minister I am immensely happy about this reaching consensus and in the end I would only like to say one thing. Right, my colleagues in kinesiology have given support and help in making this bill, and one among them stands here, as Doctor Scientiarum is currently making, my assistant Harasin. But also a series of other people. But I'd just like to say one thing about separation. One important thing my colleagues warned me about happened in 1.1.2005 when the Income Tax Act was made perhaps the most significant step and I would like to share it with you, which is that the status of employees in the employment relationship with athletes is changed to an independent sports worker, which means with regard to the tax of 100 kuna, if he previously paid 80 kuna for contributions and VAT and was now getting 20 is now a relationship to pay 20 and gets 80. It's from 1.1.2005. I think it's a big step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58053	Thank you. They'd break up now. For, we'll continue this debate on Wednesday. There are 39 less 5, 6, so 30 and some MPs. At 3:00, we'll be done with the vote. And now he's taking a break. The first Drago Prgomet, Franjo Arabovic, Perica Bukic and so on are ahead on Wednesday. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are continuing the session and the debate on the proposal for a law on sports. Dear Representative Franjo Arabovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58055	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. We have before us a draft of the Law on Sports, I would say one of the most important laws when it comes to Croatian sport. Thus, and a large number of officials reported for this debate confirms my thesis, and we will move in order that is the main issue of this law, some of the main points of this law. This law has passed more than 100 public debates and thus included all relevant factors in the Republic of Croatia that deal with sports from county sports associations, national sports alliances, the Croatian Olympic Committee, Croatian University Sports Federations, the Faculty of Kinesiology in Zagreb, the Faculty of Law and many other public workers and top athletes. The important thing that will change the situation in Croatian sport, which is finally the national sport programme. Which means the adoption of a national sport programme in the Republic of Croatia. This is one document that will establish a long-term sport development policy in the Republic of Croatia, which brings conditions for all forms of sports practice from recreation, recreational sports of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia to improving health, but also create conditions for achieving the top results of our athletes in international competitions. Another very important thing that this law will hopefully all of us get rid of is the adoption of a National Sports Council. I think it is one for me and the most important thing this law will solve because it will be the most professional body to appoint and resolve this High House on the proposal of the normal Government of the Republic of Croatia. The National Sports Council will not, as has been said so far, interfere in the work of alliances, clubs and the work of the Croatian Olympic Committee. It will be a professional, advisory body. This is why we have one situation today that the Croatian Olympic Committee is our roof sports association, and he has got to say in creating one autonomy, and he has lost any authority in affecting the improvement of the development of sports in Croatia. Thus, this Expert National Council will be able to reach one that can affect the improvement of conditions and preconditions for as many young people as possible to play sports. It can also help a lot, and let's be direct in the adoption and in the next budget, in all future budgets, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will be able to decide directly on the increase. Unfortunately, for sport in the Republic of Croatia today, we are only 0.3% of the budget. And I'm going to tell you just one example that Hungary has 0.6% with us saying a much bigger nation sports than any country that invests much more in sports. This law has, uh, given special attention to the kids in the sport. Unfortunately, we have one situation today that somewhere only 30% of school institutions are related to sports facilities. So, we don't have 70% of schools and there's no gym at all, and it's logical that our children, they don't have a place to spend their free time, they can't properly exercise and they can't normally take care of their health. Another problem and what we have in these halls, unfortunately, during and for the duration of school classes, and the halls are rented and directed for recreation, so that schools can raise some funds so that we can say something further. And this law right now prohibits the rental of any sports facilities during the school year and even during winter and summer holidays, which is certainly commendable. And one more thing that introduces professionals to work with children. The proposal for a law is that to the least extent, it can be a teacher of physical and health culture, and normally we all need to pay attention to special health care for children who are involved in sports. Today we have children going to competitions without even having one simple systematic examination. And one more thing, we finally got the establishment of the Croatian Olympic Committee of Deaf and the establishment of the Croatian Couple of Olympic Committees. We are at their insistence, surely the people who have worked this law in which I was involved, and they have said that let's say all the countries in the European Community, so it is logical that we too, if we are going to comply with their demands. The fourth thing this law solves is the resolution of sports buildings. We're witnessing that today most of the sports buildings are missing. Even yesterday, we did an analysis that in Zagreb a large number of sports playgrounds, buildings, near schools, near kindergartens disappeared. Intentionally used to make some shopping malls, shops, suddenly appear here. Even in two places we found that there were nickels and buildings, although the law strictly forbidded the repurpose of space. There's also been talk of a building, it's been a long time, it's a white-haired one. We are aware of the removal of "Belolasica" from the Sport Act because it enters the national sport programme and it will be of national interest to this government, as well as to all the governments that are coming. And I hope no others come. And normally, this law categorically prohibits any reuse of sports areas for any other purpose and removes any sports props from those fields. Normally, if we move forward, and it is certain that we want to, we go towards Europe, that we must also make information in Croatian sport. What is inevitable is that at any moment we know how many athletes we have, how many children we have in school sports alliances and that it is stored in one database so that at any time we can know who is doing everything and who is doing everything in Croatia sport. Finally, professional activities in sport have been resolved. Athletes and sports coaches, who can be coach, and who can be a athlete, that's very well explained in this proposal. And normally the one thing that triggered it, I would say the most interesting thing in this debate, it's reshaping sports clubs, associations in sports stock companies. And gentlemen, if we are witnessing that Croatian sports clubs should have respected the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia long ago, everyone should be in bankruptcy. So, Croatian sport b could be crossed long ago and there would be no Ivica, neither Janice nor me nor Line Cervara, or Pera Bukic, nor many others that it was done. But here, thanks to the understanding of the Government of the Republic of Croatia it is somehow I would say that I would have missed through my fingers to do so, because it couldn't have worked differently. I'll tell you that Croatian athletes, that this debt of Croatian athletes did not occur two years ago, three, four, is still being drawn from the draft of our country. So, even during the war where I personally played as a host in Porto Realo. That's 150 kilometers from Seville. I played home games there just so I could stay, a Croatian sport in Europe. With that one exceptional cost being and it couldn't possibly be justified, but we're going to keep that sport going, maintain...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58056	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58057	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58058	Replica, a respected representative, Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58059	Dear counterpart Arapovic, I respect the importance of work and everything but I think it is necessary to set the criteria for other activities in Croatia in particular in these discussions. When you said that only 0.2% of the budget is allocated for sport, I'll just say that just as much, 0.2% is set aside for science. That's the first one. Second, speaking of which, when you were talking about bankruptcy, etc. that many clubs would have failed sportingly, that many careers wouldn't have been made if it hadn't been for sports clubs to see through their fingers. Then it should also be said that none other than those politically similar companies, not a single citizen of the tax administration will forgive a single 50 kuna tax debt, and nobody here wonders how many jobs we have lost, how many careers of work, management, like these are lost, and for that we do not have such enthusiasm as sport. I mean, this push for sports is fine, I agree with that. But it is necessary not to get carried away with some things at the expense of some others who are still a little more lifelike, as jobs and as these reasonable projects and sciences.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58060	Replica reply, respected representative Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58061	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, no one will ever forgive this kind of means. .... /The speaker has shut down./... on local self-government and on cities to take over these claims and to have the right to buy first shares and to give them the opportunity to start from scratch, so that they can do business. I hope that any city, county or municipality, if it gets one club at zero, that within 5 years as far as we have determined grace period will certainly make one big shift and will begin to repay those funds. And by the way, if we had brought this Sports Act six years ago, we'd have double the amount and double the interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58062	Dear Representative Perica Bukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58063	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed representatives of the proposer, the esteemed fellow MPs. This exhibition, I will begin by quoting our prime minister's statement recently "Sport News" stressed that this law, of course, brings order to the functioning of sports clubs and organisations. Of course, the law addresses a number of other open issues, problems, and inconsistencies that today burden sports. A lot's already been said. Of course and critical, but I am convinced that essentially this law in many segments of sport action will bring about important changes, of course for the better. Also, the illusion is to expect that only the adoption of this law will solve all the accumulated problems in sport, but will certainly create preconditions for its development and progress, to finally make our sports wonder a system. I'm not going to repeat everything this law makes. A lot has already been said, but I will use this debate to stress what I think may be the biggest step in this proposal for the Sport Act. Here I am referring to the establishment of the National Sports Council, the highest expert body to take care of the development and quality of the entire sport in the Republic of Croatia. It was already during the debate at our Assembly Committee on Family, Youth and Sports that different opinions took place on the importance and role of the National Council, and by some fellow representatives, people from the Croatian Olympic Committee. But I'm convinced that regardless... The positive role played by the Croatian Olympic Committee and everything they do and, on the other hand, all the efforts of the people in the sports department in our Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, this Council should take this step forward and bring sport closer to the structures that decide on essential things related to the development and perspective of sports to all those needs and projects necessary for its progress. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And of course, with the help of all interested people to contribute to the realization of them. In the first place, I think that the funding and separation for sport, which relative to the gross social product, compared with many European countries clearly points to the incomparability of the position of sport in the Republic of Croatia. It is unfortunately not 0.2, but 0.03, and in relation to the compatibility with any country in our environment in Europe, and especially with those with which we compete, they are neither approximate. Of course, the result of this separation is data that says the number of participants and sports recreational programs, so if we ignore top sports, in Croatia only 10% of citizens. While in Western Europe, the percentage of the population actively engaged in sports is between 40% and 70%. Countries that factor out for sport and overall sports activity are not nearly as rich as they are, and not to mention that some of them are not even better at sports achievements than Croatia, on the contrary. We have an example of the most successful national alliances that are thanks to the Croatian Olympic Committee and, of course, to the government which is the source of most of these funds, under-tracked and literally Olympic programme and, of course, to the successes of the teams representing Croatia in the world, which we are all happy to do, depend literally on the understanding and goodwill of the leaders of the most successful companies in Croatia. I'm going to set an example that best illustrates today's situation. For example, the Greek Waterpolski Alliance was financed by the Greek Olympic Committee with about 2m euros, and the Croatian Waterpolski Alliance cost our Olympic Committee a dozen times less funds. For a period of ten years, these are immeasurable differences in investment and of course all of our talent with this kind of tracking doesn't give the result that we all want, and I'll say and expect. This is, of course, where I return to the beginning of the story, i.e. total investment, i.e. the allocation for sport, the budget of the Croatian Olympic Committee, the position of sport in the ministry, etc. The situation with clubs is even more difficult because care should be given to cities and counties, and we know what this ultimately comes down to. I don't think I should particularly point out I would also say the crucial role of clubs in the sport system, because without organized clubs there is no mass, and especially not top-notch sport, and of course related to the interest of those young people that we should all work together and focus on even the smallest sports engagement as an alternative to all the negative that is present today in our society. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say, with the support of this bill, once again, that we are not just talking about points here today... Sports is much more and much more important than that. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58064	Thank you. Dear representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58065	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, even on Friday and today, my predecessors mostly talked about professional sports, problems of club duty. I'm only going to talk about one part today, and that's the sport of children and youth, that is, sports at school. In the light of this law, the Proposer presented 15 reasons why it is proposed to pass a new law which, we heard from these discussions, all sports workers and athletes are expecting. The proposed law also prescribes the adoption of a national sport programme, which is a newspaper to identify the objectives of the development of overall sport. The National Sports Council is also established to provide for the development and quality of sport. Article 6 of the Law provides for the composition of a national council to have 12 members and presidents. Of the six members and presidents appointed and resolved by the Minister's proposal by this High House, I certainly think one place should be for a representative of school sports. Article 45 provides for the establishment of a Croatian school sports alliance, a body that will take care of the overall problem of sports in schools. Schools also form school sports companies that are not newspapers, as in 1995, the ministry gave guidance on the establishment and way of working and part-rounding of school sports clubs in primary schools, and a little later in high schools. Companies can be financed from the state budget, the budget of units of local or regional self-government in such a way that the financial resources are paid at the expense of schools and that is where I want to point out some of the problems that arise in practice. So far, schools from the ministry or local communities have received funds for the work of school sports companies, but they have often been spent on the maintenance of the sports hall by self-will of some directors, etc. Not for the work of a school sports society. I suggest that the exact way in which the funds are recorded in the school accounts and for which the purposes are spent is determined. A large number of sports halls, and this is what my colleague Arapovic now said, and because of the school's earnings, he rented various recreation associations, and even to private people who paid the best terms well, although there is already a guide on renting school sports halls, which a part of the school did not respect or respect him. It is therefore good that the law now lays down school sports companies have priority in using the school space compared to external users. It might be good to prescribe that priorities in the use of the halls are made by the school board, because very often it happens that the founders of schools, cities, municipalities or counties make decisions on the use of the school space without being able to decide about it by the principal, the school board, i.e. School. When I mention school sports halls and outdoor sports grounds, I welcome and bring up a network of sports facilities and hope that both the criteria and standards that need to meet those, these building facilities will finally be established. I must point out that in 91st year, the Ministry of Education and Culture at the time in cooperation with the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning, Construction of the then adopted a Regulation on spatial standards, normatives and urban and technical conditions for the planning of a network of sports facilities, but unfortunately we haven't done that yet. I hope this law allows the network to actually be created. This may also encourage some environments to engage in the construction of sports facilities because in small areas where the school is the only place of gathering, it will use not only for sports purposes but for all purposes for the citizens of the area. I have to say one example from my county that five years ago we established one rule unwritten in which we said that in every school, we would build a gym with each school. This action is almost over, the last two sports halls are being built this year. In addition to other sports activities, Article 55 states: "Sports are considered to be organised extracurricular activities and student sports activities". Sports extracurricular activities are a very important form of using free youth time. They're often neglected in schools. If the teacher doesn't have enough hours in the class regular, then he's given some teaching activities along the way, which is not good. The ministry has to change the rules on school work norms, extracurricular activities must be evaluated as well as regular classes, as this can be a good form of practice in sports activities especially in three-year schools, craft schools where students have only 35 hours of physical and health culture classes, and we want to educate healthy physical capable future masters in their crafts. The bill also sets out which persons can carry out certain professional activities in sport. This is especially important for school sport because it is now said by the saying that only highly educated people can program, carry out extracurricular school sports activities, which is good. Because these activities were carried out by people who didn't even have a training school, and I believe you will agree that a certain educational approach, especially in primary and secondary schools, is important for the further relationship between children and young people towards sport. Future athletes are raised, but fans are also raised. It is a joy to note in the public needs of sports at the national level at the very beginning that public needs are first, encouraging and promoting sports, especially sports of children, youth, students and people with disabilities. It is important because of those people, those teachers, enthusiasts who often organize in small, local areas various tournaments, sports activities during the winter or spring holidays of students. They should certainly be cared for in a way that their work and financial value. And finally, what we haven't had so far, and also fellow Arabovic pointed out, is the information system in sport that is being introduced to systematically track the situation in sport, but also to show what is done and so far has been done to sport, but unfortunately we didn't have the data and we could find it in one place. Maybe another suggestion to think about everyone who deals with sports politics. As the Law on Preschool Education and Education found in children's kindergartens, I quote: "A programme of early learning of foreign language and other programmes of artistic, cultural, religious and sports content", some kindergartens do so. I think the law should establish the obligation of the sports programme, along with the professional leadership of teachers of physical and health culture. Because unfortunately, more and more children have health problems, especially motor skills. Sure, investing in young people, in school sport, is a good basis for the future professional sport that we have talked about a lot these days, and thus preventing any form of violence in sport that we had a long discussion about last week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58066	Thank you. Replica, a respected representative, Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58067	Dear colleagues of Roksandić, most of them agree with your views on school sports, building a network of schools, sports facilities. But I would also like to warn you in this debate, given what you said the ministry would bring on one side a network of sports facilities and external and internal, related to schools. And on the other hand, it's said from the ministry that she's preparing a network of schools. We have a specific situation in Split now... where, in the place of the existing sports playground of the elementary school, permission was given to build another school. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's something that should be avoided in any way. Because if the same ministry from the same workshop, from the same house comes the network and schools and sports fields then it is unacceptable to give permission to build a school on the spot of actually the only sports field there. I don't think the laws of this situation will in the future avoid it unless there's any concrete and consistent work.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58068	Replica reply, respected representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58069	Well, look, pals, I'm really up for it, which you do, and I totally agree that a network of school, sports facilities and playgrounds and a network of schools should also work parallelly. I hope now that I have knowledge, no school can get permission and consent from the ministry at all if it doesn't exist, but still a required sports hall or sports playground. It becomes an integral part of the school facility. And what you said is probably a local community, county or city that owns that sports, or school court that approved with its plan of spatial construction. The ministry here, I believe, can't and won't be able to help. The only thing that will affect all of us in the local environments will certainly establish a network of school sports and sports facilities and playgrounds, especially the network of schools, both primary and secondary.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58070	Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58071	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, Assistant, colleagues and colleagues. The Prime Minister's opening statement last week also appeared to me most important in this Bill proposal, which is continuity compared to the previous bill that was not passed with the new provisions that have been matured over time to discuss them today. Namely, it is just this proposal for a law on sport that confirms this high, honorable home with great athletes. Here, colleague Cervar, Mr. Arabovic, Bukić, all others who have experienced how and how medals are acquired, how and how they work with young people, how and how it must be done. And so far enthusiasm would be a shame to let go, not to give up legal frameworks. It is precisely the most important part of the bill that prescribes new provisions, the same as some other laws, for example, the Island Act speaks without a national programme we cannot think about other things, and here in the field of sport. I will start with the most important, most important, national sport programme that will set development goals, and not for the period, one of the government's mandate periods, but even for 8 years to give the athletes an opportunity. Because it seems to me that this law is meant for athletes first and then for recreationals, for young people, for schoolers, but first and foremost for athletes to have a safe sports future. Because it often happens that the denials of 3, 4, 5 years to become a top athlete are still condemned later to one lethargy by those people who gave the most, and this gives one safety. And it is precisely an 8-year period so that the other government in continuity can develop sport because it cannot develop overnight. Establishing a national council as the largest expert body to care for the development and quality of overall sport. We lacked this one framework so that we could systematically monitor, so that we could systematically develop and invest in sport. Of course, what would be especially for the prominent, referring to previous speakers, especially counterpart Roksandić. What is a sport of children, youth, or sport at school, and how do you develop it? The Croatian Sports Federation, which will be financed from the state budget, will be established, but I would certainly if not a binding provision installed an alternative option to include municipalities, cities and counties in this system, even with symbolic warrants to create a truly system and responsibility and development in Croatian sport, because without ensuring the conditions for children to be engaged in sports from health care, there will be no possibility of raising good students, nor will there be any later good youth and good business people. It is certainly a lack of, for example, schools that rent their spare space to third parties, and the founder does not worry how these money could be even more monitored and used. I believe there would be one possible example to specify such a provision. The system of school medicine that has so far been underdeveloped and this law will provide an even more serious and deeper obligation for health examinations for all those involved in sports. Of course, what is currently and the legislator particularly emphasizes football and basketball is how it will be prescribed and how many debts will be delayed that are pressing sport because it has been created, it has created the belief that if there is no money that there are no top athletes mentioned here, the top athletes proved that there was not a lot of money in their sports, so they succeeded. That's why you'd be less merciful to these football clubs, professionals and basketball players, although the delay may be 5 years more objective, but I wouldn't be so friendly because once we have to say we can spend as much as we have and rather invest in those top-of-the-line sports, even if it's less mass sports than to give in some bottomless bag that's never coming back to us, yet further anatomy in society will be created. I believe that it is such a proposal that sports clubs, competition associations and delay the payment of claims from the Republic of Croatia and legal persons who are too heavy in state ownership, competition and who do not have professional status will also be given an additional option. Of course, the special newspaper that should have already entered the system of the law before, this new law states that in connection with sports buildings, the obligation of the state is prescribed, and it is only best to determine the self-government unit to bring in a network of sports buildings that determines the design, maintenance, use, management and reconstruction of sports buildings, and should in fact further specify that the construction of these school sports buildings should be standardised because often the playful architects play out and watch how much money will be spent instead of using good materials, simple maintenance structures, for the use of whose secrecy must not be 100 years but 20 years because technologies are such that they will often need and change. Of course, in accordance with both the spatial and the planning documentation, the ban on the re-use of areas planned for public school buildings and the ban on the removal or re-use of public sports works for purposes other than sports activities without the consent of the Minister in charge of sport should be further regulated. This is another contribution that units of local and regional self-government are even more responsible, and not that such certain spaces are often, for example, in the Split-Dalmatia County were quickly re-designed to build apartments because at this point the apartments are very wanted not thinking where our youth will be played, where there will be ballets, why not mention it, and not constantly destroy public sports areas because the current hit of building apartments. Especially with regard to health care, it should be more stringent to specify and determine reviews for the youth who wants to be more serious about sports. Of course, the status of a professional sports club in Article 18 may still need to be specified, despite a modern, modern, nomotechnical provision, because of the concern that the status of a professional sports club should not be manipulated with these numbers especially when those who have prescribed professional playing contracts with more than 50 licensed athletes in senior competition may need to be more precisely determined and strengthened. We couldn't find a more precise provision in the answers, but I think since this first reading is only going to be the first one to make use of the debates in order to make these specific provisions even more precise and more unambiguous. The definition and concept of the sports stock club is excellently arranged and I agree that the basic capital of the sports stock company is at least 500 thousand kuna because the provision of only financial nature can serve and make it more serious for all those who wish to engage in sports. I believe that this bill will be passed as soon as possible because it is precisely one guarantee of order, peace, that it will be able to go to school events, but also those professional ones will come and grandchildren with their grandfathers, especially at top football games, and for now we still stay at home with the kids because we are afraid of those riots that are before and during the game. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58072	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Srecko Ferenčak.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58073	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I have to correct my colleague Peronjo in his claim when he said he didn't need money for the top sports score. There's not a single top sports score without adequate financial support. That's one thing. And the other thing you said was that we were throwing money in a bag with no bottom. It is the provision of this Act that says that the debts of the state will turn into ownership of the units of local self-government by what you say and I have criticised it in this Law that it is not good, because now local self-government will again be the owner of these clubs, professional ones, and I am talking about professional clubs, and again the taxpayers will pay these debts.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58074	Honorable representative of Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58075	Thank you very much. Mr. President, gentlemen of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues! I'll stick to the status and rights of athletes in my debate. One of the variants of this law that could be seen in recent months was provided for the right of top athletes to pension, disability and health insurance from the state budget if they are not secured on another basis. This is particularly important for athletes who do not have professional status while professionals are dealt with in accordance with labour and employment regulations, so they are not interested in quality solving this problem. The original intention remained only, I quote Article 9(2), "rightly from basic health insurance due to injury to work and occupational disease according to a special regulation". What does this mean in practice, and what specific regulation of thought remains a mystery to guess at. I suggest that this provision be returned to the text of the law. I note that Slovenia has repeatedly mentioned the problem so that the top athlete has the right to pension, disability and health insurance, insurance from injuries and maternity benefits if his income does not exceed the average average personal income in the Republic of Slovenia, of course, under the obligation to behave in the spirit of applicable sports regulations and to respond to a call to the state species. The salary is received through an individual ministry as his employee. It is illogical that even a top-notch athlete for basic health insurance rights due to injuries to work does not provide funding from the state budget as they are provided to professionals. If you take into account the number of clubs in the Republic of Croatia and therefore professional persons, I wonder from which items of the budget should provide these not very small means for the insurance of professional persons. With amateur athletes, the only thing that has been decoded is the adoption of a category solution. All other rights are merely declarative because there is no mention of the way and mechanisms that a athlete can achieve and what will happen if he fails. Paragraph 4 of Article 9 states that a categorised athlete has the right to a sports scholarship that I can draw, I can pay for the Croatian Olympic Committee, county and city sports communities and clubs but it does not say that anyone has to pay that fee. And then if they don't pay anybody anything. What changed compared to the current situation? Nothing, too. Then why such a binding provision? I'm not a lawyer, but I know law isn't something you can do, it's something you have to do. It's like the law says you can walk around Maxime if you want to, and if you can't watch TV at home. Therefore, the current situation remains that funding for a scholarship in its budget is arbitraryly determined only by some cities and no one else. As far as I know, this is about Zagreb, Rijeka and Osijek. It represents a four-fold, double and even one-time average personal income in the Republic of Croatia, which are provided for in the Regulation of the Croatian Olympic Committee for I., II. and III. The category remains only dreams from fairy tales of buried treasure. In addition to the fact that scholarships only pay out the largest cities in a multiple amount than possible, they have also arbitraryly introduced an additional limitation of the right to scholarship to the age-limit, such as athlete III. Categories above 22 years in Rijeka and 30 years in Zagreb, respectively, cannot qualify for a scholarship in breach of the provisions of Articles 3 and 14. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia on respect for rights and equality before the law. The result of such a situation is the departure of quality athletes from smaller backgrounds, which often results in the shutting down of clubs and, by contrast, the concentration of quality in large cities whose clubs often have greater appetites and ambitions than real opportunities, resulting in the debt of clubs, non-payment of commitments or pre-bankrotic conditions, as Prime Minister Primorac said in his opening statement. On the other hand, we recently had a scandal in the media about pension and health insurance payments from the state budget for artists with incomes of less than 8000 kuna per month, and among them are scene makers, lighting masters and such, for which, with all due respect, I really don't know what their merits are for the Republic of Croatia and its promotion in the world. High-level athletes, especially from media unexposed sports, would for the time being only claimive rights when legally binding foreordained would often be the only source of income for further schooling, sports activities or for everyday life needs that require the commitment of a top athlete. I therefore propose that the law lay down both the single and binding minimum amounts for individual categories for the entire Republic of Croatia and that the amount of category I be paid out of the national budget, II. from the budget of the counties and III. from the budget of cities and municipalities in a 100% sportsman's amount, not that, as so far on the road from the city budget to the sportsman's account, each rips off his piece of cake, first the sports alliance, then the club, then the athlete, which remains if he stays at all. I also propose that only non-professionals have the right to a sports scholarship, given the always limited budget and the fact that professional athletes are guaranteed through their contract and are often more than the amount of sport scholarships. Article 9(6) lays down the right to scholarships from the national budget for medal winners. Given the few such athletes and therefore the negligible amount for the state budget, I ask the question of what is with the neo-Olympic bearers of world medals, is their world some other world with smaller countries and thus less competition? Is their efforts less? The answer is familiar. Of course not. It's just less media attention to these sports. The question arises why even top athletes from non-Olympic sports who are also non-profitable and media unexposed sports do not provide the same opportunities, conditions and relief. If, after a relatively simple statistical analysis, such expenditures are too much of a burden on the budget, they could be limited, for example, to gold medals at world championships but certainly for all types of sports and not just for God. Because the name itself says that this is the Sport Act, so the overall sport and its purpose must not be to give additional privileges to those athletes and athletes who already have the social status of that sport. Article 10 refers to contracts between clubs and athletes. Paragraph 3 sets out the contractual relations between the club and the athletes of the professional. I believe that the role and the level of the manager's income should also be regulated if the contract is concluded by his intermediation as well as what must be the financial situation in the club in order to ensure the reconciliation of the financial obligations arising from him to the state so that the current situation does not take place so that the athlete is paid off as well as the manager who becomes enormously rich, and the state should wait and after a few years of waiting is brought into a situation that he must forgive, under quotes the "poor poor club" debt and actually brought to a pillar of shame that he dares even mention that he owes her something. It is unfortunate that such managers can at the same time also be club officials who use functions to further enrich themselves at the expense of taxpayers and rarely bring the over-indebted club into a state of complete subjection to themselves. So then we have a situation where the club has several hundred million kuna debts, while its manager threatens and fights with the city administration's employees because they don't give him permission to build a skyscraper that doesn't fit the city's architectural unit. Let him know who he's referring to. Article 5 of the same article speaks of an amateur athlete who concludes an amateur contract with the club. However, it is not specified what it must contain, who and according to what norms will draw up such a contract and what are the minimum protection provisions for athletes and which for the club? Reading this item turns out that every single athlete has to make a contract as soon as he starts to play sports. It seems to me that this item should be completed and the minimum quality limit of which the contract is required. Examples of athletes competing at national level and beyond. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58076	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Jurkin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58077	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. In my debate, I want to connect sports, health and health care. I must mention that a few days ago, a respected colleague, Mr. Nino Cervar, said, "Politicians, let us athletes talk about the Sport Act." And that's why I'm speaking as a health care professional who for 35 years every week I stay as a sports doctor on the ground without changing the club. More specifically, all that time I've been working in the same club, which could be a sign of my incompetence but also of political stability. And I think it's just a sign of affection and love for the environment in which I live and work. And I continue to think that sport is one wonderful activity whether it's a sport that's the main goal of winning or another of recreation where the main goal is pleasure, but trust me, both are extremely connected. But if everything in sports isn't ideal, there are tragic events in your sport. So I'll never forget when a young athlete died in front of me, a footballer who started the game as a happy young man, and after one usual hit the ball with his head, fell down, and rolled and, despite the urgent medical intervention, we lost a young life. Here we now see the importance of preventive examinations in sport, as well as in recreation. And that's what this Sports Act takes care of. That's why I think where there's sports activity should be present and health care. NO athlete has a small, and a doctor, a lot, and a doctor has few. To make things worse, less and less young people want to study medicine. Why do I say that? So I'm reading article 74. The law on sport which says: "The general and special health skills are determined by an authorised doctor, a specialist in sports medicine or a specialist in labor medicine and sports. The list of authorised doctors shall be established by the Ministry of Health with the consent of the minister." I'm referring to this article to tell you the situation in sports health protection, athletes with us. I figure for 40 years there's been no specialization in sports medicine. Some time ago, about 1963, 1964, when some specializations were abolished, the specialization of sports medicine disappeared, and only 19 March 1993 was specialization in medicine and sports approved. All 8 cities in Croatia are specialized in sports medicine. And only one doctor at a time. Of which, the city of Zagreb has two specialists in sports medicine. One is retired, you probably know Dr. Krmpotić, and another colleague she finished sports medicine but deals with another branch of medicine. And I just need to point out the situation in my city. We have 70,000 inhabitants. We've got over 3,000 active athletes out of it. A few thousand recreationals and we don't have any sports medicine specialists. To make matters worse, no colleague has even started specializing in sports medicine. And I certainly know that, I've been headmaster of the House of Health for 10 years, and I'm in sports, and I have to mention that there will be big problems as far as staying a specialist on sports grounds. I think it's going to be Mr. Secretary of State during some break-in period that you're going to have to focus on specialists, undermining general medicine specialists with some kind of postgraduate or some other studies that you're going to have to determine. Fortunately, right now, we have 16 doctors on a postgraduate course in sports medicine and specialization takes four years, so maybe the situation will fix something. And if it moves any better, I'll illustrate it to you with one copy of how it's been so far. So far, so far, the lawyer who had forwards has confirmed his medical records. Well, it was a tragedy in sports. Now, though, because there was no control or anything. Even now, the doctor has his number, so it can be controlled. And today medical sports are to our great pleasure a recognised branch of medicine. The Croatian Society of Sports Medicine is a member of the European and World Federation of Sports Medicine in 1992. But for sport it is significant that he showed up before medical sports and that in time and that everything is already clear in sport. The goal of sports must not only be to win and achieve top results. The goal must only be to confirm and personal satisfaction, but also a certain reward and profit. He can't do it without it. I'm out. I want everyone to play sports. I'm glad our minister is in sports, and I think Mr. Nevio is also in sports. But I must remind you that the World Health Organization is estimated to be 2 million deaths a year because of the population's failure to move. This is where we have to imagine ourselves. In addition, sport promotes imagination, meaning the imagination of the population, and it is then passed on to many areas of society, and it is a big delusion that the more you train to achieve a better result. Ethical, medically unacceptable that the objective of training is to achieve maximum results at all costs. The talent is genetically determined and given the results of our athletes we are probably a very talented nation. But the talent itself isn't enough, and here I'm going to give you a statement from a great athlete named Paul Nurmi. I'm quoting. “The highest-class sportsman needs to go three steps in his work to get up to the top. The first is work, the second is work, and the third is work. The benefit is double. It's a pleasure and an extended lifetime, but not just that. Sports also improve the quality of life because it's not only about how long it's going to live, it's about how it's going to live." I'm sure it takes luck to live to be 100 years old. There should be ancestors who have lived for a long time, not just a good doctor. All right. I'm going back to article 74. The law on sports, and I support the proposal to determine health skills every six months. This should be done for now by doctors of medical sport with a medical license in the Chamber and must be members of the Croatian Society of Sports Medicine. Of course there's room for club doctors, for consultants, psychologists, psychotherapists, nurses, masseurs, maybe I forgot someone. Because it's not our goal, for example, to discover the greatest heart. That's where I'll be right back. There is no Zivka, there is no Crown in Split you walk one athlete who has the largest volume of heart in the world. 1150 milliliters, and.../The speaker doesn't evolve./... length 220. So that's where we're world champions. I mentioned that a little bit to break the monotony in my presentation. And in order to highlight the importance of preventive checks, which is that of hitting stamps in sports cards, I suggest, that the board of directors, this now refers to the Ministry, county and city halls, based on the contests, choose and name doctors with a license who will be the only authority in the county and the city for previous and periodic checks. And my message today is that prevention and sport is the most powerful weapon against sickness and disability and every person needs to control their health and what is important and psycho-physical preparedness, and we politicians, the government has to help them there.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58078	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Kajo Bucan. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58079	I support my colleague Jurkin and his discussion, and I would just like to relate to one of her small segments, and as regards health examinations by athletes who are in practice in clubs, in clubs in completely one non-conditional space, and for that, there are very significant funds. That's one thing. And secondly, it will be necessary to solve this amongst the period who will review athletes, because medicine sport is associated with the medicine of work as a specialization only in 2003 and the first medics of sport will be able to express themselves in 2007, and now they are starting their first course in March this month, in fact the first after graduation course where they will be taught in the post-graduate study of medical sports. That's it. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58080	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Jurkin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58081	I'm pleased that this is finally being put into order in the sports regime in sport. However, I see everything as a sport. I also maintain this attitude as a single sports arena, not like the one in Athens since 1896, the first Olympic Games, but as modern Olympic Games. There's a lot of us out there, but it's still a sport. We don't have an Olympic village, but that's why we have a great restaurant and compliments to the cooks. We also have great waiters. We also have strong health care in this House. We have 10 doctors, about a dozen doctors in this House, so when there are signs of fatigue, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, and when you do not notice it, contact us healthcare professionals to help you here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58082	Okay. The second replica of the esteemed representative, Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58083	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's what I'd sort of supplement and express this thing, express my full agreement with my colleague Jurkin in many of his presentations, and here I'm actually glad that someone and this aspect looked back on the Sport Act. I would say that when we talk about both athletes and sports, we need health care and prevention of their health to take a very, very important place. Unfortunately, I remember, and I witnessed such events on my own that the books had been confirmed before without even seeing who it was. Now the situation must have improved there, but it's still far from what needs to be. And I'd say that actually in sports often finds funds for everything else to pay, but when it's a review or when it's to pay the doctor's attention at some sporting events then there's no money for it regularly. I'd also look back here, and it says here that the general special medical ability of the students is going to work on school medicine. I would say here my one opinion that school medicine is now organized to do a preventive examination and I don't think there really is any necessary diagnostic equipment, but no education that could carry out these checks, so I think it really needs to stay in the domain of sports medicine, i.e. a specialist in medicine and sports. The truth is that until now this specialization in 2003, but we've also had postgraduate courses and education before, and I think we've been educated and able to do that. Here, once again, I would support the presentation of my colleagues and point out the importance of this segment when it comes to the Sport Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58084	Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Jurkin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58085	... prevention. [[Specially enabled.]] Yes, colleagues, it's an extremely important prevention. I have to appeal to our esteemed president of this House of Honor again. I should, I think that preventive work should be done to remove in our House the signs of chronic fatigue that often lowers our working efficiency, which reduces our quality of life and causes cellular changes within the big brain's crust, cause us to fall in motivation and engagement, inability to concentrate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58086	And I'll tell you something, learn what the replica is and the answer to the replica, so please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58087	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58088	Sports dictionaries. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58089	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, when this proposal of the government law was sent to the Assembly, someone said that this proposed law was the greatest good that could have happened to Croatian sports. However, after reading it, I think that this bill is actually the biggest deception ever made towards Croatian sport. Especially after I heard the argument, the opening argument of a respected minister who went out for a pay phone several times and talked about the bankruptcy of some sports clubs about the 800 million debts they owe to the state, about the blockades of the jury accounts, and that if we don't do something, Croatian sport will go bankrupt. Since no one mentioned the name of any club, organisation or alliance, which is before bankruptcy then I ask myself whether you might be in front of bankruptcy those clubs whose managers sell for a million, two or three, four million euros in Europe. Or maybe it's those clubs where the stadiums have riots, where the pole viewers beat each other, throw torches, and we have to send firemen to make order, and city transports in big cities after each, that sport event has been damaged by several hundred thousand kunas. Are those clubs that buy and sell results, especially if they're in the management of their bookies and bookies? Is it also those clubs that are private when they sell players, and the state when they should be rehabilitating their tax clubs, or maybe they're city or county? So I'm asking a question about what sports clubs we need to pass this law for, and whose debts do we have to assume as equity? Those who owe the state taxes, how many have won the Olympic medals? How many sports clubs that owe the state taxes won European or world champions? Or in which circuit UEFAs fall out of a further contest? How far do European rankings compete with those clubs that are bankrupt? The minister said, they're threatening bankruptcy. So what, then, I'm asking. How many companies went bankrupt in Croatia last year? How many Croatian workers went bankrupt last year? Has anyone come before this House with the law to prevent the bankruptcy of businesses and workers? Has anyone come with a bill of law to turn company property, corporate debts into state-owned shares, and then transfer them to the county and towns to save jobs? I don't remember such a suggestion. So, if the only motive of this law is saving a few sports clubs in this country, I'll vote against and I'll be against it and I'll argue that actually that part of the law is due to the pressure of the sports, part of the sports mafia. Professionalisation of sports clubs through stock companies and companies. All right. And it is finally now time to say that a football club, a handball club or any other club can be founded as a professional club, private property and the law provides frameworks. However, what did this law say about sports alliances? Where are the obligations of sports alliances? Is taking care of sports in quality, youth, development, funding, audience education, peace in stadiums is just an obligation of sports clubs, or should alliances play some role? Isn't it the alliance's obligation to say that the competition will be held by professionals and by the rank of x amateur sport? What did this law say about the role of sports alliances, their obligations and responsibilities for the development of sports in Croatia? Regional self-government units must bring in a network of sports facilities. If they want to build a small playground, they must get the consent of the Minister for Local License and secure the money. I'd like to hear it, and it doesn't say in an explanation, if anyone in the interview had done 20 mayors, say, 40 mayors of the municipalities and 10 mayors to ask them what they think of this bill in the part where their obligations are determined. What do they think about that? Does it say that somewhere in the law, the reasoning of the law? So that's all I want to say about professional sports. Amateur, competitive sport. Why are those who are amateurally involved in sports forced to do what they do and what is not good? I've tried to calculate just for my county. We have 100 amateur football clubs. In order for them to hold a competition in one competitive season with three mandatory drives, the first team, juniors, and sometimes they're called pioneers, now they're "cibans" or "apple" I don't know what it's called now, just to pay for judges and delegates. For one season in Međimurje, they must raise 6.5 million kuna for amateur football. 6.5 million kuna costs 4 judges and delegates for one competitive season. So what are those who charge enormous costs in amateur sports? Their alliances. Because you have to pay for the player's registration so every three years pre-registration, you have to pay for the coach's license, so you have to pay for the playing field license, so you have to pay for the air license, and now they've passed a regulation to imagine in one of the bare football licks in the stadiums you have to be declared, that they were right. The sound should be mounted. In amateur football county rank. How many million in Croatia will that cost? Is it someone at the ministry who knows what sports alliances, what regulations they impose, are costing an awful lot of money in amateur sports, and they don't account for anyone. And the Croatian Olympic Committee is helpless, the ministry is helpless, we are helpless, and they have to pay for it, and then we say they have obligations outstanding in the jury account. Well, of course! What will the application of this law mean for them, Mr. Secretary of State? All amateur clubs will have to register again, reregister. They'll have to reregister all players, they'll have to get licenses, they'll have to license stadiums and playgrounds. You know how much this is for an amateur football club of county rank? 16 thousand kuna. Applying this law, according to the current model of organization, 16 thousand will cost them to register according to this law, an amateur football club. Recreative amateur sport has remained hanging in the air because money is provided by only good people if it makes sense. School sport. I assure you that so far the regulatory system has not been a problem, the problem is money. The ministry is neither now providing money for school sport, especially if you look at standards and curricula. And I end up next, for the sake of time. This law, this bill, Mr. Secretary of State, I read together with the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, together with the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, with the Law on Community Economy, the Law on Water Economy, the Law on Construction, the Law on Income and Profit Tax, the Law on Fundamental Education, the Law on Secondary Education and the Law on Preschool Education. When you put these laws together with this bill, then you'll understand why I'm telling you, you haven't even made a millimeter of steps to secure more money for amateur competition sports, recreational sports and the development of school sports. The only thing you've done is give your ownership stakes 25% of the shares of failed football and other clubs to counties and cities that will resell it. It'll be the only effect of this bill, and that's why I won't be able to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58090	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Lino Cervar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58091	Mr. President, this gentleman from the ministry, I think, distinguished representative, I mean, I can't think I really need to correct the incorrect assumption that it's a delusion of Croatian sport. I cannot agree with that, and I cannot agree with this debate, it is a little bit of a bloat of discrimination, polarisation among athletes, for those who are for sport and who are not for sport and discrimination against amateurs and sports professionals, which is also wrong. And I here as a sports worker can tell you as a politician in a certain way and I think it's important to know, that it's true that anyone who deals with sports wants to be a winner. That's right. But it doesn't play to gain power and power over another man, it's very important to understand and that's the difference between us athletes and trade unionists or politicians and anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58092	Replica, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58093	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed esteemed colleague Lesar, speaking of managers, has forgotten one fundamental part. Managers buy cheap first so they can sell, so that's what it's about. Because sports managers, unlike other managers, are very capable and few of them will fail at their loss. But you've opened up well, but you haven't located the problem until the end. The problem is that the rule of law does not work here and does not take what the state belongs to. It would be interesting to get a report from the Ministry of Finance and see how top Croatian athletes, whether or not they pay taxes. To get a report from the Ministry of Finance so that we can see these many large transfers within Croatian sport, how much of it was taken by the state. That would be really interesting to see, and then there would be a lot of good indicators that could serve the Government's proposal for a second reading, and that these things would not only be located but sanctioned and that the state would take what should be taken. I don't mind having a capable manager come up with a cheap football player and sell it expensively after a few years, but the thing is, he doesn't just put it in his pocket, he gets the club from it, but the state gets what it belongs to him. That's why I'd like to see such reports from the Ministry of Finance, let the Financial Police and the competent authorities determine that, and we'll have a lot of parameters for an even more high-quality law on the final proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58094	Replication response, the esteemed representative of Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58095	Thank you very much. My colleagues, Perry, I will answer as a proud man who was a unionist and feels still, someone is proud of his sports career, someone at his union and trust me to be proudest of it, that part of his life.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58096	You have a replica on...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58097	It's just that my colleague Kovacevic said that I was simply saying things that I can't understand. That a sports club sells players for two million euros and then tomorrow I read in the paper that the club owes 300 million kuna to the state of taxes. So how is it possible now that you're a state when you transfer and, because that 2 million euros has been paid through a jury account? How come the state didn't pay its dues? That's why I was talking about deception. If it was sold by managers, then the same goes through a jury account, so you'd see how much tax is charged on that transfer, and it would really be good for the Ministry of Finance to get that data to how much they charge to the manager for the sales of sports players that we finance and whose development we finance from the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58098	Second replica, Honored Representative Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58099	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd replicate to Mr. Lesar when he mentioned managers in sports. Mr. My dear Sports Managers, they have their maths everywhere in the world and work on one principle. There is no difference between the manager in Croatia and the manager anywhere. So buy a young player, bring him out of Brazil, make him a player and sell him out somewhere. Unlike the manager who was at the Rijeka Bank, unlike the manager who was at Victor Lenco, it's a very different job done than in these other companies. So no one said anything about forgiveness. So we have a five-year grace period for county and cities, local self-government, if it's a positive business, there's a possibility that they can get their money back. There's no way we can declare bankruptcy tomorrow. There's nothing the state can charge for again. Nothing. And as far as I'm concerned, you said alliance. Be careful if the Croatian Olympic Committee is the ultimate roof body to sport, so it is itself an alliance, and alliances must be series with clubs. And unfortunately, it's all twisted with us, too. Today to compete, you must pay the alliance. So he pays the state through the Olympic Board, and he gets paid by clubs from a source of local self-government. So this law is just trying to solve this system and the very information in sport, that you will know the transfer of money. So, where does that money go and why clubs have to pay the alliance, and alliances exist to keep clubs functioning and prescribing rules. But what I said was an ugly word, a mob in sports. I think the mob in sports is interested in not getting this law to live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58100	Replica reply, Honorable Representative Drago Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58101	I am extremely pleased that you have seen exactly this problem of the alliance that I have spoken of and I claim that this law and this problem is not resolved until the end. They're a problem, and that's why I'm saying this bill of law, this problem that you've seen, unfortunately, will not be solved. He will continue to remain because it is the alliances that will shape the future of sports in Croatia, not the Croatian Olympic Committee, not this council that is planned. You are prisoners of the alliance as soon as you enter the competition sport. I didn't mention managers. I used to talk in clubs when they sell players. The word manager in the debate didn't even mention it. What's private transfer and private contract is one other thing. I speak in clubs, I speak in clubs. Only half the sale was, the manager stayed at the clubs. And you resent my word to the Mafia. I'll do it again. I believe that in Croatian sport there is a group that is mobsters, which is linked to all black sources, funds, bookies and results settings. ... Unfortunately, unfortunately, it doesn't solve, exactly. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Because he should be banned from being at the head of a sports society, that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58102	And the third replica, the esteemed representative of Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58103	She wonders, Mr. Lesar, what clubs are these and how much do they owe? So, according to Mr. Church's July 2000 standoff, we're going to mention that Dinamo then, according to the former finance minister, had a debt to the state of 303.2 million kuna. Hajduk 192.5 million kuna, Osijek 54.4 million kuna, Rijeka 47.3 million kuna. A total of 4 clubs had a debt of 577.5 million kuna. We paid VAT, income tax, income contributions, etc., taxes. But what is fantastic, today the minister is talking about 700 million kunas of outstanding liabilities and how it did not increase from 2000 to today. I claim it's much more realistic, closer to the truth, a billion-and-a-half figure than 700 million kuna. Mr. Lesar wonders how many companies went bankrupt in the Republic of Croatia. In the last 16 years, at least 4,000 companies have completed liquidation procedures, losing more than 100,000 jobs. The reshaping of clubs, gentlemen, is not possible. These debts, these dubiosis, 300, 500, 200 million kunas can only be washed through bankruptcy. And the next day, even if someone will say zero kunas, the clubs are assigned to a local self-government that can't even take care of general hospitals. Where are they gonna be about clubs? It's simply not possible, and I'm so afraid this law can hardly live.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58104	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58105	I'd like to thank my colleague Cain for bringing back the data from a few years old. I can, and I don't have to believe in authenticity, I asked for official information. Official source, official records, a list of clubs and the amount of debts. Because he's been in the Parliament for 20 years, so he better remember it from me. And it is right that the proposed model for reshaping sports clubs really provides an opportunity, opens up a great danger that the same procedures as any crime in the transformation of the economy will happen in sport. And that's why I'm against reshaping, which is why I'm asking those who are facing bankruptcy to go bankrupt and start tomorrow according to the law, according to the new model of the law as private stock companies. And let them go that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58106	Dear Representative Ivan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58107	Dear Mr. President, state secretary with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, to say right at the beginning, I welcome the adoption of this law. Congratulations, Minister and Associates, on your determination. In the adoption of this Act, it is also evident from the debate that all committees and clubs have supported the adoption of the Law along with, of course, some objections and the vast majority of MPs so far who have discussed other than the two, but thank God for nothing and disagree with nothing, so we do not need to worry so much about them. It is particularly good that all athletes who are top athletes and sports workers in this House, and there are plenty of them, support the adoption of the Law with some suggestions regardless of the political option, which should certainly be respected as by Mrs. Perman, Bisserke. And certainly the Ministry will until the second reading of these remarks, which it considers to be good, will be included in the final proposal of the Law, and knowing the work of the Ministry will probably be so and it is good that the Law is not adopted by an urgent procedure but goes into two readings. And because of its importance, its abundance, and its interest. We must also acknowledge that the current Sport Act has not offered appropriate solutions. Like, Croatia does not have a national sport programme, Croatia does not have the highest professional body for sport. In the Republic of Croatia is not a quality defined system of sports that makes up natural and legal persons. The sport at the school has no satisfactory location and quality solutions in the current legal regulations, the major problem of the sport of the Republic of Croatia is the negative business of sports clubs, associations and those who said by colleagues Kajin and Mr Lesar, as well as many others who are not listed here, which are concerned by local self-government units, sponsors and all others. The total resources allocated to sport in the Republic of Croatia from the state level are small, but they are as small as the country that came out of the war could invest at the moment and I am almost sure that we will all, together with the adoption of the state budget in the coming period, be determined to be greater and at least 0.6% of GDP as in Hungary or Slovenia. A new bill prescribed by law... new provisions that will significantly improve competition and sports recreation in the Republic of Croatia, I will only list some. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As the adoption of the National Sport Programme, the National Sports Council as the highest professional body, precisely determines the physical and legal persons in sport, the sport of children and youth is arranged, i.e. sport at school in a way to establish a school sport alliance, provide children with sports facilities in sports halls as a priority in front of sports clubs, the status of the rights and obligations of categorized athletes with a special emphasis on resolving the status of athletes in the education system, the right of categorised amateur athletes to certain financial benefits, scholarships, etc., the right to subsidy of tuition, the bill also determines that sports clubs also consider sports associations to compete with the status of associations and sports shareholders who have the status of a company. The promoter has transferred the transformation model from Spanish and often complains here why we use something under other conditions that we are not so smart to invent our own, so I personally think it's good to apply the model somewhere where it works well, and in Spanish years it works well and I don't think it's necessary to invent warm water ourselves, if it's already leaking somewhere, but to direct it to us with some splinter. Jobs considered to be professional sports activities and professional persons in sport and conditions that must be met by professional persons for sport, whether it is a sports coach, a person trained to work in sport, a sports judge or other employees. I particularly commend in the section of the law on sports buildings Article 69(5) in the procedure of issuing a local authorisation for sports construction by a body issuing a local authorisation shall obtain the opinion of the Ministry in accordance with the conditions set out in paragraph 4 of this Article. It is also very important that the new law prohibits the re-use of sports grounds intended in the spatial plan of sport land, re-use for other facilities, so often we wanted to say economically, they did not end up for economic purposes without the consent of the minister and I think it is very good. I also believe that in the part of the financing of the new law under the obligation created by the state with this Act it is necessary and to install the obligations of the local self-government unit in the financing of amateur sport, school sports sport, because so far, we know from experience it was different from the case to the case, but it also needs to be kept in mind that the funds of the units of local self-government, their own resources, and not the transferred funds that units of local self-government service for pre-determined tasks that must be done under the law. In Article 70, point (a) is The Croatian Parliament in the adoption of the National Sport Programme establishes a programme for the construction of sports buildings of special interest for the Republic of Croatia. Certainly good, certainly of interest for athletes, not only for athletes but also for the entire Croatian nation, and also for the economy. I would like to point out that Croatia has the only Croatian Olympic centre, the Croatian Olympic Centre "Belolasica" which was also an object of special state interest in the old law and, at this time, thanks publicly to the commission appointed by the Government, the Ministry and the Government for gaining power, primarily the funds and decided to build, further construction of the Sports Olympic Centre "Belolasica", for now 100 million kuna in the construction of the pool, in the construction of the hall and what is most important for... The trail will certainly be used by top athletes, as well as the wider population involved in recreational sports. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And maybe something I haven't heard here yet that someone said, and that's funding the training of athletes. So far, our top athletes and often small amateur clubs have gone abroad to prepare and spend taxpayers' money. In my view, I believe that the preparation primarily of top athletes, Olympics and athletes who participate in world championships when we create the conditions for their preparation in Croatia would be an obligation financed from the state budget whether through national sports alliances or through the Croatian Olympic Committee it is an obligation to make such preparations in the state of Croatia because they are paid by state taxpayers in Croatia anyway when we create these conditions. If someone has a sponsor and wants to prepare outside, they can't even ban it, but what the state is funding, I think it's necessary that the preparations of our Olympics and our participants at the World European Championships are in Croatia, and then here and there in that part and the Croatian Olympic Centre "Belolasica". My colleague Lino said that athletes would talk more about sports, so here I am as a politician finishing up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58108	Thank you very much. It is Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58109	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I've often asked myself a question, and now I'm asking it here to all of us, and otherwise it's a question I'd like to know the answer, which is what we all need to pursue. So the question arises why young people of equal or similar opportunities and talents have a completely different walk through sport. Some reach sports peaks, and some experience sports disappointments. I don't think there can be an answer in luck or a case. I dare say it's not a matter of effort because it implies that any goal can be reached. So I'd like to maybe look back on the crumbs, given that we have this bill of quality. the value of sports and sports activities as such. What am I talking to? It is known that some coaches and clubs are producers of talent and some unfortunately are not. So people have almost the same conditions, the same opportunities, the same circumstances, but some succeed, some fail, some don't produce, so they don't end up with their goal. I would, in fact, like to define in a certain way, before I look directly at the National Sports Council to which I would like to attribute and address this issue in a certain way, what it is in my opinion, which should be that quality or quality in sport, or how it should be improved. Quality, quality of sports procedures and procedures is a difference in the quality of sports procedures that could be achieved under optimal circumstances and those achieved. Where did I actually get this? It is known that certain segments do not know any activities can actually be borrowed from others, so for example I do not know iso standardisation etc. from the industry transferred to medicine. It is not true that medical activity or medical care regardless of education, regardless of the conditions in which people work and quality. Thus, in the world, for 50 years, people have followed the quality and care and promoted it. In my opinion, this element could be implanted in sports as such. I therefore believe that the National Sports Council should already have its nine points to deal with in order to install and monitor, monitor and improve the quality of sport. So it would be in a certain way an institute that would ensure that all those involved in primary education or training young people actually do so in a way that they actually do all those procedures, all those procedures with a goal of good for young people who are where they are. When it comes to the national sport program, I hold it in my own kind of strategy for the development of sport and I believe that this is a very important segment of this law. Individually, I would now just look back at a few of these articles where I have some ambiguities or where I think maybe it could contribute and improve them. Article 9 regulates the questions of the rights of athletes and then lists everything the athlete should have, which should be secured, to which he has the right. It's precisely because of what I was talking about or about quality as one where you can't separate coach and sports, they're one team I'd say. So, a team in the sense that even a athlete can do without coaches or coaches without athletes, then it would be good if even coaches had all those rights that athletes have and they're not supposed to be here. On the other hand, when it comes to Article 10, he regulates wages, etc., he wouldn't go into it right now, there's certainly a lot of people more competent than me. However, I cannot understand that, for example, a certain alliance, such as basketball, allows a player to break his contract with the club if he is not paid only after the end of the season. I believe that this is very incorrect and incompletely resolved and that actually if someone wants to be a professional club and if they have that intensity then they must take care of their rules of procedure and the athlete is an employee and can't be paid for the whole season until then step away from it. Therefore, this should be resolved and I believe that this bill is actually a proposal for a law to strive to do so and that it will do so. When it comes to Article 11, which defines the question of trainers, etc. I didn't see that there was actually a difference, a distinction between a coach who wants to do a professional job and an amateur coach. So if we've already figured out between amateur athletes and professionals then I think it would be very important to decide here. It's not the same if someone's doing something else and then they're still training someone, or someone's young, perspective, committed to their job, and they want to coach, they want to be a professional trainer. If he wants to do so, he needs to do so and enable him to do the job in the end in a way that enables him to carry out the job as an independent activity. So I keep it very important. In the case of health care, which is regulated in Article 74, I think it would be good to complete this article or to advance it with a small sentence where it would be in the context of this health care to actually provide for the prevention of sports injuries. It is known that sports injuries are one big accident that very often very young, very talented athletes separates into shorter, longer time or whole life. Recently there was a very useful conference in Zagreb on this topic. So, prevention of sports injuries is actually science one special I would say discipline within coaching and medical sciences as such and should give it even more importance and I think it would be good to fit into this item. Then, when it comes to doping then it's very clear here everything is said but it might be good to mention that word of prevention again how to actually deter people from doing it, so how to explain it to them and indicate that actually this doping is as harmful as it is, not just prohibiting it and treat it in connection with it. I think Article 13, I'm going back very shortly to mention the judge but it's not mentioned anywhere or I've overlooked the delegates. I think they must be defined, too, and I think that would be a significant improvement. Finally, sport is an activity of particular interest to Croatia. The middle, as Mr. Minister here has said, which has no sports choice is not an attractive environment. Therefore, our support absolutely of this law and we see it as one of the instruments of achieving this. We have seen in this introduction of this law that Croatia does not have a national sport programme so far, that there is no Paralympic Committee, that there is no systematic solution to the question of sports, children, youth, etc., how so many resources are allocated and that is very little for sport. However, Croatia would say in all recent competitions the right sports power. What does that mean? Does this mean that all these disadvantages are the advantages of Croatia? Apparently not. It's just that they're a big opportunity. So this government recognizes this, and this Law wants to make this all right and to improve in order for Croatia to actually fast even bigger and more, and even greater reach in sport as such. Finally, a very important element was said here by counterpart Lino Cervar that sport is actually of general our national interest because it also best connects abroad and abroad Croatia. I would conclude by living, living and enjoying sports and aiming for sport to be available to everyone with a password: "Sport for All." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58110	Thank you very much. We have one replica. Mr. Representative Sima Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58111	Thank you very much. Well, a respected colleague has touched a very important subject, but I don't think he's worked it out. It's professionalism and amateurism, which is in sport. So he specifically pointed out and put it in context, coaches, right? I have to say what I can say from some experience and knowledge, and maybe I'm too close to understanding the concept of professional and amateur I couldn't say for anyone or rather tell any coach in Croatia that he's an amateur. Let's just say when I was mayor, all these coaches, coaches who ran certain sports clubs in town, everyone had more pay than the mayor or better to say "receive." And now I actually see the basic problem here. There's no enthusiasm in sports anymore, and we need to be clear about that. And let's say for this school sport and the position of that school coach, this body culture teacher or whatever it's called, his position is, in fact, crucially determined, determined by the mass of children and the way children are gathered. Although perhaps in another reading you should take care of this Law to define more clearly the position of professionals and amateurs because what is in one amateur sport in the other is a professional. So you have a situation like this: let's say a coach in a football that's an amateur has twice as much income from a coach who's a handball coach and who's a professional. That's, say, some vagueness and some irregularities. Because that's how we agree or there's no discrimination in sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58112	Thank you. Answer Mr. Bagaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58113	Thank you. My colleague Lucin thinks that this replica is entirely in place, or this answer, and I am just thinking this, so I agree with you that there would be no misunderstanding, but I think that actually the way out in this matter or in finding the best possible solutions should be sought really within this law that should work out this matter to the end and when it comes to the amateur and professional part. Just when I was talking about that part, I thought that young people, young people who want to be coaches, but who want to tie their life to a coaching job now, don't wait, I don't know how to deal with 5 things, so if one day a good coach is born in them, they should be able to do it. We need to support them in this, and the other thing is, this is a question different from the middle to the middle and from sports to sports. I therefore believe that this law is actually a good basis for answering this very important question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58114	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Slaven Letica's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58115	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Secretary of State, first of all, I'd like to apologize for my honesty. I may also have been overexpected because both counterparts Bukic and Arapovic told a lot of pleasant stories about preparing the law a little more. So first I'm going to evaluate the pure professorial proposal of this law. I'd say that's a grade enough and I'd say sit down enough. So that law is so badly rated because of my respect for the Ministry from which it comes. I'm a minister and a state... They belong to the category of top senior state officials and I expected a more serious Sport Act to be prepared. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What does that mean in a specific case? In particular, this means that until the second reading, when given such a passing enough grade, something more serious should be done to present or bring these parliamentary representatives closer to the experience of a great theoretical sport. Today, if you walk any better bookshop in Zagreb, you will find a lot of economics, sports, sports legal textbooks, psychology, sociology of sports and so on. You will have comparative views of European sports models and systems. I would suggest that the proposal for a law in the second reading be given to the translation of the European Charter of Sports of the Council of Europe, adopted in 1992 and revised in 2001. This will be useful especially when introducing conceptual and conceptual discipline in the introductory parts of the law. Then what is called the European sport model should be given. These are European Commission documents showing different models of sport organisations in Europe. I will return to this by mentioning the proposal here by Peja Trčević to think seriously about returning Croatia to the Central European tradition of sport organisation where it is not the Croatian Olympic Board roof organisation because there is today only one country in Europe that has an Olympic board as a roof organisation but to return to the confederation of sports alliances, that the Olympic Committee has its normal function in organising and promoting Olympic principles and sports organisations. As far as the paradox itself is concerned, if you read these 15 reasons why the law is passed, then you come to the conclusion that an outrageous sports miracle is actually happening in Croatia. Of the 15 laws, everything is evil and upside down. No strategy, no programs, no school sports halls, no money, no TV that monitors sports, and yet there are top-notch achievements in skiing, tennis, football, handball and me, I am kind of glad that such unregulated sports can have or lead to fantastic results. And that excessive regulation could destroy such a spontaneous sports movement in Croatia. Now I'm going back to the structure of the law. I think the second reading should change everything upside down. Don't start with a national sports program that doesn't mean anything. The Croatian sports strategy or the Croatian Sports Council could be talked about eventually. And to put an end to it, I don't see at all the need for those two institutes to exist. We have a Resorb Ministry, we have a parliamentary committee, we have a Croatian Olympic Committee, we have national sports, we have too many institutions. Those 12 magnificent ones will be elected according to political criteria. It will introduce a few smarter or more influential sports veterans and nothing important will change. I would therefore start the law from a clear definition of concepts that is unclearly defined in this law, and even that I will show on one example the extremely offensive and should hurt both Franjo Arapovic and Lina Cervar and Perica Bukić, and even a colleague of Josipovic. I'll do that on one example. So, you should define what sport is, which is a athlete, a sports club, which is a congratulatory game or fair play and from these bases start going towards what's the point of sport. The essence of sport is one primal need of homo ludens so man to play, to compete and purpose or send sport is not as closely defined as is defined by this law. I'll tell you in Article 1 this is how you define what sport is. The sport within the meaning of this law says that I stress the physical activities of organising to achieve the sports achievements that are achieved according to established competition rules. That's offensive to every athlete. If you go to the Charter of European Sports, then you will see that sport is defined as physical spiritual and emotional activity. This spiritually and emotionally makes sense because there is no reduction in sports to physicality would never allow Lina Cervara to win the Olympic Games, because it is a willing element, which is a psychological element, which is a head element in relation to the body crucial. Starting from here, the entire sport is being reduced. I would once again return to the definition of the Council of Europe and the European Commission, which sees sports sending in much larger functions. It mentions some of these functions, though. It's promoting health or socializing. There's nothing in the law about a nursery or an oasis of sports life. There is not a single word about the role of family on the creation of athletes, although the crucial role is especially for families in Croatia, the Ivanišević family, Šimenc, Kostelic, I do not know Bukić, Cervar, there is no Cervar yet great in the third generation of achievements and Ljubicic and others. Another group of peers. So when it comes to the real problems that should be to encourage, it's not the 15 reasons that are listed on page 2 and 3, but it's the reasons that I'm going to state here. The first is the tycunisation and commercialisation of sports that can only be radicalized by this so-called "in my opinion" also by the national offensive mention of the Spanish model. There is a European sports model that Croatia has always been an organic part. But what is important is that there is a Croatian sports tradition and we must promote the Croatian sport model. What are the basic characteristics of this Croatian sports model? The first is the right to engage in sports that is not institutionalized in law at all as a law. The right to practice sports means the right of every citizen of Croatia to have fair access to public sports facilities. The tycunisation and commercialisation of sports will take place in the transformation of these sports quasi of elite plants into lossful plants that will move into the ownership of local self-government institutions. They will only gain losses, and the consequence will be that no land ownership issue of what I think is unreasonablely called sports buildings has been resolved. It is much more correct to talk even about sports facilities, because sports fessilitis means a lot more than sports building. So the question is whether someone who becomes the owner or through the shareholder assembly will privatize it and convert it as it happens today into non-sports facilities. All in all, I'd say the next thing you know, I'm running out of time. We should create an alliance for sport in this House of Highs that is far more important than the Alliance for Europe. Everything should be done to rehabilitate the role of the family and to help the family. If you see only rewarding in sports it's completely perverse to me. You have even incentives in agriculture, and in Croatia you only have ex post award. So while Ante Kostelic and the children were in the mountains, eating bacon no one even looked at him, and now the state needs to give him money under the law. What's he doing with that money today? Therefore, things should be put completely upside down, and since I have a deep faith in the wisdom of this ministry, I think it's just one unnecessary surface in the preparation of this law, and if I have to, I'm going to put you on the disposition of one part of the literature that I have in mind until the next reading is done much more seriously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58116	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, members of the delegation and president of the Grand National Assembly of the NJ are present at this session of the Croatian Parliament. E. Mr. Bülent Arinc, so please warmly welcome them. Thank you. [[Applause.]] We have several replicas on this exhibit. First is Mr. Representative Franjo Arabovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58117	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much, Mr. Professor, for your two, knowing you as a very strict professor, and I think the first reading two is fleeting, and we have time to correct. Yeah, a good two, and we got time to make it right until the second reading. And I'd look back at those 15 points you said were catastrophic. We can evaluate it any way we want, but it's really and truly the condition. Nothing has been added here or taken away, but it has been written down what the current situation in Croatian sport is. Your theory that you have now presented about improving sports is let's say perfect to listen safely, and it's very difficult to apply. I'm gonna go back to my elementary school, too. I had a theory and a practice of self-government socialism. The theory was phenomenal, but practice was nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58118	Thank you very much. Answer to the replica Mr. Representative Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58119	You see, you don't mention the most important, I thank you first of all for the replica. The biggest crime against Croatian sports was committed by selling the third TV programme to RTL. If one important element of the Croatian Sports Alliance is needed, it would be the creation of a Croatian sports programme, and that if you want it not to be called HSP, you can call the Croatian Sports Network because 60 to 80% of the money in Europe today comes from television rights, and we achieve two, three percent and the law does not regulate the right to negotiate whose incomes. Today a marketing system has been created so that I as president of an alliance, if the president of the Olympic Committee contracts below the price some global sponsorship does not have any negotiating opportunities. Therefore, the areas for improving this law are enormous.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58120	Thank you. Second replica, Mr Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58121	I can agree with a large part of the exposure of fellow Letica. I think he spoke inspiredly and interestingly of many important aspects of sports. However, I think it is likely to encourage a personal bad experience as a sports worker. I may say, on the basis of this experience, he questioned, or marginalized the position of the Croatian Olympic Committee. He marginalized as I believe that even in a certain sense, the role of the Croatian Olympic Committee may be underestimated in the law itself. What do I mean? I mean, the olympic movement and the olympic movement of synonyms became synonyms for sport. Today, the Olympic Charter is a fundamental act of the International Olympic Committee, and the International Olympic Committee is the most powerful association in the world with the United Nations. It brings together 330 sports and non-sports organisations, institutions, associations. 202 national alliances, which means more than the United Nations has, how many, 191 members, 72 sports international alliances, and if we want international, organisation of the United Nations or at any session, do not fail to discuss the Olympics. So that's the mandatory agenda point. I think the olympics have now covered up a much larger amount of space than what was originally at the time it was formed. So it includes peace, it includes fighting all forms of addiction, against poverty, against disease. I would like to say that if we disagree with the way the Croatian Olympic Committee works, we should not just seek a substitution for its role elsewhere in the world.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58122	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Slavic Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58123	My colleague Vidovic didn't understand what I was talking about. So I did not question the Olympicism, the Olympic movement or the Croatian Olympic Committee. I was just saying that the creation of the Croatian Olympic Committee, the roof sports organisation, was made a historical discontinuity. Because in most parts of Central and Western Europe, confederations or alliances of sports alliances are organisational form. And the Olympic Committee is part of the Olympic movement and it cannot be brought into question. And that's the big problem. And of course, today you have one paradoxical situation, on the Croatian Olympic Committee you have 175 employees, and in Austria you have 5.6 people. I don't want to talk about wages.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58124	Replica, Mr. Representative Lino Cervar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58125	So I'd point out one part of Professor Letica's debate that I'm holding is to be incorporated into the bill, which is to say that sport should be regarded as something that refers to a whole man, not just his physicality. Sport develops in man his personality and shows that through perseverance and work can come to great value. After all, the Olympic Charter itself says: "Olympism combines sport with culture and education. Sports and education play a fundamental role in building a person and acquiring a profession.". I think that's indivisible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58126	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Slavic Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58127	I agree with my colleague Cervar. How could I not agree with Mr. Cervar? That would be offensive to any of us. What I propose to the legislator to institute minimum sports skills for Croats. As a minimum sports standard, it means that children learn at least a roll forward, back, breathe properly, run, one game, swim. The minimum sports standard, because we're going towards a society that you, some of you have never seen, and that's the American society that threatened children who can't walk, who can't climb. It was easy while Arabovic was down in Drnis. He could jump, in Mostar, he could jump off a tree down and not break his leg. Somebody get his kid and my kids to jump, and we'll see what happens.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58128	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Happy Ferenchuck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58129	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I would like to say that in the most part I agree with Mr. Letic in his presentation and in one non-political way he pointed out the right things that must be fixed in this bill, all for the benefit of athletes. Mr. Bagaric also had an extraordinary exhibition. I like it personally. However, what I would like to say and pollomise with Mr Letica is this very part of the Croatian Olympic Committee. If we're going to do a new association of sports alliances now, what are we going to do? We will create another association that will be between budget funds and athletes. There will be hired some people who will eat part of the budget money that should come to athletes. Croatia is a small country and the Croatian Olympic Committee correctly performs the task. So there is already one infrastructure that can carry out that part of the transfer of money to alliances, and take care of the Olympic movement and the great international... Well, I don't think this is a bad solution for Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, it's a matter of controversy what we can talk about, but I think it's good for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58130	Thank you very much. Answer, Mr. Slavic Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58131	There is also an assembly of sports alliances in the existing institutional structure. It wouldn't be hard to separate it and it would put rationality into that system. Moreover, in some ways Croatia would return to tradition. What could be minimally done until the second reading to propose alternatives and to do a benefit analysis of both systems.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58132	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58133	Well, I think that fellow Letica pointed out one very important thing, which is availability, equal availability of sports facilities, and equal opportunity for all citizens to play sports. We're getting a little nervous about where our professional clubs are, right, so now we're worried about how they're gonna pay some debts, so we're worried about how they're gonna comply with some conditions. Because every year, for example, the Croatian Football Federation, taking over from UEFA's new criteria, you must have new investments. And now we're worried about how we're going to make them artificial grass, how we're going to make them new reflectors, how many wolves there's gonna be on that artificial grass, and on the other hand, since we're hiring in professional sports so much money we don't have the money to build children's playgrounds for existing sports, we don't have the opportunity to build halls, playgrounds for new sports. So, first of all, citizens can deal with sports. So, I think the same thing is that until the second reading this law should be extended to this second part, not the fate of professional sport. Professional sport should be in the interest of sponsors and club owners here, not the public interest, so the interest of budget money should be stimulated as much as possible to encourage, sponsor, donate to sports clubs, school sports clubs, as well as to enable the construction of new sports facilities. Unfortunately, this obviously cannot only be solved by the Sport Act because a government water contribution regulation has been passed where, unfortunately, in the future, you will have to pay water contribution on every square metre of new sports ground. So that playground for kids in every place, on every local board. When you build a volleyball court in the sand, which is not some investment, you will have to pay 15 kuna per square metre. I think that this law should contribute to making it possible for sports facilities to be built and that amateur sports is available to all citizens and that we encourage them to engage in amateur sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58134	Thank you. Mr. Letica's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58135	I am glad that the idea of right to sport is accepted as one basic idea, that Croatia could take one step, there is the right to education, to work, to health etc. You're right to lose sports, so there's not one at least article on street sports. Kids can't show up on the street today. Someone can rip them out of their ears. And as for the roles in the discovery of talented athletes, none of them will ever discover from this National Sports Council of the Croatian Olympic Committee, but a teacher in elementary school, some peer, some old friend and finally need to rehabilitate the role of athletes as a role model, here I see a seminar on Easter is held in this sense, to use these athletes because they have the biggest problem, and this is the transition from active sports phase to sports retirement. Many get lost, end up in cafes, in pubs, many have problems with post-traumatic stress disorder. If we can use them, it would be a big win for Croatian sport.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58136	Thank you very much. Let's move on. It's Mr. Sima Luchin's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58137	Thank you very much. This law has the nerve to tell a special history and it belongs to a group of laws or issues which could be freely said to prey on special public attention. This is somewhat understandable for a simple reason, a large number of citizens are interested in this problem whether as active participants in sports, whether as viewers, therefore as observers, but it seems also to me that this law defines and sets certain propositions for the different stakeholders found in this segment. I personally do not belong to those who, at this time of debate over this law, have expressed and expressed their enthusiasm that this law is actually going to solve a lot of things or that all drawbacks from sports will be eliminated. It actually seems to me about that clue that my predecessor was telling me that things were going or that they were being set up a little differently. I wish we had had the opportunity to discuss Croatia's national strategy about sports before this law. We know that sport is multilayered, multidimensional and as such includes different interests. So it's clear that the interest of school sports, for example, of how much he is, is therefore a nursery for professional athletes, at the same time located in a certain opposite position. Why? Because if it stands out more for professional sport or top-notch sport, therefore also professional, it will be less exclusive for school sport. And actually when you have a limited cookie that you can share and if you don't have clear criteria, clear projections and interests of this country, are we going to go to have as many young people as possible in sports, that we have as many recreationals as possible, so national health as someone here has said to the nation at a higher level or that we have more top athletes in the sense of professional athletes, it seems to me that we actually lack it and that in that sense the national strategy should define it all together. I'm saying it may not seem the opposite at first moment, but when you keep in mind that the cake is limited and that all sports do not have the same weight amongst the audience or athletes, then I would say and stress that this national strategy would be very important. However, one segment of which I would like to say something in particular, and it seems to me that it is very important, and it is partly relevant to why we do not have a national strategy or why we do not have firmly established and established criteria. It's about politics and sports. I personally support and belong to those who think that politics and politicians must move away from sports. Politicians, even if they were active athletes once. For the simple reason that the good part of the money that goes to sports today is budget money and on the market you actually have a jag of individual clubs for influential politicians. Each club is clear if there is a strong politician or strong businessman in his administration that there will be more resources. So what's going on with some other club or some other sport? And where there isn't a strong politician or a strong businessman, there'll be less resources. There's one more thing to keep in mind. That sport is a good political medium and there is, in fact, a certain way that there is sport discrimination. Why is politics, like politicians, interesting football? Well, because there are thousands, tens of thousands of people on the stands, and let's say their chess is uninteresting because there's a couple of people. You have according to this law, so chess is not a sport, because chess is therefore primarily a sport that requires mental effort, and as sport in this law is defined as purely physical and physical effort, this law is why we have thrown the chess out of the sport. Well, let's get back to politics and sports. Since this sport is a good political medium, then you are interested in politics to participate more in these sports, so in sports that are in a certain way so to say in a nation among citizens popular. Now here, on several occasions, a question has been raised as we have losers in sports, etc., big professional clubs, why hasn't anyone solved it? So be careful if you have through the media that some kind of club or some alliance or I don't know is called a national sanctity, so if there's something national sacred that you're going to shut it down and go bankrupt. He can't. I mean, actually, if coming out of the sport would open up a space in the sense that, as strange as it might seem, it would be to share this little cake that we have for sport more just. There would be no preference. Because it's not just your level of top and professional sport, you have it in all units of local self-government. Let's say, if the city or municipality doesn't have enough funds in the budget, and generally less than middle-medium, they don't, so if they have to choose investments in some kind of municipal infrastructure or public lighting, they'd rather bring in some player or put money into the club. But provided he sits there either the mayor or some prominent member of the headship. In fact, I am raising these issues of policy and sport relations for a simple reason because I think that certain definitions, certain criteria, could better be asked through a national strategy, and then the law would open up space to solve certain key relations. I could still define a lot about it and talk about politics and sports. It's not just politicians' interest to be in sports. And athletes, as I said, are interested in having a politician in sports. And that politicians are interested in having a certain influence in sport is also seen as a way to make sure that certain political parties have prominent athletes in their ranks. So, the story is very, very complex and complex. And I personally can't expect and I don't expect this law to get rid of a series of these things. So, I personally believe that first of all we should define a clear position of professional sport. So, a professional sport that would have to sow a lot of its assets on the market, through sponsors, through ticket sales, advertising and how it's already going. And so we have one notor fact, there's already been a speech about it, every time it goes to some top-notch club, a professional club, let's give money out of this budget or that budget. And at the same time we know that we don't have enough sports halls, that we don't have enough playgrounds, that we don't have enough coaches to work with these young people. The question of the definition and the setting of what we as a country want from sports? We can't, we have to clear and loudly admit that we can't do everything. We don't have that kind of money. And until that's clear, we're not going to go to the green branch. I claim that this law will make no difference in this sphere. Perhaps those questions of these losers will be defined, these do not know the different setting and definition of these large clubs because if the vast majority of the debaters are also in this assembly, and otherwise the stories that went outside the Parliament on this subject, the emphasis was on funds, on money, on lack of money, and this Law will not increase the funding in sport. Or insignificant. So I don't know what's gonna change that. The other thing is, I agree and accept those initiatives that started here. Tax policy and other financial measures should be considered to stimulate companies, businesses to invest in sport. Because it's the only way professional sports can get on their feet. Here, I end up thinking that by the second reading at least, I don't know if it'll be possible through the law, I think it might be possible through the law to set some criteria clearly. Because actually it's just that we don't know what we want to get a cacophony. And if you read this Law and try to read it along with the old law you will actually see that there are essentially small and minimal shifts and that the shifts again refer to what my modest judgment does not matter to national health, i.e. mass sport of young people, but only to those who are engaged in top sports. Not to be misunderstood, I don't think professionals and top-notch sports should help and follow them. But we should determine in what kind of relationship, first of all, what kind of sports in schools and school sports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58138	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first is Mr. Franjo Arabovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58139	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The esteemed fellow MP has presented one problem well, and this is a lack of sports facilities. Here I have here a report saying that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, along with the World Development Bank, has received a 300m-euro loan. I 150 is given by the European Investment Bank and 150 million is given by the state of Croatia. So that's where about 100 sports facilities would be built in the next three to four years. And I think it's one of the basic preconditions for sports to move forward. So, to allow children to play sports because today, unfortunately, they have nowhere to go. If this law at least solves it, which solved the school sports alliances, the ban on building schools without a proper sports hall, I think we've made a major shift. About professional sport we've all said more or less, there are a variety of opinions. About politics and sports, I'll tell you that I never needed politics or saw who was in power when going to some companies in Croatia, looking for donations. I haven't seen who's from which party, who's what. He would come in, explain to people what the goal is, what these funds are for, and I've never had any trouble helping. So I'll tell you, and the prime minister of our neighbouring countries in Italy certainly wouldn't have been prime minister if he hadn't had one football club. So that is, and our whole life we've been talking the same as one of our famous Croatian series, when they say we're not going to politics in my thigh, and for two hours, they've been talking political speeches all day. That's the same thing, we don't want politics in sports, and we never got away from sports or politics. I spent 22 years professionally playing sports, and I always had to go to the mayor for money, to the president of the Union of Communists of the Republic of Croatia, and I couldn't have otherwise worked in those previous years. So this makes sense now. Well, the minister is from the government as a sports minister...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58140	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Shime Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58141	In fact, I can say that fellow Arabovic confirmed what I was talking about. But let's still figure something out, which is that Berlusconi is a private private and that he worked with his money in sports. Well, then he came into politics, not the other way around, that he went to sports and made decisions about taxpayers' money. As far as the hall is concerned, another little politician. Let's count all sports alliances, Olympic committees, clubs, and see how many politicians there are. We could, like, do it that way. You'd be surprised, but I know you know it. As far as the hall is concerned, very briefly. Look, the fact is that we're going to open up access to this way and build new capacities and I say hello, but I'm asking myself something, since I have two kids who I've made to play sports and when they wanted to, and when they didn't want to, I know that it's always been paid monthly, so that's what school kids in sports do if they're doing some training for parents from 150 to 200 kuna every month, whether the gym, whether the coach, that's the amateurism, that's recreation, that's school sport.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58142	Thank you. Mr. Kajo Bucan, also a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58143	Dear colleague Lucin, here are only two notes. You said two sentences of politicians and sports and there's not enough money and I agree with that. You in your town have, you had until last year a football leaguer who played in the fourth lysa, in the county lysa. In order for him to survive, to pay those most basic costs, it takes an annual level of between 150 and 200 thousand kuna for those of the most basic costs to survive the club in the first place. Why? Well, one of the reasons is, say, what Mr. Mr. Mršić was just saying was water. In our climate, it only takes 50 thousand kunas of water a year to maintain a football lawn. On the other hand, an extremely large amount of giving to be warned, which small clubs have according to football alliances, county football alliances of some 10 to 15 thousand kunas that are paid each year to make lower adult categories possible at all, is where they should actually get in trouble here. And the third thing I wanted to say is, we still need to make sure that politicians are in sport in such lower categories, fourth county, fifth leagues, etc., from what you mentioned about politics and top-notch sports. So, in fact, all of that, it's interesting that all these little football clubs of ours, I end up with a replica, they like to play a game in the neighborhood rather than at home. Why? The problem is to pay them judges because if they are played by both pioneers and juniors and seniors that weekend, they must pay about 3,000 kuna only court costs for judges and delegates so that they prefer to play outside the house than at home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58144	Thank you very much. Answer, Mr. Shime Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58145	Thank you very much. You see, actually I... We agree, but I don't think that because of these problems in the administrations of these clubs politicians have to sit down but that the law should be settled with different and clearer propositions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Look, it's true that the problem of paying for water, it's crazy how much it costs, I know I was mayor myself, but you'll forgive me for having a bigger madness to bring in a world voice coach in that club and pay him twice as much as you pay for water because some politician is a friend of that coach for a simple reason because he thinks that in a certain way you should lift a monument. This is because you've drawn a particular topic, but it's not just water. You see, when I was mayor, to come back, the handball players came to me like this, so they said, "We need mayor, we can go to a bigger rank competition, we need it," I don't know how many 350, 400 thousand marks they said, "Can that city get us?" I said can't and it's simple for you. So it's not just water and grass. So the whole system is too expensive for me, there's too much interest, there's too much alliance, there's different lobbys from the judge's, the coaching, the delegates', so we don't go into all the details now.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58146	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Ivan Bagaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58147	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I've actually been denied part of my replica because it's a good part of Mr. Arabovic's answer to you for that part, but I would only then concentrate on one very narrowly, I think it's very important for all of us, and also because of the public that maybe once we're definitely starting to change our attitude with ourselves and generally against politics. So you said you were getting politicians out of sports. I understand that you said that in your best interest, we understand each other, however, so that we have to keep going with the paradigm about that someone who is a politician and who is in sports and wherever there is something muddy, looping and doing something illegal. So why don't we change the paradigm once definitely about ourselves, about politics and we said, well, in politics, because we care that things go forward, that they go better and better in general and that they are, among other things, of public interest. I'm not giving anyone the right to judge this hypocritically. Because politics would not be the same activity, as valuable activity as sport, as any other issue, and politicians as such welcome in any activity. So let's deal with politics honestly, and then even though we're in sports, we're welcome everywhere like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58148	Answer, Mr. Shime Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58149	Obviously we didn't get along well. I'll say it like this again. When I form or buy a football club or a handball club tomorrow you as a politician will be welcome in my administration, but where a decision is made on a state cake, on a taxpayer's cookie there is in itself understood that the one who sits in that club will act that way and it is nothing illegal that we understand. If someone sits in the administration of a club and normally has to stand up for that club, I don't think that politicians are more or less worthy of it, but we simply have to provide all sports and all clubs with the same proposition. I only stand for it because watch it when it starts, it's like when it goes... For the NBA, yes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So first they go the strongest and where they get you there is the most powerful influence, and after what remains in these lower clubs from these sports. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58150	Thank you very much. Let's move on, it's Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58151	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Now we've made an interesting circle. Col. Cervar, a few days ago, said "leave you athletes sport to athletes" if I could paraphrasise and somewhat agree or agree with him at this phenomenal level with my colleague Lucin, and I would pollomise by agreeing with my colleague Bagaric. Interesting crash-crawl combination. In fact, I think we all say the same thing, so I don't pollomize that with the spirit of the message delivered by Mr. Cervar and fellow Lucin when it comes to politics and sports. I am polarizing with an attempt to view sports politics exclusively at the level of participation of politicians in sports clubs and societies as media for abuse. Such politicians are completely irrelevant whether they are laundering, stealing, taking money in a sports club or in a commercial society. That's one level of trouble. It's not, politics are often meant to be. But that politics has to deal with sports, I hope it's completely unquestionable. In Article 2 of this Act and in paragraph 2, we said that it was an activity in paragraph 3. "Sport is an activity of special importance for the Republic of Croatia.". How could it be if it weren't for the president of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the entire government, the Parliament, the mayor? That is, a very important policy area. I think this is how we explain it, actually, and termologically we agree on what we think when we say politics is and politics isn't. Politics can be abused in any area. What seems to me to be so from this small controversy that has appeared at a termological level which seems very important to me, and I would say importantly not to lack this law is the fact that unfortunately in Croatia we have been working on the Sport Act for six years without doing our previous work. Unfortunately, we don't have a strategy to develop sports in this country. Unfortunately, sports isn't the only activity where we don't have a strategy. We don't even have a strategy for Croatia's development. I would say that this lack of vision that would consensually unite society on the objectives, so if you want political parties and forces, etc. at the finish line. If that's not there, then there can't even be a national sport development program. A national programme that provides for operators of activities, times and so on. It must be derivated, it must be derived from something that represents one general to say look and one goal, one vision of what we want to achieve in this activity. And that's especially important in sports, so it testifies if you want the most common perception that if you were to ask the citizens on the street about sports and the first sport association that would actually show a real little nightmare, even between us here. For one when you mention sports, then one will have stadiums, sports commentators, fans, audiences, money, managers, etc. But it's not a sport, or it's not just that. There will be about 20 or less Croatians in Croatia, and let's say 90% of Finnishs who will mean something completely different under sport. They will include that sport activity that most people engage in in these countries and it is about sports recreationals. And with us, maybe under sports recreationals, someone will say that it's, say, one view, that it's a sport for fat people, for disabled people, for old people, for pensioners, etc. What is it that we predominate when we refer to sports as an activity? Such issues are addressed by strategies. What makes me think this law is also pretentious as soon as you have the Sport Act and it's a topic that might be valid to discuss whether there's only one law as a roof law, or what will follow from this law, whether the law will come out specifically on sport in education, sports recreation, competition sport, it can all be special laws. If we have a claim that we have one whole law, then expectations are high, so even criticism of this law in that sense will probably be in line with those expectations. Bigger expectations of greater disappointment. What I'm trying to say is that we need to see what the place and the role of the sport is. If we look at only the institutional dimension of sports in Croatia then we will see in one banal fact how things are. We have at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports we have the Department of Sports but at its head is the assistant minister. I don't know how many State Secretarys are in the Ministry, but there's no Secretary of State for Sports. It seems to me unwarranted by underestimating this activity. If we don't already have the Ministry of Sports and I would find a hundred reasons to have it, primarily because of its interdisciplinaryity, then maybe we could have a state office or administration, or one body that would integrate various aspects of sport activities that have already been spoken of in this debate and that there is no reason to put themselves in one ministry regardless of what the ministry is talking about. Because we could list dozens of reasons why sport could be tied apart from education, as an educational category, and also as a health category. The aim is to improve health, health protection, etc. healthy, sick, disabled, etc. We could view it as an important social category in the process of resociation, especially those with special needs, etc. We could observe it in the context of tourism, the development of tourist facilities. Croatia has huge potential. These golf courses are mentioned, etc. But here I can see the end of my exposure coming. I mean to sum it up, we have to go back to the central problems first, the problem of building a strategy. This strategy will show which we have an optimal way of organising sports activities and in terms of if you want to set up a special ministry or a state office, a sports office not to touch other issues because there is no time for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58152	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, so Mr. Secretary of State Shetic called. First Mr. Shime Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58153	Well, we're going back to the basic problem all the time, and I think colleagues and gentlemen from the Ministry and the lady should think about it. And that's because we don't have a set goal, we don't have a set of criteria. What are we interested in? What are our allocation criteria and so on and so forth? And now I ask the question is whether we are interested in covering 20,000 young people in sports each year or whether we still have six top athletes who will promote the Republic of Croatia worldwide. I know it's impossible for both of us because there's not enough money for that. And so I don't think we need a new ministry and I don't agree with my colleague Vidovic because I think this law itself will already cause a great production of so-called. sports bureaucracy and in such a way will be another part of the cake, money that is intended for athletes to spend elsewhere, and it is all a product because we do not have a clear proposition. And when you don't have any clear proposition, then you have to have a ministry, you have to have this committee, that committee, this advice, so someone can say, "Well, we'll put that money there, we'll send this team there for preparation and so on and so on."
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58154	Thank you. Mr. Vidovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58155	Well, I didn't plead if my colleague figured it out well that it had to be the Ministry. ... It's actually on the trail of what you're talking about as a colleague. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This means not to build up sports bureaucracy but to give certain things to say by looking at multidisciplinary character that we do not limp and lean on one side not to miss any important dimension of sport as an activity and there are at least ten. That's what this is about. It's going to be an office, so I'm not advocating anything, and I'm actually saying when we have goals, then we're going to know both the means and the ways to realize these goals.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58156	Thank you. Replica Mr. Ivan Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58157	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As far as our colleagues are concerned, we actually agree on the way and this, I just support this way of thinking. But I think it's good to say teaching at that previous debate politicians whether in sports or not? Yes, in the sense that they are bearers of a healthy spirit and where they do not abuse their position. I have to say that in that part of amateurism that we really need where we need recreation, where we have to provide basic assumptions that every resident of "Beautiful Ours" can present their demands to both health and mental ones, and here we need the meaning of objects. There is a great need for our help, and we must all share in this together. Namely, to provide the child in kindergarten with an hour in a sports hall only a day is progress. School children have their own free time where they meet all the needs that school sports after that impose on them. After that, we as recreationals can have our part of the job at night, and the whole population breathes differently. I must say from my experience that, in any case, any politician needs this good will because, without politics, you unfortunately cannot come up with any but stronger project if it is not, but I am talking about politics as a healthy tissue and a contribution to this, amateurism above all. I'm only talking about amateurism, sports recreation, school sport is the assumption that the top sport that comes out of it would actually be one mirror and the desire of all those who are engaged in this activity as a crown and as a substitute for all the effort they make.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58158	Mr. Vidovic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58159	I'm glad there's no disagreement. On the contrary, once the Zeljezara Sisak who had 13 thousand workers had 9 or 8 and a half thousand recreationals. Pool, two sports halls, tennis courts, resorts, 9,000 recreationals. The town of Sisak until 1988 until the built pool had three, four drownings per year. In the last 17 years, neither. So when we talk about sports, it's a dimension that we, now that I'm talking about politics and politics, must have in front of our eyes. There's no price for human life. I listened as mayor. We've got too much, too much Olympic pool. Yeah. It depends on what we measure the cost of that sports facility. I don't know how much you're probably in your municipality in Moldova because of the high standard, probably if you'd do research less improve, you've got less mechanical damage, and so on and so on, I'm not talking about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58160	Thank you. Replica Mr. Franjo Arabovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58161	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. ... If we were to talk like this, talk about everything, about all the laws that the government is proposing, I think that we would achieve a greater view, a greater view of our voters, and I think that we would make much more of an ugly opinion about politicians in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as Mr. Vidovic's exposure is concerned, you've hit the very core. Sure. The strategy, when we talked about the strategy for sport development, is certainly a national programme that must first come up with something. I agree with you that something should be planned in advance. So we said we were going to do a national sports program for eight years. And who could do that? I certainly can't. Neither can you as an individual. Neither can the Parliament. There's nothing we can do. The only thing we can do is budget one game with amendments. Nothing else. Because, right now, by setting up the National Sports Council, we'll be able to appeal to someone, ask one of those councils to represent us with their own assumptions, government or institution. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The Parliament's making a budget, right. And how, we can't change it ourselves. So national, the National Sports Council will either lobby or otherwise put pressure on the government, make sure we don't write an amendment that we are the leading country, among the leading countries in Europe by the number of non-plyers and we don't have the money to train non-plyers. So that can't change when the budget's already been passed. We're the only ones who vote him here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58162	The replica of Mrs Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58163	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, you see, there's a lot of things I'm going to agree with my colleague Vidic and not in anything. For sure that sport as an activity is complex. I don't think that's why sport as an activity should be fragmented if I understand it well in several ministries or something or administration, and I agree that the Ministry of Education in the Sports Administration should have the least secretary of state because that administration really has to start to play a complex sport. Likewise, when we spoke, and you mentioned whether politics was needed, and at the very beginning, different opinions on whether politics should be involved in sport. So I think it must be done in the sense that both the state and the units of local district self-government establish public needs in sport and provide financial resources from their budgets to achieve them. So if they find that priority is sport, children, and youth, then they will finance it. It is a good example of the one you listed from the City of Sisak who has really given up a lot for years, and for the benefit of sports and sports facilities that are expensive for funding. But that's why I think we're always setting ourselves up for that level and school sport more and recreational sport than that professional sport. And that's why I think politics would continue, and it has to do very well in sports through its executive power.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58164	Thank you. Thank you very much. State Secretary Nevio Šetić also answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58165	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. I'd like to get a little involved in this controversy and contribute because there seems to be a lot of useful thinking to be appreciated. But I would start with Mr. Lucin's sentence that says by this law nothing will change. It may look like the truth at first sight, but it's not. Why? He just wants to change because he needs to draw the line, he needs to draw a transparent line, because if we keep sliding this way, it would be a disaster. Just take the professional club situation, and as Mr. Cain says, the club debts that we stopped this erosion six years ago, we had the law, we passed the law, we wouldn't have come where we are. I warn you that interest is growing every day, and if we don't find solutions, we're still crumbling and we'll find it harder to get above water. Right? Therefore, the issue of the strategy lies in it. This law contains more than philosophy and strategy on spirit such as Mr. Letica and Mr. Cervar what they said sport should be understood as building a whole man, a whole person. That's where it came from. And secondly, there were some objections that the Sport Act only treats professional sport. No, gentlemen, this law treats its 10 areas that we don't want to repeat because we've already said more than once, we've shown only one area that it affects, it refers to professional sport right now, going to that widest dimension of sport that enters every house that concerns every local unit, local self-government and the entire nation. Therefore, I believe that the law underlines that line, gives us opportunities, and these discussions of yours will do us good to build them on. There are also some very specific questions that can be addressed. As Mrs. Pervan suggests that top athletes, i.e. their pension and health insurance, contributions are paid from the budget as they used to be. But we need to be aware we have this one cake that we can share one way or another. We are here in the law more focused on school sport and everyone who follows knows that school sports is extremely on takeoff in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, these are issues now of choice and the opportunities that Croatia has at its disposal and our social product where to install it. Here I just wanted to touch some questions and convince you and thank you for these suggestions, because I'm sure by looking at these ten large areas and when the law is passed, probably with what amendment and with what new idea, it will certainly be a good springboard to go on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58166	Thank you very much. Let's move on. It's Mr. Representative Joseph Leko's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58167	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. I must say I was pleasantly surprised by the secretary of state now that he discovered the purpose of this law and thank him for it. I've been trying, I could say I'm going to study to discover the real objectives of this law, and now, after two days we've been discussing it, it's confirmed that the main objective of this law is contained on page 5 of the reasoning under point 7. The Proposer of this Bill has prescribed that sports clubs, competition associations delay the payment of the demand of the Republic of Croatia and legal persons in the bulk of state ownership, etc. Great. That's great. So, seven hundred million or a billion and a half as someone says it, we'll forgive you on behalf of the past, you know who, professional clubs. So, this is a pure sports dictionary, which is said to be for citizens, it's for citizens. Out of 7 hundred million so the lowest figure I'm taking can be built 100 gyms to practice sports. If the aim is national health, if the goal is to train or maintain the ability to work, therefore both mentally and physically, then the Sport Act must be separated. So we are talking about 0.3% of the Republic of Croatia's budget for the activity of particular interest in the Republic of Croatia. So we raised the sport to school, health care. Then we must take care of him as well as those activities. And colleague Davor who said to separate professional sport from what is the particular interest of the Republic of Croatia. We can also finance professional sports under certain budget criteria. It may be of interest to the Republic of Croatia, but let's not hide it behind amateurism. Let's not hide it behind the amateur. So, for example, by reading this law several times, the saying of Stanislav Simic, a worker of this sport, will remain only entertainment from this Sport Act. He said to the poor of folk tradition, though, only poverty remains. But to the Croatian worker of this sport, this Sport Act will leave only fun. If, and it is, I believe it is an interest to have top athletes, to have professionals, but let's not put it under the same basket. Let's separate those two things. School sport, amateur sports, recreation on one side, professional sports on the other side. I don't really know if the citizens of Germany are paying Bayern Munich and how much they stand out for that club. If they stand out, it's of course the interest of German citizens. But he's completely clean and clear to all of Germany. And let's not hide behind that interest, so let's explain to the citizens that they're taking care of school halls, recreational areas, and in an explanation, they'll be forgiven for their claims, so. Only demand from the Republic of Croatia's tax is 7 hundred million. What will 300 thousand workers who are waiting for work, who are looking for a job say? Whether and 7 hundred million kunas can be designed several thousand jobs or several world records of athletes who will record world records. What is our interest or interest in the Republic of Croatia in sport? Let's define that. This way, it won't bring clean relationships, it won't bring clean relationships. Speaking of clean relations and the rehabilitation of clubs that are now operating, professional clubs are said to be transformed into companies or associations, and then it is said again that in legal traffic they protect themselves so that only part of the assets they manage, but not sports competition, not athletes can go bankrupt. Here's what the article 39 says. I even have to say he doesn't understand it. Then what would be the content of a sports society, of a sporting society? Just objects? What would happen? Or, it says in law that every athlete, whether it's an individual sport or an individual sport, therefore collective sport must be a member of an alliance or an association. Okay. That's one approach. How long? When does he become a professional? How long does it have to be a member of the sports association? We don't have that clear concept. That's why my colleague Davorko said very well, let's set a strategy and then turn that strategy into a legal norm and determine that for amateur sport, for folk health, for recreation, for entertainment is 0.2%, and for professional sport when the results are achieved which are of particular importance for the Republic of Croatia 0.1 or 1% of the annual budget. So if someone becomes a European champion, or has the potential for a European champion in advance, with the risk the state accepts, we will give him 100 million kuna. Okay, that's our interest. But we can't, and that's the rule that professional athletes, professional clubs usually finance amateur clubs, they do a very important job of stimulating sports, which they benefit from. We can now deal with politics and say that every politician wants to be a member of a sports club, bring him some points, that's all right, but it's a very short breath. We had these experiences, so we knew that it would usually turn into negative references for such politicians. That was almost a rule in Croatian practice. Let us open clear perspectives to Croatian sport through strategy, define what we can finance, separate amateur and recreational and school sports from top and professional, decide who we want and how much we finance. Let the criteria be clear, so we will also be fair to workers who pay all of this together and we will be able to tell them that it is the interest of the Republic of Croatia to have a top, amateur, school and every other one and that we are willing to pay it in that amount. If we don't have it then indeed the ješka has been thrown out for Croatian citizens, and the result will be seen who will pick it up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58168	Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58169	Thank you very much. I'd like to correct Mr. Lek's incorrect allegations. He pointed to item 7 on page 5 of this proposal of the Law, saying that sports clubs, associations, are forgiven for their claims. However, by this proposal of the Law to sports clubs, associations are not forgiven but delays the payment of the demand of the Republic of Croatia and legal persons owned by the majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58170	Replica, respected representative Drazen Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58171	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Leco actually said as a central question of this Law on page 5, point 7. actually related to these debts. It is not disputed that these debts of sports clubs exist in this Law of Proposers, the expert team has analysed some of the solutions that exist outside. He chose some kind of Spanish model he thinks might prove good to us. Undoubtedly, it is one proposal that we can also amend, build, and see how it works. But I have to admit, I don't think the central question of this law is the issue of resolving those debts. I think the central issue of the Law is the point of the 4th basic reasons why the law is passed and I see that it is actually the treatment of sports, children and youth. Because what I think is important in sports is that we achieve this thinking that sport must become part of the culture of life. It must become part of the culture of life within the family in a way that it is passed on to children, in a way that further develops in kindergarten, in a way that further develops in school. Because that's where we're actually going to get some healthy habits from these people that are going to become adults tomorrow. That's where we get one base tomorrow for top athletes. That's where we're actually going to get a healthy nation. I can say on my own example when my wife was enrolling children one went to karate, the other on handball, the third on tennis, I started screaming and saying it was a blow to the budget. But today from this perspective, when I look at it, it's actually a wonderful habit, and in principle it's a prerequisite for a really healthy nation. And this is one question that is imposed on the current moment that we have clubs that are in charge, whose status is not well solved, and I think this solution that is in law is not bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58172	Replication response, distinguished representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58173	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Bosnjakovic, the whole point is to reshape current clubs that are in financial difficulties. Then we can't call it anything but what I called it. That we want to talk about amateur sports, recreational sports, and think about how we're going to settle the debts of the current clubs. I said let's make that clear, let's separate two things, and we'll sort it out. And when you advocate health, the question is legitimate, but we would have something to say about Croatia's citizens, whether health makes up 20 football players or 200 workers who can be recruited. That's a fundamental question. And I don't mind, although we have 20 football players and they're better than Barcelona and they bring reputation to Croatia and money. But not to forgive them from 700 million kunas, but to tell the workers we're taking care of you. The two things we can't kill as far as I'm concerned, but I'm sure it won't satisfy the citizens either. They will not be satisfied because it is 0.3% of the Croatian budget that can be saved in one year if the poor purchase in Croatia takes place under the Public Procurement Act. Save it. So the money for the activities of particular importance for the Republic of Croatia as well as for education and health care is not great, but we must not spend too little of it hiding it from the workers. We mean like amateur sports, and then we say we're going to reshape clubs that are due. It can't be, it's the point of my debate and I'm staying with her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58174	Second replica, Honored Representative Branimir Pasecky.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58175	Mr. President, I have to react to what Mr. Leko has just said, because I think that in the first reading of the debate on this law, it is neither dogma nor anything is variable but I think it is one working material and that this first reading should be about a well-intentioned work, and it is the easiest thing to talk about demagogue is to serve and talk about citizens and interests etc. I'd be delighted if when I'd referred to the criticism Mr. Leco spoke of, he'd come out immediately with counterarguments and suggestions. In that sense, I mean the debate now in the first reading of a law that we all agreed we needed to bring. So I'm not in favour of any harsh criticism, of attacks, but to say, I think that such a solution as is proposed in the law is wrong, but I suggest constructively that and not what our citizens think, it's pure demagogy from a time that neither you nor I agree with.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58176	Replication response, distinguished representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58177	My dear representative Pasecky, it may seem to you that the demagogy is 700 million, it doesn't seem that way to me. I am convinced, convinced that out of 700 million investment in the hall and make 100, we can expect a lot more European and world records in 10 years, so you accuse me of being a demagogue or something, but I'm talking to the public like that. 700 million is minimum that it will cost Croatian citizens this law without having any hall, not one threem track, not even a ping-pong table.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58178	And distinguished representative Franjo Arabovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So when you talk a lot of times when you repeat the number of 700 million kuna sounds very ugly... But who made that debt? [[You don't understand.]] That debt exists. Our children. Our children. Athletes. And not that we're saying that that money is someone... now claims that someone stole that money. Well, that debt came from one reason that clubs couldn't work. So they could have paid travel expenses, phone, water, electricity and what he had to do now, somewhere... have to normally and judges who come to the games to judge, their costs. And I'm the Law of... The tax and tax haven't been settled, and today there's a lawsuit that's right. [[You don't understand.]] I am personally the same at the end of playing one year in Croatia, when I had a contract guarantee that all taxes and divisions would pay the club, the club did not pay, had nothing to pay from. At the end of the season, thank God so I had, I went to the IRS and paid for it, so then I could complain, but I didn't, the club was correct, so I said no problem. So let's not keep saying 700 million people have stolen and someone will, the state will forgive someone. It was stolen in Rijeka Bank 700m kuna, 100m euros, and in "Viktor Lenco" it is not known how many million euros. That's where someone else should be dealt with, not us who say that we will pass the Sport Act to prevent such statements and such manipulation in sport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58180	Replication response, distinguished representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58181	Dear counterpart Arapovic, it does not help the citizens because it has been stolen from any bank, so that 700 million more are stolen from them now. That doesn't help them. They didn't send us here to say it was stolen before so let them steal now. ... No, no. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] This is even uglier than you said. The government acknowledges that the tax debt is 700 million and even more debt to state-owned companies of the Republic of Croatia, so much more. That's what we're talking about, because they sent us here, chose to protect the interests of both material and spiritual and every interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So you can't tell me to forgive 700 million because it's... He's saying good-bye. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Excuse me, fellow Arabovic, so far no one has denied that debt exists for many years, that it is growing and that it is not known, and even the promoter says that all inspections, all experts, should be sent to determine how much of this debt is. Is it your interest in the Republic of Croatia, that we don't even know how these clubs operate, and... We're giving... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is not the interest of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is maybe special under the alleged signs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58182	Dear representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58183	Dear Mr. President, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. I must admit that I like the way this debate continues today in one controversy because, when the debate began on Friday, I was quite concerned when I saw that this Law was being talked about exclusively in that one tone of enthusiasm about the new and revolutionary changes that this Law will bring. In fact, I'm still standing at the point of view, it seems to me that most of the people in this House, at least those who debated, who say that there are no major, significant and significant changes in this law for most of the activities in sport. Except in that section relating to professional sports, and that's this whole renaming story, that is, the transformation of professional clubs. Everything else, recreation, school sports, student sports remains defined in the same way as before. There are about 40 to 70% of citizens in Croatia who are engaged in recreation in Europe. You have a single article written. School sport has 3 articles, students seem to me 2, and this self-transformation of clubs in sports companies has exactly 18 articles. So I'd like someone to find an argument for this if the primary idea and primary goal of this law were school recreation sport, it's simply not true. Most of this law deals with professional sports. Secondly, the question of funding in sports that seems to me here has been the most debate and the most topic. We can't solve the funding issue, I'm going to now not talk about this professional sport but more about the amateur sport that's being financed from public sources. So over, from the state budget through the Croatian Olympic Committee, i.e. from the units of the budget of local self-government through the public needs programme. If we don't change the framework of thinking and funding that we've been working on so far. We leave exactly the same methods, the exact same channels, the exact same sources, and we expect different effects. It's just impossible, it happens different effects with the same story won't. It might be too much to argue that, for example, because in the financing system especially from the state budget, the Croatian Olympic Committee comes as some sort of inter-stage from the state budget to the national alliances. To put the Croatian Olympic Committee in the same level with the national alliances because what has been established by the review report and what they have found, what we have finally discussed here in the report on the work of the Croatian Olympic Committee, that most of the funding in sports is happening today according to the criteria of who is good and who is closer to whom, this will get more money. This is especially true for smaller alliances, for smaller sports, for some non-Olympic categories, and I dare say for some parts of women's sport itself. And if the Secretary of State here is talking about how in some way we need to draw a transparent line then we need to withdraw in a way to establish maybe a different way of funding. Because we're still keeping everything exactly the same. Second, about the school's student sport. There's been a lot of talk here, but I want to point out two details that nobody seems to have mentioned. In elementary schools, that school sport still works that way. High school disaster, university, student sport almost doesn't exist. And it seems to me that if we wanted to do it in some way more, it takes a lot more than to declare in the law that there are some kind of school students' societies or university, or student sports alliances, and that it has some kind of priority in time because it all exists now. That, therefore, is nothing new. That it's necessary to do much more. And then, among other things, I urge the Proposer of this Law to consult, for example, the national programme of action for young people who have a whole chapter here, and to see in a special way whether and in any way in the law to prescribe links between school sports, i.e. that transformation, i.e. sending children conditionally from school sport to any further amateur sport. Most of the national alliances in their sports have settled this, but it is still left to anyone who will and how anyone remembers and how who has whatafinities. The fourth, in a way, remark and perhaps a public appeal not because today is International Women's Day, a question of women in sports, or sports women. In our law, the thing works well. It's said, everything is equal. Then in the article behind that, you say, a athlete, or athlete (in the following text, athlete) and more and more talk about athletes only works equally. In practice, and all the colleagues here, and those who were involved in sports, you do not have it in any way equal. All the bad training times in the hall get women, premiums, was an example of some running, some marathon. Male, first place 10 thousand kuna, female first place 5 thousand kuna. The same mileage was running. Cups, prizes, all neatly arranged, these are exact data, neatly getting less and less in the sport itself of women. Just look at the following, for example, the first basketball or football league. There's both. Now, for example, our basketball league is pretty bad. Three years ago, when women's basketball was at a very high level and even one news story about it, it was not placed in the quarter of the Iliana Rocketti Cup final, which is equal to the European Cup. There was no news of that in any media. One question, or suggestion to the proposings. I don't know if it's necessary or how to resolve it in this law. The question of sports dance, which is a lot in various variants that a lot of children deal with in cities, sports dancing by definition is a sport contest. They have alliances, competitions are organized according to sports criteria, does not belong to sport by any category. The problem is financing, then they say go into culture. Culture says, no, it's not culture, it's sport, so you can kind of see how to solve the question of sports dance. And finally, 3 perhaps more concrete remarks on the text itself, to just some individual articles. Therefore, Articles 22 to 40 define this story regarding professional sport and transformation into sports companies. I think it should be contained a little bit, defined to and under what conditions sports clubs transform into sports companies. Then they are simply subject to laws relating to companies and I don't think there should be any too many exceptions. Article 12, but also a few other articles of the Law, among other things, define that persons trained to work in sports, define them so that they are persons who teach certain sports techniques to citizens. I have to admit it pretty much interfered with that formulation because every sport is made up of technique and there is no de facto without the technique of that sport. Because teaching the technique of a sport is equal to teaching a particular sport. So a little bit in a way that tonguey, clean it up all together because it's giving birth to a lot of vagueness. It is also defined and supported in Article 62 that it was indeed defined what professional qualifications are for professional sports affairs, in this sense only two observations. In paragraph 3, where it is stated which persons, or persons who are able to work in schools of extracurricular activity, it is said that they are only teachers who have graduated from the Faculty of Kinesiology, or those who are qualified to teach physical health culture. I'd like you to include teachers, class teachers. Class teachers listened to colleges and systematic kinesiology and general kinesiology and methods of physical health culture, eventually holding the teaching of physical and health culture, and according to some other education are specially trained to work with these younger categories, and it seems much more appropriate for those, especially those who have these personal affinities, to work with children than some who have coaching licenses that actually have no connection with development and work with children. And in paragraph 4, I have to admit that this particularly hurt my qualification for one who, in the most recreational sense, should be engaged in sports at one base level, it is said that these are persons trained to work in sports. No other qualifications are required, and it seems to me that some basic sports, or coaching education is important here. It's about basic athletics, it's about basic techniques in certain branches, and it's bad that what's really focused on the widest circle of people is looking for as the only qualification that you're qualified to work in sports, and I have to admit it reminds me of some cases that I've witnessed that coaching licenses over a week or two of some seminars somewhere that with some systematic work programming in sport and sports training theory have nothing to do with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58184	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Srecko Ferenčak.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58185	I would like to correct the incorrect allegations of my colleague Mlinarić in the part where she said that the Croatian Olympic Committee shares the money with the alliances according to who is closer to whom. It's just not true. The Croatian Olympic Committee has too little money, some 80 million kunas that must be shared on all alliances equally, to you for information The Handball Alliance gets the most to me only about 2 and a half million kunas, basketball 2, I don't know Atletski 2, we somewhere around a million 900, so that's not even 10% of the budget of that alliance. Therefore, this cake must be divided and divided in a way that all alliances give their needs to the Croatian Olympic Committee and depending on the results of these alliances, so that is at least the last 6 years I have followed it on the Croatian Olympic Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58186	Second correction, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58187	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's to correct my colleague that we have financially discriminated athletes and women's sports clubs, which is not true because we know ourselves that women's sport is often a gym sport, it costs more, I can tell you our example that out of the million kunas that we give to athletes, far the most gets women's handball club for years, and if we ask ourselves a few questions which athletes are the most popular of us again are athletes, Janica, so Vlasic, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58188	Replica, respected representative Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58189	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected colleague said that when she relied on the law that only two, three points of the Law on School Sports, School Sports, Recreative Sports and Student Sports. Because it was somewhat and... So far, there's been no need to introduce something new now but to just go with what's well taken over in this law so that those who say... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The government wants to do it for the sake of sport, and that it was done six years ago when the law passed the first reading and came to this House of Commons, and then after a debate by a strictly minister who confirmed it two days ago forbidden to bring it to a second reading, we would today have a much better and more orderly situation in sport than it is today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58190	Replica reply, distinguished representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58191	Well, fellow Arabovic, I'm at least confused right now. Now you said that school sport was taken over from the old law because it all works out somehow now and there's nothing new and that it's normal that it's so two, three articles, and the whole Friday and today a good part of the morning most of your colleagues claim it's something new now, the latest that's going to change something. I have to admit that I'm confused now, that I actually don't know what to think. So, I'm glad you're a little... I'm glad you've confirmed my thesis that the things that concern the school's student sports have become exactly the same and completely unchanged as they have been and then I hope no one here in this House will say that this law gives one to that kind of great accent and that there are some big and revolutionary changes as you kept saying Friday and today all morning. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58192	Second replica, the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58193	A colleague, Lugaric, has become a victim of the semantic chaos that exists in the law. So if he's going to dichotomy school sports, then his anti-sub's a university sport because otherwise he'd be a student and student sport. It's hard to develop student sport, to develop the whole concept of law, to build on a model of university sport, because that's what's going on in Europe today, especially in the United States.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58194	Third replica, Honorable Representative Happy Ferenchuck.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58195	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First I have to apologize to my colleague, Lugaric, that I crossed her last name, but it wasn't on purpose. So I would like to talk in this area where my colleague Lugaric said that women are discriminated against in sports, that they are not given enough attention and that the paper does not write enough about women's sports. I don't think that we can by law determine who will write about who, it determines the market, determines people who want to read whether to write more about Janica, who is constantly in the papers thanks to her results, means it depends on what you do in the sport of Blanca Vlasic, let's say for information now to tell you that the Croatian Olympic Committee has purchased two pages in sports news precisely for these small sports that are not so attractive to the broad readership. I don't think such things can simply be regulated by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58196	Replica reply, distinguished representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58197	I agree with you fellow Ferenčak that this cannot be legally established, I have just said in my presentation that this law cannot be established, but that by speaking here in the Croatian Parliament we can influence that some things and interests that would be socially relevant can change. I am still standing by the claim, if you look at today's newspaper, you mentioned yourself Blanca Vlasic, who is preparing me for the European Chamber Cup or something like this, she only came to the fourth page at the bottom, her whole story, and on three pages we have a fourth analysis of some football game where someone lost something very badly. I was talking about it that no one should come to the press or get a reward for that work or for not a good result, but when someone has a good result because it's created in twisted social values a whole other system then I think it should be valued equally in matters especially in sports women are not the case. I repeat, both the terms in the halls and the awards themselves and the premiums themselves, and everything else is important lower and talk about the need for women's health to work generally I think I'm deplaced now that there's no need.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58198	Honorable representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58199	Thank you very much. So I'd just like to back up that part of my colleague Lugaric's debate that talks about women's inequality in sports, and I'd like to back that up with two data. For example, in the new proposal for criteria on the categorization of athletes, the third category in the handball is said to have athletes from 1st to 5th place in the first men's Croatian league, but for women it is only from 1st to 3rd place. For example, 1st to 4th place in the cup of Croatia for men or only 1st and 2nd place for women. It's similar in basketball. 1st to 5th in the men's league but 1st to 3rd in the women's league. And also 1st to 4th place in the cup of Croatia for men and 1st to 2nd place in the women's cup. Well, that's a piece of information that speaks enough about how equal women are in sports, in fact, and in sports only the declarative nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58200	Reply to the replica of the respected representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58201	I thank you, fellow Perman, and I hope that here is this very specific information you have managed to convince those who think there is no inequality, that indeed this inequality exists because your data is very clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58202	And respected representative Ivanka Roksandić replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58203	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'll relate to this by your colleague Lugarić when you say that inequality is present in the use of the hall, that women's sports clubs are harder to get dates. That's not true. If you followed my discussion in the use of halls clubs receive such terms as often set up by a very founder, city and municipality. Another thing I'd like to tell you is that you said that most of the law deals with professional sports, which is not true. The paper is the reshaping of sports professional clubs but the truth is that the paper is not a school sport, but it is specifically put in priority here and that is why the importance of this law is just as you said that the catastrophic situation in high school sports is. The truth is that unfortunately in high school students begin to have less interest in sports and it is all our fault, so we need to return sports from kindergarten, primary school, to strengthen the activity of teachers of physical and health culture, extracurricular activities. And when I'm an esteemed teacher, class teacher and your proposal that they might also be able to perform some sports activities and I know a part of such people, I'll say such women teachers. I think that we should respect the Ministry's proposal and leave it to the experts, therefore, to those teachers of physical and health culture and my proposal is even from kindergartens to include exclusively experts, I repeat, respecting the knowledge of classroom teachers.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58204	Reply to the replica of the respected representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58205	There are three applications from the end to the beginning. I don't understand how you respect the knowledge of class teachers when you don't give them the right to what they have professional qualifications, which is to teach physical and health cultures because they do, because they program that teaching on their own that those who have special affinities don't also lead extracurricular activities. I don't understand that. If someone has passed a college, repeat, systematic kinesiology, general kinesiology, methods of physical and health culture, all possible psychology and training theory so that they cannot conduct extracurricular activity especially in the lower classes. I don't understand that appreciation because it's actually really disrespect. Second, school sports. The treatment is exactly the same. And so far in the existing law it's been that... as a priority activity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, these claims do not stand. And women and appointments in the halls. In Zagreb, you are already snivelingly talking about some halls that is your women's hall because only women's clubs are training there. Cases from my practice saying to say some term of evening that is optimal for training from about five or six o'clock in the afternoon were neatly obtained by men's teams and conditionally said men's clubs and we were, in my example, a story of a junior and senior career never entered the hall until half nine o'clock in the evening. And that's what I'm talking about is that there's this nice discrimination between women themselves in sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58206	Dear Representative Ivan Drmic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58207	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to express my satisfaction and support that a law like this has come to the agenda today, not because this law is ideal and I expect that it will solve all the accumulated sports in sport, but simply because it shows this coming on the agenda and the debate that it has started to think more seriously about all the problems that our country's sports activities are facing today. The fact is also that the current situation in sport is catastrophic and that the false perception that something still has positive gives these international successes of our athletes in international competitions, although when we look at this situation a little bit, we can notice that this is not the result of the system, that it is not the result of state policy towards sport but in the first place of enthusiasm, in the first place of parents and also individuals who have installed their money and their personal time and through one love came to such top results. I must also point out that amateur sport of young people and school sports societies practically do not exist today at all. Over the past fifteen years as there has been commercialisation of sports in our country it has come overnight and there has simply been dealing with this professional sport although clubs today are in great dubiosis, we have examples of life that individuals of these clubs and of this action in sport can live very well and make very nice money. I don't mean athletes who are actually responsible for bringing that money and achieving certain results, but some other people who view that sport as a business, simply and what little money is invested in sport is poured into their private pockets. I would also like to refer to what counterpart Šišljagic said about forgiveness of debts accumulated in sports clubs, especially football, which amount to much more than 700 million kuna. Most of the guilt to say so in this current state, we could hear in this debate that it's being brought down to the former Sport Act. I'm interested in what law it is, not only the Law on Sports but any law that has been passed in this House has allowed such a functioning of sport, functioning non-transparently in such a way that such and so many debts can be accumulated in these sports companies that will become sports shareholders tomorrow. I wonder how many people were responsible for one such non-transparent business. Also, these debts are likely to be reduced to zero by this law. The payment of those debts will be postponed. Who guarantees it? This law certainly not, I've studied it quite in detail that it will not continue to operate in about the same way and that in a few years we won't have one such debate in this place again when the debts will be again 700 million kuna, with notice that they also passed means the ones mentioned today have failed to be charged. School sports societies and amateur youth sport for the sake of these associations, so to speak, it is necessary to urgently create a National Sports Development Strategy because it can also happen to us that if we invest in the halls, the equipment means for sport that in due course, eventually there will be no one to play and play sports in those areas. We all say that there is no room in the halls, that the terms are busy, and simply if we look a little bit better, that is, in cities above tens of thousands of inhabitants where, the fact is that there are a small number of sports facilities but there are also a lot of halls in smaller places where the terms are not filled. He just stares blank. Our youngsters today are doing as much sport as they have to. So in gym class, and outside of teaching sports activities, they're simply reduced to zero. I don't think it's a good thing it's in the new law, and it's about professionals who are both coaches and doctors because I think there's a lot of success in the field and people who aren't trained professionally. They don't have that paper to say that they could be engaged in a sport, but they knowingly separated some of their free time out of love and helped these young people train them to produce some results. First of all, the results relating to their health and that they are given simply some interest in not going to city cafes and, where the problem of drug abuse, hopelessness and the rest arises. So the first thing to do is take care of it, and through one such selection and interest of young people in sports will come tomorrow and the best results and our young people will know how to represent our country well in international sports competitions. The same evidence of what I'm saying is today in the football league, the basketball league, an increasing number of foreign athletes. For me personally, I'm not a professional athlete or I've never been professional in sports, but I know and I can't imagine that we don't have enough of our staff especially in these domestic leagues. Their young talented athletes who would eventually give them all the conditions to simply grow into such individuals that they could take their place and play for these Croatian clubs. I got nothing against those people coming here to play. But I think our young people should be a priority and they should be given a chance to play, to play that sport today amateurally, and tomorrow if they show good results and professionally. Also in this new law, the status or person of the manager has been omitted. I think it's one person in sports today with us who's inevitable. You don't have anywhere to talk about sports or to discuss sports that you simply can't and can't mention the manager. These are the people I mentioned in the first part of the debate talk who live very well from today's clubs that are in great dubiosis but as far as I know them, some I know and personally they lack nothing and they always manage to collect their debts in time. I think this law was meant to solve both commissions and contracts, and especially the relationship between a player-club manager. Because often in today's time relationships were such that cream and money from the contract pick up the manager in 80%, 20% gets a player, and the club remains debts that have been made in the past. I think this law should be on that track, and I hope that something will be done in that field until the second reading. It's also sports funding. This law has not resolved how much money will go for these sporting activities for sports costs in our country. Part of the sports activities cost was transferred to local authorities. I come from the field. It is normal to know what is the situation in the city's county budget and I know that so far it has been invested in sport much more than it can theoretically endure one city of Đakovo from which I come or Osijek or any other city other than Zagreb that has a very generous budget. There is also money that goes from, in a certain percentage of the lottery of Croatia, means to finance sports. I think perhaps in the next reading an item should appear that one part of that money is also going to finance local sport. It means that money also helps the local administration to finance the part intended for the city’s or county budget. The fact is that Luttria Croatia operates in the field of the entire country. To make people pay money, to use her services. I also think that this should be shared in a transparent manner and thus satisfy the local administration. Also one very big misunderstanding in my mind is the separation of this amateur sport, which mostly falls to the financing of local administration. I'd ask a question about football schools, handballs, basketball where most of the young people who even do sports work through those schools. So amateurs play sports, but these schools are football, handballs and other clubs today at professional clubs, regardless of how amateur that part of the sport is. So they act up, that school attends several hundred young people in these clubs and today, when that club becomes a sports stock society, the question is who will finance that part of the club. Because the fact is, that part doesn't bring money, it's not commercial. It's also amateur. And will the club simply agree to separate the money from that of its budget so that this activity continues in the future. It means whether those schools need to be singled out from that sports stock society or if there is some other possibility of funding that part of the sports share society. I would also look back on the role Oh, it's about time. [[Intruder: Thank you very much!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58208	Replications. Honorable representative Antun Perusko. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58209	Thank you, Mr. President. So, no doubt, the dispute is a very important activity that the number of MPs who have applied for an individual debate is also very important. However, no one in the debate missed without touching exactly this 700 million kuna debt. I mean, if we just focus on this issue, then for nothing, we pass a law like this besides these professional clubs, which are about 2% to 3% in Croatia, there's an army of athletes who deserve more attention. However, counterpart Drmic asked a rhetorical question about who was responsible for these debts. Well, you know the government back in the '90s. These debts did not arise after 2000, as Mr. Šetic said six years ago it was passed so that the situation would not be like this. This is just a plus for interest, and debts were created by the year 2000. But please, I ask the question as if hypocritical states and sports were interested in the 1990s when it was worth working on the state's promotion, when football players were playing under grenades that fell all over Croatia. Then after some relations I would say politically resolved, when some relations were politically resolved and while at the same time the quality holders of collective sports were poor and could not follow European and world trends, clubs I mean, football and basketball became too much of a burden for the state and the state of Pilate washes their hands from sports. And can the entire first Croatian football league be abolished? I think the answer is clear that he can't. This one model is proposed, please weigh nicely, it has great weight. I'm not sure that's the best model. However, in any case, the solution to this must be found and if we focus only on this debt of professional clubs and only on the discussion of professional ones then the damage of the time we lose.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58210	Reply to the replica, respected representative Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58211	Well, part of me would agree with what you put out in your replica. I mentioned that 700 million kuna debt as one minor problem. In my presentation, there was a bigger problem with the disappearance of amateur youth sports, university sports. So, what I think is sports. For me, this professional sport that you were talking about is a kind of business and I asked it simply to fit into the law to place not only a source of funding and money in these clubs, but also a system of responsibility. So those people who have that money and who make those debts. Debts were made by individuals, neither by politicians nor by businessmen in companies. They made people, businessmen whose sport is business, people who never kicked the ball, people who never jumped on the mat, but people who only see money in sports. I would also disagree with you if the debt had occurred in the '90s. The fact is that in those 10 years, most of the debt has arisen, but I assure you, and here we are now discussing the fact that there are debts on the ground somewhere and that they are still piling up.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58212	The next replica, the esteemed representative of Lino Cervar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58213	Mr. President, I would just like to touch on the article in 56 that he was talking about could be said by a distinguished representative. It is considered that sports activities and are considered to be organised outside of the teaching school sport activities that only natural persons must perform under certain prescribed conditions. I would touch that and support his thinking, that instead of having our halls closed at night, and that there are no children inside, we would allow coaches who do not have the required conditions, and who have proven themselves to create a number of winners, champions, to give them a chance that they work with children because they can certainly and educationally act and work professionally on our children. Therefore, I give great support here, Mr. Honorable Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58214	Third replica, the respected representative Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58215	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'd just like to explain once more when it comes to this 700 million. 700 million kuna and 850 clubs in Croatia. So it's not just football, professional clubs, basketball, handball. This is a total debt of 850 clubs in the Republic of Croatia. Now, who's to blame for that debt is very hard to talk about. It's very hard to tell who made that debt. Everyone, because it couldn't be done differently. We talked more about managers. Yes, Mr. Primorac, Minister Primorac spoke about managers in his presentation on Friday. We just came to this high house to discuss where to put the manager, where to put him, what licenses to give him. And one more thing, when it comes to reshaping a sports club into a sports stock company, it will have as its first revision of business. No one will be in the interest of six months doing some financial nebulosis, and at the end of the year, if he's in a downer, he goes bankrupt, on a drum. And by the fact that the ministry and the government are proposing another law, which is the Law on Inspection in Sports. So it'll be covered on that side.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58216	Reply to the replica, respected representative Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58217	The only thing in common is that me and my colleague, Arabovic, feel that we need to resolve this tense and poor situation in Croatian sport. The fact is that you, Mr. Arapovic, view this law as a professional athlete, which you were until recently, and I see as one man who recreationally deals with sports, who wants his child to have the conditions to play sports and simply for me, the 700 million kuna, or a much higher amount if they were to allocate debts to state-owned enterprises is not little. It's money spent above what is available to clubs. The fact is that even in the last 15 years as he sinks that sport and premiums to players, athletes, coaches, they were getting bigger. So, the less money there was, the less premiums, the pay went up. In my opinion, the people who ran those clubs were supposed to simply fit into as many budgets as they had. If it's not for 100,000 euros, the player is 10 a year. If he won't play the one who took 100, we'll find a player who'll play in 10. I believe that's how it was done in such a way that the debts would be lower today.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58218	And distinguished representative Marijan Mlinarić. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58219	Dear Mr. President, counterpart Drmic said that it should be possible for people who want to lead certain education in their spare time and who do not have a certain education. I have experience myself. I ran a club for 25 years, and I got very good results without finishing my degree in physical culture. However, I must say that I have passed all the courses, all the possible gathering of knowledge in the profession through parallel with club management, so that it cannot be enough just good will and knowledge of certain techniques without anyone wanting to do responsible coaching work learning parallel to work and achieving good results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58220	Reply to the replica, respected representative Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58221	I would agree with you in a certain section. However, if you see in the law that there is a little too much to ask, you and your courses and what you say you've been through would not admit today that you can work in that sport. I also think that you should selectively tell this problem because it's not the same to train karate where certain injuries can occur, so you should be careful. And it's also not the same to train chess.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58222	Okay. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs will now be interrupted because if a colleague of ours starts, we'll go deep in time. Continuing at 13.30 p.m., Honored Representative Zvonimir Sabati, Anton Peruško, Alenka Kočica Chicin-Shain. Resume at 15.00 hours. We continue with the session, the proposal for a law on sports. The Honorable Representative, Plasimir Sabat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58224	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, after almost two days, certainly every area of this bill has been touched, but it will not be necessary for me to make my contribution. The theme is certainly current also because it has been waiting for a long time and also because of a series of events that are happening around sports. But I would also begin to try completely to focus my discussion on certain parts of this law. I'm going to start with Article 2 which I especially like, and I'd like it to really become the real foundation of this law and sport. In Article 2, paragraph 2, says: "Sport must be equally accessible to everyone regardless of age, race, sex, religion, nationality, social status, political or other belief." Sport is an activity of particular importance for the Republic of Croatia. These are the fundamental postulates of this law and it would be good if a whole series of other chapters and articles were on the trail. But in real life, however, not everything is so ideal. Not everyone's sport is equally available. We come from all corners of the Republic of Croatia and surely there are poorer areas, municipalities or settlements in these regions so that young people in such poorer municipalities do not have the same conditions, so they do not have the same chance of success. As a rule, these small municipal budgets, lack of sports halls, landscaped terrains with accompanying facilities, a low overall standard creates a situation that even leaders do not have the means to allow children equal availability or chance to, to prove talent. I will link this to Articles 77, 78 and 79 which talk about the financing of sports where everything is generally confirmed or determined by public certificates in sport, both at national and local level. Let me put my two thoughts here. The public needs of sport at national level are listed in Article 78. That's where the recreation's left out. I'm afraid it's not a state interest then. And if we remember that only 10% of the population is involved in sports, then we should definitely consider whether or not recreation is needed to be a state interest. Furthermore, the programme of public needs in sport brought by units of local or regional self-government that are often poor and insufficiently set aside to encourage and develop sports as well as to give opportunities and to the poor for success. I propose that the minimum public need of state interest be financed from the state budget, but that the upgrade be financed from the budget of the units of local self-government. The fifth chapter of the law should also be added to this funding topic. The fifth chapter also discusses elaborate association. The school, school societies in Article 44 have many and easier to set up and finance initially because they are usually within the school system. Student, there were also talk of university sports associations not and do not have a good representation in the context of sports, but are not too... in the framework of the higher education system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are too many problems, and the main problem is that students are usually guests in some sports facilities, as well as the overall higher education system does not encourage the establishment and operation of student or university sports associations. Article 50 speaks about sports associations in sports recreation insufficiently, I dare say superficially. No recreationals have some priorities in the use of sports buildings. With these priorities, the recreationals are only in third place. And the arranged surfaces are almost gone, and if there are, they are maintained badly, and for new surfaces, they are very rarely put into spatial plans. On the basis of the proposal, I conclude that truly sports recreation is not a state priority. Sports associations of persons with disabilities are not sufficiently represented in this law. There's talk of organising them, but too little about funding. Unfortunately, it all ends up on a public-needs program, but that's not enough. Chapter 9 speaks of sports buildings. There's not much talk here about nature sports, I'm repeating recreationals again. Once again, mass sports work has been abandoned. The main part of this chapter is the adoption of a network of sports buildings. In Article 69, who brings the network? I quote: "The Republic of Croatia and the competent body of the unit of local and regional /regional/ self-government and the city of Zagreb bring a network of sports buildings. I think it's a little vague and shouldn't be a problem writing who's gonna do it? I believe that the Croatian Parliament and the representative body of the units of local self-government will bring this, that network. And I think that should be written in this article. It's an important question for a number of reasons, of course, that network of sports buildings. And it certainly needs to be re-numbered that this applies to both demographic and... and cultural and so on policies that are important for the survival of sports in total. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Chapter 12 of the Law introduces the information system in sport. Of course, I, as a professor at the Faculty of Organization and Informatics, can even say that I am partly related to this area in one section of information and society, I am pleased that the doors to information and modern IT solutions are increasingly opening. But beyond this law, the whole solution must be. I can't give any relevant assessment of this information system in sport here because I don't know if it's a separate partial solution or whether it's part of the overall information system. Why am I saying that? There is a clear need for information solutions both in health and in education, in the judiciary, etc. I don't want to pick it up. However, if we partially solve each area separately then there may be discrepancies or compatibility, incoherence, and this could be at some point very expensive. Not to spend a lot of money in the end, and the effect is much worse than expected. Chapter 13 refers to state awards in sport, where Article 86(3) provides for criteria for awarding state prizes for top sports achievements. This is determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would like to create a link between the criteria and the amount of funds and to make it publicly and transparently public when budgeting. It is not good for the second paragraph of Article 84 to determine the level of the monetary part. It always causes certain thinking to be good for someone. And in the end, transforming into sports stock companies, so I'd say that I'm just expressing a certain reserve for the reason that I'm afraid that those investments that people, residents, citizens of each neighborhood don't come into the possession of some irresponsible person. Or even worse situation for the club to become the property of these shareholders, and to take care of the grounds, the facilities of the school, possibly leave it to the local community for some time. Most people invested their own work, invested funds and gave up land fees, etc. etc., and it would be good to consider this very transformation further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58225	Thank you. Replica. Dear Representative Franjo Arabovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58226	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I would like to thank my colleague for a truly quality presentation and I would just like to clarify one thing about the financing of local self-government. On behalf of our own and on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, we will submit one amendment for a second reading, with local self-government and administration, cities and counties having the right to first purchase. So they can handle the club. He'll own the clubs. So if they can't function on a new model after a year, he'll have the right to sell his shares. So now, not only will the cost remain to the local administration, the community of self-government, but it will have, each will have its own club and whether it will be available or not will be seen after a year.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58227	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Zvonimir Sabati.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58228	Mr. President, I really have no intention of replicating myself because I'm getting into something new and I don't want to go ahead and criticise something I don't know if it's going to score. I'm just saying I'm afraid that by no chance would some shareholders or owners of such a society have football players, sell them well and then leave them to the local community facilities. I'm just saying I'm afraid it doesn't happen. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58229	Thank you. Honorable representative Anton Perusko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58230	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, already in the replica of my colleague, Drmić, I have expressed some views on these issues that are being broken today in this assembly, but I would like to say that rather than what I said, sport is a very important segment of human activity for me, that sport in me is this noble human activity that builds relationships between people and builds bridges among peoples and sometimes politicians destroy them. Croatia as a small country is indeed in world terms when it comes to sport is highly placed. It is clear that in every country regardless of the size and number of inhabitants in individual sports it is possible to appear an individual as a express talent, which, with a lot of denial, can, with hard work, achieve top sports range. But when a small country the size of Croatia, when its athletes in collective sports achieve top sports range, it is something special, perhaps for some time with the means it is available and difficult to explain. During the difficult times of creating an independent Croatia, sport played a very important role. In some parts of the world, Croatia is recognised not by its position, by its specificities in political, historical or geographical terms, but by its sports sizes, some of which are sitting here today in this Croatian Assembly. For example, who has not heard of Kostelic, Ivanisevic, Vlasicu, Permanica or Filipović in individual sports, but also of the Croatian football team, for the firemen, for Boban, Šuker and Ciru Blažević or the trophy handball players Balic, Đombu or Lina Cervar, basketball players Drazen Petrovic, Arapovic and Mirko Novosela, water poloist Bukić, Roy and Ratko Rudić. We all know those names. And now look at colleagues and colleagues who have been going on since Croatia's independence to this day with sports in Croatia. I've already said something, and I'm going to say it again, that by the end of the 1990s when it was worth working on promoting the Croatian state then no one, but nobody in these wartime conditions when footballers also played a peace tournament on open ground under grenades was interested in anyone at the time, in fact I would say hypocritical states and sports relations. As soon as some political relations were resolved, while at the same time the quality holders of collective sports were poor and could not monitor European and world trends, these clubs, I mean, primarily football and basketball, became too much of a burden for a country that then slowly pilatically washes its hands. By then, the Financial Police don't come to clubs in the 1990s, lets things go their own way, and then remembers that they're supposed to go into clubs and find a situation that the public authorities knew was exactly who they were. Of course, Croatia as a state that cannot even be praised as a rule of law could not destroy sport, so debts are left out of date and of course the time of transition has been announced. I know, but that's exactly how it had to be. Could it have been different to admit it at least openly? At the same time, we have to admit, and this is something that I am particularly concerned about, that in these and such conditions that reigned in Croatia, when one man decided about everything, there was an imminent injustice, and then those who were in some way more honest, such as the pulse "Istra" or even more drastic little club "The One" Youth Kapra from the Holy Sunday of Istria, which for the long state of 350 thousand kuna, was certainly a solution to the performance, such clubs suffered and felt discriminated against. Because the debt of several hundred million kunas is insignificant compared to the rural debt of several hundred thousand kunas. That little country club debt should be forced out. That's bad. Today, of course, when Croatia is approaching the European Union, there must be an adjustment, and as a country, we must accept European standards. And the models are offered here, and they should be discussed. After all, we're taking her to this House. However, I would like to say openly that the line should be drawn afterwards, because it is right for some fellow MPs to point out that the managers cannot draw profits from the transfer of players, and on the other hand, the state freezes for a certain period because the other exits do not have the debts of sports clubs. We've got in Spain, too. We're referring to the Spanish model. He's not exactly the best fit guy. In Spain, for example, The transfer of players occurs over the offshore company and the state of the player transfer kills only 20% of the taxes. But that's why in Italy, 90% of taxes are being taxed by the state. We don't have to apply one model at all, but one that will be more appropriate because we can't explain to people how we're going to freeze these debts, at the same time with a number of colonies of unemployed warriors, but we need to draw a line and there's no further deviation from this principle. The time has passed. You have an example of the Royal Real Club from Madrid, Santiago, which has a stadium called Santiago Bernabe and how it sells to the state that stadium, the city, I apologize, thank you, Mr. Arabovic, to the city of that stadium. The city buys it from taxpayers' funds and then gives it to real management. Well, we've had one attempt at such an example for a famous Croatian place, if you remember and I don't think we can accept you and those models. I want to make it clear that the only law in sport is the result and the result, and that's the law that's sacred, and all the rest are just state acts that have to be so conceived and that they can match the results. And now let's see, in my opinion, that this most important state act, the Sport Act, which, as Minister Primorac said, will be preparing for over six years. So, it was prepared by both the former and current government, but also the professional alliances, I would say the sports public, there were about 120 tribunes. And I don't want to politicise on that law, regardless of the political options we come from as advocates, but I want to pass a law that will benefit the sport. In the avoidance of politicisation, it is good that the motionary in Article 102 paragraph 4. stated that the words "sport and sport" were also avoided and thus avoided politicisation on the Kvacica above the letters to which we are more frequent prone, and thus reached and practical effect that you do not have to coordinate numerous acts in sports societies. And now what do I think of the proposal of the Law on Sport that lies ahead in our first reading? I would say in my sports dictionary that this art code deserves a very high score of 10, but the assessment of the weight of performance is much lower and I find it insufficient. More specifically, it should be said that the weight of performance is suitable only for professional clubs and there is no other look model. It weighs about 700 million, but professional sport participates in Croatia's sport with only a few percent. Then what about amateur sports? And let me also say that the state of rehab after a certain period leaves it to local self-government. What will local self-government do with them unless there's a decentralisation of the state? The other day I am talking about the proposal of this with my colleague and friend Lino Cervar, and we fully agree that this proposal of the Sport Act to the second reading must be corrected and concreteised further relations in sport, because otherwise, such as at the declarative level does not solve the accumulated problems. And I see that there will be no time, and then I will conclude that by the second reading, the proposer has to define a specific tax relief issue in sports activity, the state has to simply come to its balance sheet and see what it is that amount that we can set out for sport at this point. Whether redistribution or recognition of relief is the question, but I think primarily through the recognition of the investor's eases in sport because that way each individual environment will show a higher interest. Therefore, the rights of investors in the field of sport should be more precisely defined. In the law, I also need to determine the minimum percentage amount of the budget from the state to the units of local self-government that must be intended for sport. And it's very important, to me, and it's a matter of all sorts of questions, to find a model that defines the rights of investors in the field of sport. It will be easier to build sports facilities then, for it is unacceptable to, for example, make it easier to build sports facilities. Only in Istria County of 24 elementary schools that are in the county's only 11 have school sports halls, and 13 are missing, and the situation in high schools is even more tragic. I think that by the second reading, the promoter should also review Article 20 because if it is going to be a real situation to introduce professionalism into sports clubs, I wonder why the ministry, as provided for in Article 20, provides for a special commission. Thank you very much... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58231	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Franjo Arabovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58232	Thank you very much. Well, I'd like to correct just one incorrect quote in one very nice and quality presentation of fellow MPs. As for the postponement of the debt, the deferral of the debt applies only to amateur sports clubs. And those clubs that go by, that go to sports stock companies don't, they don't have a delay in their debts. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58233	Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain. She's gone, she's losing her word. Dear Representative Anton Kapraljevic. Same case, same fate. Dear Representative Jaksa Marasovic. Same case. Dear Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58234	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, here, it was said by several MPs that this bill came after six years of consideration, considered and lied to him, I suppose she tried both the former government and this government, after a number of round tables and debates. I agree and I think this is a good basis to talk about sports, that this is good work material, work material for first reading. We've heard a lot of suggestions that, I believe, the Proposer will install into this Law and we'll have it as such in another reading. Because I think the law in many of its articles is unspeakable. In particular, this applies to the part of the financing of sports. In fact, I in this Act except that it is taxed that sport is also financed certain parts of that sport from the state budget, from the units of local, or regional self-government. I would prefer that the promoter was more specific, so that he said what is the share in the budget of the units of local self-government, what is the share in regional self-government, or state-level. Because the fact that, let's just let that, in the bill of law, it's well-rounded. That this Law, we can read it like that, express good intentions and good desires. However, at the moment he tries to realize himself, we will surely encounter obstacles. What's fundamental in sports, in my opinion, is finance. You need to provide finance for quality sports, top-notch sports, not to mention amateur sports. Unless there's financial resources enough, and they're not there right now. They're not here right now. But then we make them such legal solutions that will respect the fact that we can't cover it financially with neither the state budget nor the budgets of the local self-government units, or regionally anything we want in sport. And when we talk about a network of sports facilities, I don't think there's anyone in this assembly who won't agree that she's more than necessary. That it is necessary that every elementary school, every high school has a hall, but simply we can define it as a intention, as a good wish, but certainly that in the next 8 years we will not be able to achieve it. Yeah. We say that the dubiosis is 700 million kuna, 700 million kunas are dubiosis in sport. And I'd say that that 700 million might be a double or triple-decree amount of real condition. It's a couple of clubs that I know for sure what they're into, so I can hardly believe they're only 700 million. And that's where I would agree with my colleague, Mr. Lek, who was just talking about this. Nothing in this law will ever get rid of except that we'll bring these dubiouss down to zero in sport. In this law, in my opinion, we have not offered solutions to how these dubiosiss come out, that is, that our amateur sport and professional sport, the top sport will continue with practically the same or slightly higher financial means, and again in 4 or 5 years it will not come into dubiosis. So, I believe that we, this bill, of course, if this High House adopts it, have legalized one condition that we have and the problems we have in sports accumulated over a few years, over a 10-year period where individual clubs have accumulated losses year after year. Now these losses are down to one level where something needs to be done, and then the promoter came up with a bill like this, mostly one large part right now in its articles on the resolution of these losses. The biggest losses are in football, I'm sure. However, we too will solve these losses in paper. To settle with one law. But what next? We will adopt this Law, however, and so far, it has certainly existed and it is certain that there are firm legal provisions that clubs that have accumulated losses have also committed to make up for these losses. Also, so far and now and at this point, all conditions have been met for bankruptcy in certain clubs that have been in dubiosis for years. What is particularly unacceptable, especially unacceptable, is that these same clubs that have been hoarding up losses for years are buying players. And now in such a situation of dubiosis, they buy players in million amounts, and the rule of law doesn't really react. How will this law solve trading to players? I didn't see in this law that this matter, this matter, was an attempt to deal with it. How to solve a situation where a young man or, let's say, a gifted athlete or athlete for whom parents sign any contracts and at 16, 17 years of age are sold conditionally, and then in our clubs they train, train, prepare, and after the first signing of a professional contract, or when it expires, that player is sold, and in fact most of the cookies that sports mechanics buy. And that the club that practically created a top athlete has no interest at all but the cover of the role he invested in that player to lead him to the status of a top player. And this law, that is, this bill, does not resolve. When we talk about health care in sport, the fact that at this point, this preventive health care and checks are actually taking place in unconditional rooms. That the question is how if the Parliament adopts it and this Law is implemented because we do not have enough specialist in medicine, or sports medicine specialist, and there were also questions about school medicine, although I do not agree with the said and I think that specialists of school medicine in the context of their activities and what they really know in the profession can carry out and do quality preventive checks in the sports section at school. I see that time is running out, so I would just look back on a few questions not only that interest me, which are not in this reasoning of the bill of days. I would call on the legislators of this Law to at least sometimes point out the enquiries that we Parliamentarians have discussing about this bill, this is particularly true for these managers in sport and how this law will solve, why the executive authority does not react in the current situation where it has all the conditions to launch bankruptcy for some clubs and where it is quite evident that these clubs that are in losses buy players and pay them at millions. My colleague also asked the promoter a moment ago what about the move in professional sports clubs as proposed in this Act, i.e. in sports stock companies, so it would be good for the motion to go out for a pay phone occasionally and explain the issue, i.e. question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58235	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58236	You see, dear colleague... You say we all know there are no sports halls, but we also know that there's no money for those sports halls, it's going to take 7, 8 years for the money to be collected, but you see it's not exactly true, because if the state has 700 million kunas to forgive the top sport of the football clubs, then obviously there are 700 million kunas, it's just a matter of political decision in which these 700 million kunas will be spent. [[/The speaker's off, you don't understand.]] We've already told that 50 times for 700 million kuna to build 100 sports halls. With 700 million kunas to be invested in amateur sports, recreational sport, school sport, student sport has no child in Croatia that does not deal with some form of sport, there is no it, but it is still a matter of political decision. You know when a business operator falls into losses then the state sends him into bankruptcy normally, workers lose jobs, no one cries over them, but don't you dare send that same state into bankruptcy a professional football club, and we all know that there's money laundering, there's a lot of money, maybe a crime scene, I don't know it's a police matter, but does that 700 million kuna, where it would be a priority to spend, is it for these kids or for professional football players? Where would you go? What logic? What logic makes us? What logic makes the government forgives these professionals instead of directing them to the kids and having a healthy nation. He's got money, no political will.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58237	Replica response, respected representative Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58238	Thank you very much. Sir, I would much agree with you, but I can't agree when you say there's money, probably referring to this 700 million. No, I assure you that there is no money, that money has been picked up by all kinds of sportsmen who bought, reselling players, and the state has seen and tolerated all of it at that time, and unfortunately, and now the state tolerates that the clubs we know are in the losses, which, by the way, are largely part of the law, in large part, and brings in because it resuscitates these losses that they are buying players at this very moment, are giving millions for these players, and in fact, the state and those who should... institutions do not react by not covering at least part of those debts accumulated in 700, and I say that it must be a million and a half, or a billion and a half, or maybe 2 billion, and clearly if all the institutions of the legal system did their job the way that the law allows them and how they should be done then these 700 million would surely be found for the purpose of building a network of sports facilities in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58239	Second replica, Honored Representative Franjo Arabovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58240	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't know how many times I have to say it again, well, the ones who just walked into the assembly, so they wanted to report as if they were being recorded, and it's not 700 million kunas forgiven, it's not 700 million kunas, it's the only thing that's been delayed from paying amateur clubs. We keep saying it's for athletes, that it's for professional clubs, someone took 700 million, and now the state needs to get it back. Another thing, as far as the manager, Mr. Šišljagić, we are at the first presentation of Mr. Primorac, he said he would let us here hear our opinion on what to do with the managers in sport and certainly until the second reading the managers in sport will take their place, so they will have to have their own association and will have to have all the licenses and will know who can deal with management and who the managers are in sport. Otherwise, a very good exposure to fellow Shisljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58241	Replica response, respected representative Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58242	I've also raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure and a response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58243	Is that a violation of the Rules of Procedure? Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58244	The breach of Rules of Procedure of Article 209 in connection with Articles 210, 211, 222, 213, and it concerns that Mr. Arapovic in the replica can replicate to me, not Mr. Stazic, and Mr. Arapović has replicated to Mr. Stazic because I did not say in my debate what you were saying at the beginning of your replica. As for the reply to the replica. So we have before us a proposal for a Law on Sport, I said that the bill is a good working material to discuss here in the Parliament about it, to point out what our opinion is, and through our opinion and what they think in our area of origin, and certainly would agree with those who are thinking in a way that should have adopted the first national strategy. That it was meant to bring a goal that we were going to do from amateur sports or professional sports, and when we talk about managers, then I'm just standing behind what I said is that in our sport top-notch in some, in some sports individual and when we talk about managers that it's a lot of cases, 99% of the cases of those people who work past the existing laws, who buy players, resell players, and that all of this goes past the club that actually created that player. And that it is inadmissible, and it is also unacceptable for the club or state to bear costs, or bear wages, to pay big money for what these people stole from Croatia's sport or to steal from the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58245	Dear Representative Branimir, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58246	Thank you very much, Mr. President. And here I am going to get involved in this debate about this bill proposal and this initiative that was held in the parliamentary procedure. I also support what has started to clear up relations in sport or rather an attempt to clarify these relationships that have been settled for years. More than a decade. So the situation in sports is really not such that we can boast about it or that we can highlight it as a positive example. I'm not going to go into an analysis of some of the articles in this work version, the proposed version of the bill, and I'm going to try to show the situation in sports through a particular club, a football club that I'm working with, and I'm going to have insight into what's been going on in the past, so I'm going to say 12, 13 years. Since in those 12, 13 years, on two occasions, I acted as president of the Osijek Football Club. It was the first time in February 1994. So even at the time of the Homeland War, the occupation of the good part of eastern Croatia, near the battlefield. All practically a mile, two from the city of Osijek. In moments of uncertainty before the Flash and Storm, in moments of severe economic destruction, difficult financial situations in the areas of eastern Croatia, but I can say that in 1994, the football club Osijek functioned as normally in terms of settlement of its financial obligations both towards the Croatian state and other suppliers. So what I'm saying is that in 1994 and 1995, the football club's gyro-account Osijek wasn't blocked. Never at that time, at that time, even though we were working, existed under extraordinary circumstances. So under war conditions. Although we were faced with a difficult economic situation and a great financial poverty, we settled as a club and our obligations to the state and to suppliers and how normal we functioned. And then in these circumstances, I remember well as the president of the Osijek Football Club it was necessary somewhere 3 and a half million German marks to function such an ambition as Osijek had at the time, and the 1994/1995 competition season. The ambitions of the Osijek football club were to take a position, to enter the European competition, so to reach third place and compete in the UEFF cup, which is what has been achieved. So the price of taking a third position in the then Croatian football league was somewhere between 3 million and 4 million German marks of this plant, thus financing this plant, which was necessary and inevitable in order to achieve the set target. I think we've finished this competition season with about three and a half million German marks. So 12 to 14 million kunas of the time clearly state the need to close the financial structure and under these circumstances, but also confirms that, in these exceptional circumstances, when there was an intention to act within the law and respecting and the law by fulfilling both its tax and financial obligations towards the state, and also according to other suppliers, that it could work and operate. It was normally necessary to close that financial structure in terms of sponsorships, donations, investment of certain strategic partners in order to sow that money. But in those circumstances, we've sown that money, but we've managed it rationally. We have not competed and exaggerated in terms of stimulating players, giving astronomical and abnormal premiums, we have already sought to achieve the maximum by rational spending of these funds, the target and plan outlined, to carry out our obligations to the state as a taxpayer and to carry out our obligations to other suppliers. In 1994 and 1995, we achieved success, a full plan, and in June of the month, and I, as president of the professional and management work, also thanked the duties, functions and showed that the result could be achieved, but that it could also be done, worked, run that club in a way that respects, comply with the positive legal requirements and that financial obligations could be fulfilled as a taxpayer. I stress this because until the autumn of 1995, the war year after the Flash and Storm account was never blocked. New management comes in 1995 in June and September, October 1995 for the first time in the history of the Osijek football club the account has been blocked and the blockade has not been downloaded until today. So the blockade lasts for 11 years. And now for the first time I'm going to expose, spread everything that other clubs hide like a snake's feet and report on the financial situation of the Osijek Football Club after 11, 12-year-old giro account blockade. With June 30th last year, when I again assumed the post of president of the Osijek football club. The football club “Osjek” is located in a blockade and total debt is 74770812 kuna. Of that amount, therefore of 74 million and 770 thousand debt to the state is 34 million 515 thousand 408 kuna and 30 June. According to Osijek City, 6 million 595 thousand 272 kuna. According to companies owned by the city or county 4 million 455 thousand 748 kuna and 79 limes. Therefore, the debt and blockade of more than 70 million kunas speaks enough about how the Osijek football club works, which is no exception, but it is a rule of operation and business of all practically football clubs, i.e. the vast majority of sports clubs and various other sports disciplines dealing with sports in some professional frameworks or semi-professional frameworks. And I don't want to put myself in the same basket of amateur clubs that just don't have minimum means of normal functioning. But I'm looking back at this part that applies to the professional part. At the same time, NK "Osjeka" claims amount to 7m and 100 000 euros. So somewhere around 8 and a half million, 7 million, 50 million kuna. So 50 million kunas at this time of demand for the NK “Osjeka” according to the physical face. I won't mention his name to him for seven million euros this time. The suit request for Igor Cvitanovic is 60,000 euros. A request to the FIF against the football club "Freeda Osijek" 20,000 euros, a request to the FIF against the Zelica football club, 10 000 euros. So 7mm and 100 000 euros are currently the demands of the Osijek football club and judicial disputes are under way. So I want to make it clear that there is a possibility and a model of the normal functioning of the club and in these difficult circumstances and conditions, because when we took over this club this summer, so on June 30, 2005, we asked as a new management to subscribe to the draft and find a formula and way for the normal functioning of the club. The only way for the club to function normally is to function and operate through the Association of Citizens and we established the Association of Citizens “Osjek” in 2005 so that it can function normally and spend the money needed to make the club work. So, by taking over the club and in these difficult, difficult circumstances also since the summer of 6 months, we have been fulfilling our obligations, paying taxes and contributions and to the state as well as other suppliers which I want to make clear to the fact that there is a way, there is also a possibility in these circumstances if there is a sense of responsibility for the job being done legally.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58247	Dear Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58248	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here I have listened carefully to all of you for these two days and I must say that I understand those who have advocated this law and those who have opposed it, and I am about to belong to a group of those who give this bill a sufficient grade. I also agree with those who today have said that it is not entirely clear to them either the purpose or the purpose of this law. But I don't agree with those who have been brave enough to say yes today to also remind those of their colleagues who mentioned taxpayers and citizens and said it was a simple demagogy. I think it's incorrect, because here we must certainly mention the taxpayers and our citizens we represent. Namely, this debt mentioned try to recalculate it to the number of Croatian families that will one day cover it and you will see that it will come at 500 to 1000 kn per family and it is not small money. But as far as the bill itself is concerned, I want to tell you that in the opening part, we have a presentation and an assessment of the situation and we have problems that are the goal or at least they are mentioned here that they want to be solved. They are classified in 15 points, but what we have not told our colleagues and colleagues is that in the adoption of the previous law and in the amendment of the amendment of previous laws in this area and in '97. and '98. and in 2001, the same group of problems is always mentioned today. So for 10 years we've been talking about them and for 10 years we haven't done anything to get off the dead end. Now that's a problem we need to start talking about very seriously. But I'm going to tell you that I've given myself a little effort and since I've had this weekend I've asked a few citizens in Kreneya, in Rijeka where I live what they think of that law, I'm a little younger to open up our web pages and read that law and to manifest themselves. You know what the citizens are interested in, what's the interest of taxpayers in this law? They're interested and 95% of them are interested in the right to sport for their children, for their grandchildren. They are interested in the right to a high-quality sports school competition for their children and their grandchildren. They are interested in quality and professional trainers for their children and their grandchildren. Only after I'd say a great distance will one of them mention the desire to be recreational themselves, and everything else almost doesn't interest you at all. They resent the idea that their tax money would be spent and spent on covering debts so-called. Professional clubs. It's absolutely disgusted. Priorities are very clear to the citizens, and I think we have to respect them. You ask around your constituency units. I assure you that in my constituency is what I said exactly, no matter what someone declares war demagogy again. In fact, what these citizens told me further, and why they don't believe that this law is going to infuse some new shifts in the field of sports is next. They simply asked me, and who has stopped you from bringing a strategy for sport development for the past ten years. What was I supposed to say? So they asked me, did the law so far prevent more children in schools from being involved in sports? Did the law so far prevent the pursuit and direction of gifted children? Was the law so far to blame that there was no positive selection in sport among coaches, etc., etc.? Namely, these are colleagues and colleagues of fundamental problems, indeed based on the problems that citizens want us to deal with and who want us to solve. And this law essentially moves how it goes from the roof, not from the foundation, from the roof. This law gives me hope to parents and their children, and this law gives new opportunities to sports tycoons, without further ado. What happened in sports the last 10 years my colleagues have been saying, but I'd just like to add something else to that. The same thing happened in all other activities financed from the state, county or local budget. And what happened? Many incompetent, many unprofessional and uncreative individuals have found that sports can live well without almost giving anything and fighting back. It happens unfortunately not just in sports. How many politicians are we, both local and regional, and we blame it? Absolutely we are. We've also made it possible for the good part to happen. To infiltrate just like that, party colleagues to be employed, relatives to be employed in such structures that are on the back of a clear budget. What does this law bring? In my opinion, it's nothing new. It's proposed to the council, as we suggested a few weeks ago, you remember one agency, and then one council, then directors. So we just multiply the number of bodies and structures that will be additionally fed from the budget, state, regional or local. We amnest those who created this enormous debt mentioned. Who's answering? No one is responsible for the enormous damage that is, which will be clearly covered, we know how, with taxpayers' money. And suggest what? We suggest that we simply transfer responsibility to local self-government in a large part of these jobs that we mention. It's my opinion of my colleague and colleague that there will really be no major shifts after this law. Namely, no laws, no plans, no strategies, no committees, no alliances will solve the problem of Croatian sport. In order for problems to really begin to solve, I think it takes a lot more political will, a lot more political determination, and that means clear and political ethics. And that means we have to eliminate all those who live on sports, not sports. It should be recognised that everything that is now called sport, culture, science, education does not belong to sports, culture, science or education. Finally, it should be said that much of our problems in the Republic of Croatia are just stemming from the non-compliance and non-compliance of laws, statutes, plans, programmes, however, due to the lack of positive selection of personnel, due to the lack of professional staff, or professional criteria, due to the lack of organisation and coordination of both horizontal and vertical ones. My colleagues and colleagues, maybe politicians don't belong in politics. We've heard that today and Friday many times, but our responsibility at this point is the biggest, without further ado, the biggest. And we certainly won't get away from it, no matter how much we try, or even through this law. I hope, if someone listened to us these two days that would be more useful to sport than our debate, because she was correct, then she was honest. Many of us really wanted to warn about those key points, rather than the law itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58249	Thank you. Honorable representative Lucia Chikesh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58250	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Much has been said in this long debate, but I will respect the profession and all of ours, a colleague of Biserka and colleagues sitting here, all top athletes, whose sport is a narrow area and activities and interests and who have positively shown themselves about this law. Of course, here and there with which a smaller or larger supplement, but mostly positively manifested and I can't do any different, because they're a profession, that's their area of action. However, I would just briefly refer to those articles of this law that regulate sports for children and youth, i.e. sports at school, as well as those articles that arrange sports for people with disabilities, which I think is somewhere between 44th and 49th. I take these articles above all as a lesson in how to improve lifestyle, change bad habits and in a safe and well-checked way by personal perseverance to live healthier. The human body is designed to move and today's way of life is not suitable for the human body. A particular problem is school kids. By going to school, children change their way of life significantly. Long school classes during the day and during the week rarely in overcrowded and inadequate classrooms, and then continuing to sit at home, whether it is with a homework, whether it is with a TV or a computer. Movement decreases, and this decreases significantly, and physical education is so far insufficient in educational institutions. And it's not uncommon for school children to start developing these different risk factors, especially increased body weight, increased blood pressure. If we add a bad diet to that, it's a problem, so-called consumption. fast food, even infrequently bad habits that occur at school age, which is smoking and alcohol, we see where all vices are exposed to that young body and they systematically and persistently destroy it. How many percent of the school children have problems with the acquired diseases of the engine system. We know this well who are dealing directly and directly with this population, but also parents who have to put a lot of effort and effort into taking their children to therapy, either because of functional or cosmetic interference with the locomotive. The proposal for this law provides school children with facilities for additional sport activities under the supervision of a highly educated professional who will program and carry out extracurricular sports activities on the basis of established general and specific student health skills. This determination and decision are made by doctors specialists in school medicine. So far, they're not enough, which doesn't mean there won't be any more. And we hope in that sense. This Law deals greatly with the problem of free time for students. It prevents a very long stay of students on the street and leaving children to themselves, and we know how negative it affects them. It also regulates the ability to practice sports and those who are less happy than we are, i.e. the regulation of sports for people with disabilities. Of course, there is much more to be done in these areas to implement this Law and to consume children and persons with disabilities and all that this Law gives them. I have an analysis in front of me from the county from which I come, the Split-Dalmatia County, where a report on the construction of sports halls in Split-Dalmatia County is presented, so I would disagree with those colleagues because, I say, I have officially received this report from the Ministry of Science and Education. And where it is foreseen in our county for the period 2004 to 2006. 8 sports halls at a total price of more than 35 million kuna. If this still needs to be done, I think that this investment in sports halls should be coordinated and adapted to existing sports facilities for disabled persons as should be more intensively harmonized with the transition of school teaching to one-way work, and thus restore the halls to students in extracurricular time. It's not easy, it's a long process, but I don't think it's inaccessible. As far as I have a report from our Split-Dalmatia County, over the past 4 years we can hope that these 3 programmes that are parallel and we can tell each other that we will greatly improve the work of students during teaching, and we will also significantly increase sports in extracurricular time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58251	Thank you very much. We got two, three? Okay. We have three replicas. Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58252	Dear Mrs. Chikesh, you spoke more in this discussion of how the ideal situation would be not what this Law actually allows. I wonder where you read or read in the Law that this Law regulates the question, that is, the question of free time for students? In this Law regarding extracurricular sports at school, i.e. school... There are no clubs but no newspapers compared to that old law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not a single newspaper. School sports companies now, before school student clubs. Before in the rule that school halls must be for school children, now to have priority over those. Not a single newspaper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58253	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58254	I wouldn't agree with you. Surely there's a newspaper, sure there's a newspaper and sure as hell that this program, and sure as hell this program will regulate that kids can deal with school halls in extracurricular weather. It doesn't, we don't have any conditions so far or...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58255	Replica, Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58256	Mrs. Chickesh, I understand your need to praise the law given by the government. I understand completely, but you claim that in school sport this law brings the paper, it represents that it will solve the problems. So you said he was finally solving the accumulated problems. Please compare the articles of the Law. Compare. Nothing, but there's absolutely no newspaper. So you know when that would work out? Teachers of physical education in schools have been paid for two hours, outside of their working hours dealing with these children. So out of these 700 million kunas that they've been set aside, I don't know, 50 million kunas to be paid another five hours. Halls, at least where there are halls in schools. So that they may deal with these children, that these halls are full of these children, and that these teachers may take care of them. That would be some kind of newspaper, but some kind of a slight shift. So that's why we're talking against this law, not because this government is proposing it, not because of it. It's because we're calling on the government to change those provisions until the second reading, to make some kind of a difference. Of those 700 million kunas he forgives these football players and clubs, at least reroute part of it to those kids. To pay those teachers because just like that and only in that way will those children be in the halls and only in that way, just like that and in this way they will be engaged in sports and sport. So let's not talk about what's not. There are no papers in the law, read articles, deny me, quote me which article, which makes the provision in the new law improves the situation in school sport.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58257	Correction, Mrs. Chickesh, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58258	Replica. Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Oh, Mr. Stazic, the paper is the adoption of a law on sports that has never existed before. It's a novelty. I'm sorry, it's a newspaper. And you got caught, we're diagonally different. You're only interested in money, and you've caught that 700 million kuna as a drunk float, and I'm curious what these kids will get from this law in order to improve their health status. I'm interested in that, too. I don't care about the 700 million you keep talking about, and I don't think it's based. And we can't be in diametrically different people, different opinions can't be found at one point.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58259	Replica, Mrs. Vesna Škulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58260	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Chikesh, like this. As for sports for people with disabilities, otherwise the Sport Act existed before. There was no, there was really no area of sport for dealing with, or for people with disabilities. However, this Law only regulates the top sports of disabled people. However, the Ministry of Education, Science has not implemented a single measure of the National Strategy. So none of the halls for people with disabilities are adapted. I don't know how many schools it's been lately to get kids into schools, let alone gyms. And I also have to say that in the center of Dubrava, which has its own hall and its own swimming pool, unfortunately, such a single center in the Republic of Croatia in decomposition, windows fall on children, ramps collapse and the state does not see the interest so for this only centre that serves 200 children in education, and I can only think of the state of the sports hall, I really want to know where the money is.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58261	Mrs. Chickesh's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58262	Thank you. And yesterday we debated in an off-the-book lady... about how much it is invested in adapting space to people with disabilities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I know the situation in Split-Dalmatia County and I know that it is being invested and that there is much work to do and that the results are already being seen, and how long should it be, ma'am? They'll cover the size of it. We've got to be realistic or we're gonna put the blanket on or our legs are gonna peek or our heads, something they're gonna want. We need to be as realistic as possible, but in Split-Dalmatia County, there is much work to be done to ensure that not only sports halls match and adapt with people with increased needs, people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58263	It is Mr. Representative and Vice President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58264	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I must say that I certainly belong to that group that advocates the need to adopt a new Law on Sports, but at the same time I believe that this Law should elaborate what our Constitution provides, among other things in Article 68, for the state to encourage and assist the care of physical culture and sport, and then for Article 69(3), that everyone is obliged, as part of his powers and activities, to pay particular attention to and protect the health of people, nature and the human environment and, of course, Article 43, where each is guaranteed the right to free association in order to protect his breakthroughs and interests, as well as in sports. Why am I starting this debate like this? Because it seems to me that some of these issues aren't sufficiently elaborated, some are just being named, and some are dealing with organizationally... which deal with functional issues are so elaborated that they have actually lost what is most important to a man who needs to be dealt with and who needs to be given special care in sports and who needs to provide sport as an activity in order to actually protect his health and develop his physical and mental abilities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Namely, among other things here is specifically about sports and school alliances, about providing space, about sports at higher education, but again from the aspect of student associations, monitoring and directing children and youth in... sports, reshaping sports companies, professional sports companies into sports stock companies, then by law regulations that sports clubs, associations to delay competition... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the principles and elements of the system of sports competitions are determined, the tasks considered to be professional activities are determined. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With regard to buildings, all chapters and sub-chapters in sport, in health care, etc. are dedicated, however, when we talk about the rights to individual sport, collectiveity, etc. There is very little then, and especially very little that should be ensured from the aspect of the function of a country that encourages sport as a special activity of people. I must first of all point out one important thing. You know, it's nice to categorize athletes on professional, categorized, or superior, etc., but the key issue that the Sport Act has to resolve is the issue of dealing with sports as such, and above all what's called recreational, amateur, and then competitive, and then as part of the competition we can talk about this amateur, we can talk about great, we can talk about professional sport, but if we talk about professional sport from the aspect of its economics, from the aspect of its functionality then we can talk and possibly that such sport can be organised and as companies if we accept it then, at the very least, we should get that part out of this Law, it's not the subject of this Law. This is not the subject of the Sport Act, it should leave such an opportunity to the Sport Act and say that the special law will develop the question of the establishment of companies in professional sport, then it should not be just basketball and football, because in the end, if you look at Article 18, which in paragraph 1, says, "If there are more than 50% of athletes who have signed professional contracts, then there are many other sports activities or sports forms of action in which this norm could be fulfilled." Then if we were to pass a special law that would regulate companies in the power of sport, professional sport, then we could bring in a special chapter on reshaping existing societies from the aspect that we actually resolve the question between others and debt in these sports, but if the reason for debt and demand in our professional clubs is football and basketball possibly to get companies, then it's completely wrong, then it's totally wrong, we have to get companies as units that will be able to carry out professional sports on their own and secure such revenues so that they can finance professional sport and have extra profits, otherwise there will be no motive. I claim that in our terms in many segments, even in basketball now and in football, that is not possible. ... who doesn't believe let him actually look at the list or the average number of viewers at our football games and sports. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is simply not possible to cover the cold drive, let alone finance all the other costs that they have foreseen in that part and which they need to look at. In particular, this is important in terms of the fact that, in fact, many sports facilities and terrains should remain either owned by the state or owned by units of local self-government as they have generally been and that they are practically in reshaping these sports companies can go. Now what? What's it gonna be? Here is mentioned that in reshaping sports societies will go of course claims, assets that? What property? And here is an important legal and theoretical question that is not only important, legal and theoretical, but also a very important practical issue. It's so-called. the question actually personal property, but not from the aspect of the personal property that serves the person... for the maintenance of personal hygiene rather than resulting from the personality of a person who has that personality as an asset. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Like what? one athlete for his, top or professional athlete with his name has this and that price on the sports market, this is the result of his personality which is the result of his knowledge and skills which in that domain he can present. How much is that worth? Who's going to evaluate that? Of course, other than the market, etc. It is very, very important, but in such a segment the question is raised which is the share of this athlete in this commercial sports society from the aspect of his values that he has brought into this society, so for which he is not always paid acquitably by his values present on the market etc., etc., among other things, because it came from sports associations that enabled him from that if you want recreational and amateur to not know top-notch sport to deal with and to acquire certain knowledge and skills and everything else. In this, we haven't solved that question here at all. And in such a situation, there will actually be one dark space again between what will enter into transformation and what tomorrow and from that transformed company will actually come to the market where individuals will open through so-called. sports managers earn huge profits and huge money, i.e. that society has no such income, while at the same time such companies remain in huge losses. The other thing is, I wanted to say and what's far more important. To worry about the health of the nation, to worry about the state in sport how the Constitution requires it is, in fact, the most important if you want or the most crucial issue of recreational amateur sport especially children, young people, if you want older people. The issue of older people is ignored. It is an extremely important question in sport for the sake of the rest, for maintaining the condition and if you want preventive action and if you want a form of therapeutic action on certain types of diseases related to the third age. I don't know about boneache, rheumatism and so on and so on and to diabetes because sport can act as a specialist form to reduce weight, reduce cholesterol and not list anything. I'm no expert on that part except for what I consulted with the experts, so they told me what I managed to remember. But it is far, far, far important because it affects both health and sports recreation and everything else. Therefore, professional sports should separate things. Here we need to have a situation where professional athletes, their societies, where they are organized, make money for themselves and for profit, not that the state stimulates them and units of local self-government. With top-notch sports, we have a mutual relationship between the social community of the state and top-notch athletes who perform top-notch sports, if you want the community, the nation. They present the state and in this regard not only do we enjoy their top results but at the same time we actually achieve through the promotional form of the country and the nation a whole series of indirect non-direct, and sometimes direct benefits that are particularly important in tourism. And in such a way, it is certain that it is necessary to provide adequate, adequate recognition and these rewards that are seen here. But then there's something that needs to be made up in that segment that's very important. It cannot then be said in Article 39 that a company within the meaning of this law is a company registered to carry out the sporting activities prescribed by this law other than the sporting activity of participation in sport competitions. The point of a company, professional sport, is to participate in a competition, otherwise there's nothing to do. He'll lose everything. So it's obviously wrongly set up. But that's where we need to pull the delimitation line. Differentiation to the specifics, so if you want differentiation to the specissima. Compared to professional sports according to top sports, amateur and ultimately recreational sports for which we must be interested all. ... I would like to say a lot more, or rather, but I don't have the time, which I would like to point out, is this question when the state gives up demand and demand and when, like that unit of local self-government, it can be denied. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think the question here is, what do you get from sports society? If we do not calculate interest then it can be a contribution to sports society and recreation, but if we charge interest it can only be further deepening the crisis in which it is located and delaying the solution to the problem it is in. For this reason, I think that this law will need to work very well on and do so until the final proposal, because in fact some key issues in which the national and state interest of the Republic of Croatia has not yet been fully worked out, but for the first reading it can be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58265	Thank you very much. We have one replica, Mr. Franjo Arabovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58266	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd just like to replicate a statement from Mr. President when he was talking about fans. So neither this law nor what we voted on a few days ago to prevent riots will get any results unless we have a mechanism to apply these laws. So today at stadiums in the Republic of Croatia in national leagues, we don't have a large number of fans, people don't come. I'd say 50% doesn't come out of fear of chaos. For example, I'm going to tell you the example of today's match in Cibona, in the hall. The karate wasn't for tonight's game two hours ago. Six thousand tickets. So the next derby between Hajduk and Dinam will be full of Maksimir. But if we start to apply the law. So we can... Whatever it is I think this is a good suggestion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It means doing it until the second reading and trying to use it on the ground. And then we'll all be happier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58267	Thank you. Mr. Arlovic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58268	It seems to me that a respected colleague of Arabovic that we didn't understand each other until the end. I haven't talked to that aspect of fans about riots and their mutual conflicts between fans and fans' groups, so if you want clubs. I was speaking from the aspect of the quality of the game of sports events that are staged by so-called. If I may use that term professional sports clubs. We have a lot of sports professional clubs in terms of this law that are now being offered that are actually hosting sports events that are at the level of amateur sports. And in that respect, there's no quality, there's no interest that people want to see. When you have a meeting of Dinamo-Hajduk then you know that you will be raised to that level to interest you much more with naturally fanish passions and everything else as today Cibona when she appears on the international scene. The Cibona has begun to provide extraordinary parties that need to support sports in a way that achieves sports results, and that is why people come to see it. But of course that's the goal of sports, professional sport. However, we are bound by this law, bound contrary to my opinion, Article 43. The constitution because it's about associations, we commit professional athletes, sports clubs that have more than 50% of athletes with a signed professional contract that have to be transformed into commercial sports companies and marketed. Those with such a capacity as "Glory Belupo", so if you want "Međimurje" who are good teams for our opportunities, but for the professional sport that requires them to make such incomes that they can't exist, and they will have to, by the force of this law, and in such a situation, that question from that point of view I wanted to say is not fully worked out. So this law makes one whole series of things. It still needs to be worked on and the possibility of transforming sports companies into professional companies, especially when it comes to professional sport, into a special law, not to be resolved by this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58269	Thank you very much. And as the last in an individual debate, Mr. Representative Mario Zubovic, who is not present, loses his right to debate. We've been going to clubs for five minutes. The first is Club SDSS Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac, who also doesn't have a right to lose. Then, on behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain has.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58270	Dear Vice-President, Secretary of State, distinguished gentlemen of the Parliament, well, yes, we all more or less realized that our most popular clubs went bankrupt. So what happens now? The state intends to wash or forgive those debts. On the other hand, we have a situation where managers in these clubs are very rich. And in a rational mind, probably in this room and outside of it, it's not clear why someone is pushing on the head of a club when they know they're going to face an impossible mission in advance, means a constant search for money, or a struggle that the club doesn't financially crash. A long question that is also asked, is this about altruists, people who are meant to sacrifice themselves for the community, or is this about people who are parallel, clearly with that sacrifice thinking about themselves and then convulsing a huge benefit to themselves. Clearly, I don't mean some local amateurs, etc. Clubs, I mean, these leading clubs. We all agree, too, that when professional football is due to the fact that every other kuna is unrecorded, unaccounted for, and that is exactly what it is meant to mean, under quotes "to seek out this altruism" by the most respected husbands of this nation who are so devotedly throwing themselves at the rescue of football. However, what does this reshaping bear? In my view, it's a reshaping as the legislator proposes simply one impossible mission, it's impossible. It's possible it's just a bankruptcy. Why? Why is it not possible to reshape? Well, first of all, because this law is in conflict with the Company Act. But what will happen to what is important, what does the legislator propose this review of the sports club's operations over the last five years? We all know there's not a single club that's done business in this country properly. I'm talking about these leaders again. We probably all agree that we should put order into professional football, because the freedom these clubs have probably had in our community so far has no one. That's how it had to be, that's how it was. But if he does, and there's going to be bankruptcy, because it's the most elegant detachment to clubs, then who's going to run the clubs? What's going to happen there? What will the bankruptcy managers do that no company has ever done under the quotes "has been able to get on their feet"? So much in that part, I doubt the success of this law, but on the other hand, I have no doubt that the greatest benefit from this law or such a reshaping of bankruptcy will be drawn from bankruptcy managers, lawyers, notebooks, auditors and, above all, sports mechanics, or sports. I'd like to be wrong, but differently down through bankruptcy, I can't solve my dues either Dinamo or Hajduk or Osijek, and I don't know Split or Rijeka or anything like that. In July 2000, Mr. Churchvenac mentioned that Dinamo owed the state 303.2 million kuna, Hajduk 192.5 million kuna, Osijek 54.4 million, Rijeka 47.3 million kuna, totalling four clubs of 577.5 million kuna. We just heard Mr. Glavas say that on today's demand or duebiosis Osijek is 75 million kuna, which says that this number, mentioned by the minister of 700 million kuna, should be increased by at least 40%, which will say that the closer truth is a figure of one billion kuna than 700 million kuna. What gentlemen are absurd about absurdities, however, is the transfer of these management rights over sports companies to local self-government. Do the ministry gentlemen know what problems this local self-government is dealing with in the first place? Well, it's not the City of Zagreb that has six billion kuna. Our counties have an average budget of 200 million kuna, 6 billion kuna I was going to say. Clubs should start at zero, but I'll say once again, local self-government can't take care of general hospitals, which is far more important than professional clubs, let alone take care of these professional clubs. Clearly amateur sport is something else. There should be clear heads together, help those little kids, because everybody, they're gone on stage, we know what's going on on the street, how many drugs there are, and sport is probably going against drugs, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58271	Thank you. On behalf of the LS club Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58272	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honored representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. I think lately it's as rare when we make an impression in the public that all our problems in sports will be solved if we adopt a new Sport Act. And I have to admit, no one would be happier than me if that were true. That would be good, that would be nice, but I'm afraid by passing the Sport Act we won't solve these many problems that Croatian sport is plagued by. First of all, I think that the premise of the legislator with which he is going with this bill is wrong, and that is that Croatian sport is possible under one common denominator. Also, it's not like that. Croatian sport is not a unique category and problems in many segments of this sport are not unique because neither are interests unique. Somewhere it is, the interests are expressed more, and somewhere else less. Also, at least if I remember the Prime Minister's opening exhibition last Friday when he was presenting it, unfortunately I was not in Parliament, but what I was able to see through the media, it seems to me that this law was actually written because of all of our relationships, primarily in professional football, means mostly about clubs from these major Croatian cities, Split, Zagreb, Rijeka and Osijek, that they were in some way a state in those clubs that was that red light, an alarm that was in some way conditional and forced people in the ministry to offer this law and to try to resolve this law by saying all of these dubioses that exist. But I'm not afraid that, for some time, we feel that we are able to kill the entire ox because of the weight of meat and that in my opinion there are clearly other laws that could regulate all these relationships that have been discussed here today and some colleagues. It doesn't make sense that in the professional league, big money turns, and then we actually realize that there's no money. We are witnessing that every day some people from Brazil are being bought, that they are dealing with millions of euro amounts, that they are being compensated astronomically large and that you are actually an average citizen of the Republic of Croatia in their lives not to be able to earn but probably hard to write some times. And it seems to me that it shouldn't have passed the Sport Act, but I say, just to implement other laws that could regulate the whole series, obviously this black or gray economy which, for years, has been dominant in ours, above all I say in this professional sport. But not in all sports, but above all, it's mostly seen in football and basketball. What the same thing to say is that politics is also involved, that is, likes sports and is easily involved. It's also one of the very elegant ways that through, conditionally speaking, non-political institutions to act and politically and that the bond was also in some way an obstacle to resolving all these accumulated relationships, so I'm just saying about 700 million kunas are moving. And if we're going to be alone in front of ourselves, it's probably that sum we're doing is bigger. It's just interesting how our relationship as ordinary citizens is actually the opposite, the company can fail, it's not some big problem. But don't let God ruin the football club because the people, conditionally speaking, love it and I don't know what's possible, I don't know, with Fiorentin or Milan in Italy, I'm afraid it would be a revolution in Croatia to make it happen with Dinam or Hajduk, and probably at some other lower level. There was a problem and the leagues were expanding if it was to turn out to be Sibenik or Zadar or some club that is some symbol of a particular region or a sub-region or certain political interests. I'm saying, it's no problem when a company goes down, but I'm saying, God forbid a football club should be sanctioned for its intransparent, illegal, or I don't know what kind of business it is. And on the other hand, what's very important and what would be really good is that we, within this legislation, have several elements, which is that we need to separate amateur sport from one side, that we need to separate this sport that belongs to schools, means high school sport which is actually the right way... what we probably wanted as politicians, and that our nation really is healthy and that sport is what it is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One of these better Croatian brands. But as long as we're all on the same pile, I'm afraid we won't see the trees from the woods and this law won't bring what it's supposed to be brought for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58273	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Club, Madam Representative Biserka Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58274	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the SDP Club, I would like once again to subscribe to the main parts of this Law that we believe should be completed in order for the law to really achieve its goal and to correct the current ones, as Mr. Minister said, a catastrophic situation in sport and systematically resolves the functioning of sport as a whole, and not just some sports. In order not to be a mother to some sports and other stepmothers and to enable the implementation of constitutional provisions on equality and equality for all these sports as a state interest. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to stimulate investment by economic operators in sport through tax incentives and at least to double the current allocations for sport from the source funds of the state budget, thus achieving the separation of Denmark, Slovenia and Hungary and creating realistic assumptions for increasing the number of all categories of citizens who are constantly or occasionally engaged in sports activities compared to the current modest 10% population. The law on sport must not be limited to regulating the financing and functioning of professional sport as well as its relations, but must offer more precise solutions from all other chapters, which are mainly taxed by one or two articles for the time being, and most of the declarative nature. Therefore, there must not be a problem with the debts of professional sports, professional clubs to identify them with sport at all, write them off, turn them into somebody's own shares, and nobody gets a hair off their heads. This refers in particular to untouchable managers who cheer and dress with Croatian professional sport, taking care only of their own personal interest and getting rich in the expense of taxpayers. It is especially important to protect top athletes, amateurs and resolve their status in all, not just Olympic and professional sports. Their existential issues such as sports scholarships, pension, disability and health insurance, scholarships, sports achievement awards and the like. And that's one reason why you need to increase the budget part of the sport cake. The national alliances must autonomously prescribe who can and who cannot be a member of the assembly, administration and supervisory committees because they know best who can and how they influence the competition system and the results achieved. At the same time, professional associations of trainers, judges, doctors, etc. must be able to participate in the work and decision-making of the working bodies of clubs, i.e. alliances through their representatives. Therefore, the Sport Act in its provisions must not be a means of resolving conflict and abuse in a sport because there are other acts as well as competent institutions. In the case of a professional sports club, Articles 16, 18 and 22 should be brought into line and Article 21 should be harmonised in accordance with Article 17. As far as sports professional activities are concerned, it is not enough just to specify the mandatory level of professional training, not to provide for mechanisms and trainings that could be implemented without discharging clubs, from educational institutions that do not have a professor's staff for all sports branches, to clubs that do not have financial opportunities for training trainers. In the section of the State Prize in sport, it is necessary to equalise the rights of athletes and Olympics and neo-Olympics to the recognition and rewards and to determine the percentage of separation from the state budget for this purpose, in order to avoid the government's campaign decision-making on the amounts of rewards for some sports achievements and achievements, from case to case, and the dissatisfaction of other athletes who do not get a quick report of congratulations for the achievement of the same rank, let alone a cash prize. As regards the financing of sport in the law, it is necessary to install minimum percentages of the amount of separation from both state and local budgets in order to maintain a level of quality in sport. So long as elite, professional sports are funded along with other sports, these others will not stand a chance, especially if they are not Olympic sports. Why? Well very simple, because with elite sports there are always politicians present, which we heard in this debate and that of the highest rank, where power is there and money, it is known to everyone. Speaking of health care, I want to highlight three details. The period of validity of the general health skills of athletes should establish each national alliance separately, in accordance with its own, or international regulations according to specificities, physical burdens and risks of injuries to the sport. The Ministry of Health should not establish a list of authorised doctors but rather the conditions they must meet, and they should be chosen by means of a public tender or by local self-government to allow the establishment of their own sports clinics so that the reviews for clubs become free, and the separation for that purpose in local budgets is reduced to half. The text of the law should be restored to the provisions on animal health that participate in sports competitions as well as on their doping controls that existed in one of the previous versions of this Act. Finally, the transitional and final provisions show that the Government must make two regulations, Parliament of two decisions and ministers of different resolutions of 15 sublegislative acts in order to fully revive this Law. I believe that many of these acts should be resolved by law itself or put into the jurisdiction of the Croatian Olympic Committee, sports alliances or units of local and regional self-government, thus adapting sport to the current state and possibilities of society and bringing it down to lower levels of decision-making that know better the situation on the ground. The SDP Club will support this bill's proposal in first reading with the desire to make the best and final proposal based on our remarks and suggestions soon and to finally start solving the riots primarily in professional sport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58275	Thank you very much. On behalf of PGS, SBH and MDS, Mr. Representative Nikola Ivanis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58276	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Let us, on behalf of the PGS, SBHs and MDS, comment on the proposal of the Sport Act in the first reading, and say that we also support the basic intensities shown in the law as well as all that has been shown in the debate both last week and this week, and everything is based on the desire for Croatian sport to go forward, further and better support, therefore we support the intentions to ensure the conditions for long-term planning of sport development and to make it very clear that we think that, nevertheless, the proposal for the Sport Act should be more indicated by the fact that 0.3 of the social percentage, which in this country is too small for sport and that, in some way, we would like to demonstrate our position to think that it is still related to the proposal of the Sport Act, should be more indicated by the fact that 0.3 of the gross social percentage, gross social product, which is too small for sport, and that in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, we are still more of the long-to the long term of Croatia, that we are not in fact, that we are in terms of the long-consist of the long- and in terms of society. I don't know, Slovenia and Hungary, which in the neighborhood stand out one twice as many 0.6, the other stands out 1%, and that says that clearly then their ability to achieve such good and high-quality goals is certainly much, much greater. We support the law proposed to adopt the National Sport Programme as well as the establishment of a National Sports Council, which would form a Parliament, which would be adopted in Parliament, and we particularly support two intensities, which is that in the future more than in the past years, the emphasis on strengthening sports, school sports and the establishment of a Croatian School Sports Union, we also think that the disastrous situation with student sport in our society has come to the point that sport, student sport must be affirmed, but still in the light of what it is necessary to strengthen school and student sport, we certainly point out exactly that again, the questionnaires on these goals are the fact that we are too little for sport. I don't know 100 million kuna from which the Croatian Olympic Committee is available annually is definitely insufficient, I don't know 90 million kuna from the state and 10 million kuna from the sponsors, and just when I mention these 10 million kunas that the Croatian Olympic Committee is about to achieve from the sponsors, we would like to point out that we can accept the fact that the finance minister will determine the way in which investments in sport are released and enter into costs, but we think that in the parent law we should also stress it, and the latter would end up with a great skeptic we express the issue of conversion and the question of club transformation. We think that a bad solution is any solution that can lead to the local self-government unit becoming the club owner. We don't support it, we think that with this we're going to open a pit without a bottom that's going to swallow tax money just now at the municipal and city level, and partly legalized and we don't think it's very good, so another reading on these solutions needs to be reconsidered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58277	Thank you. A club of independent representatives, respected representative Branimir Glavas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58278	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, in these five minutes, let me put a few more thoughts on this bill. From my discussion in the first 10 minutes I wanted to let you know and send a message that and the existing legislation, which applied to sports, allowed the normal functioning of sports clubs were they highly professional, were they amateur. There were simply legal frameworks so that this segment of life in the Republic of Croatia could take place normally and uninterruptedly. The second thing is that in the first 10 years of the functioning of the state government, which was burdened with the fact of the good part of those years by war, by Serbian aggression, by the post-war situation, by the care of a large number of exilers, by half a million exiles, by refugees in those first 5 years of the Croatian state, and that we were faced with certain situations when the authorities consciously closed their eyes to events and certain things tolerated. Let's just remember the situation in the first 10 years of the financial mess that reigned during the first 10 years of the Croatian state. He says partly justified by war and income, and he partly bears the responsibility of the ruling set in the first 10 years where I was, and I'm not running away from it, a tiny wheel in that system of government, but the tax authorities didn't function, the financial police didn't function, the various financial inspections didn't work, and things were tolerated, and the millions of amounts deposited debts and riots in financial business and that segment of public life. I therefore confirm this by making my own argument when I took my own example in leading a club and in that time of war in 1994 and 1995 when we paid our commitments to the state. When we haven't created a single kuna in that year and a half when I'm at the head of a football drive, the big spender of money. So also in these last 8 months, 10 months when, as president of the football club Osijek, I can take responsibility before this Croatian Parliament, in front of you and the Croatian public, we pay our taxes to the Croatian state in these difficult circumstances, we pay our obligations to different suppliers and we have not created a single kuna of debt. So these frameworks that existed, the legal frameworks were a solid assumption that life can run normally, that life can flow and function in accordance with the laws that there were more responsibilities and those who were involved in this work, led these clubs of different sports disciplines, but also those who exercised power. So if the inspection services don't work, if the segments of the financial police don't work, the criminal police will just now resuscitate the situation, draw the line, focus on some kind of artificial zero. So to create an illusion that we've solved the situation in sports. If you don't change the habits of those who run these clubs from management and management to those who need to monitor and control what happens in these clubs, we'll have the best way to say the same thing in 3 or 5 years where we are and now if it's not worse. I therefore support this initiative, but I believe that this bill must be subject to even more thorough grinding, grinding and grinding in order to really come out as a final text as best as possible to the Croatian Assembly but also to solve these problems in sport so that in 5 years or 7 years, they will not find themselves in the same situation and discuss the same problem again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58279	Thank you. For the HDZ Club, respected representative Franjo Arabovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58280	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I think in these two days we've really said a lot of things about sports and we've finally opened our eyes and I think to the Croatian public and to ourselves. We said sports clubs in the Republic of Croatia, the alliance and anything owed to the state of Croatia so much and so much money. Is that 700 million or less or more... when we were doing an analysis two years ago when we started doing this proposal for a draft law on sports was somewhere around 520 million kunas we went to county. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I personally went to every county and asked them to give me some financial situation. So that's what Mr. Primorac said on Friday was about 700 million kuna. So in a year, it'll probably be over a billion kuna. So now we've come to a situation that we finally have to start from scratch. Because it's always been said here today: "And these are thieves. And they stole the money," which they can't handle the Sports Act if someone manipulated the money. If someone put it in their pocket to be so direct. It can't be solved by one law on sports, that, Mr. Lucin knows how to handle it. So as far as the Croatian Democratic Community Club is concerned, I think this is a good draft of the proposal for the first reading that we will surely support that we will well analyze at our club, all of the statements made in these two days. To present this to the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports in which we have a great deal of confidence I would say to all MPs that until the second reading this law, as my previous speaker said, will be crushed very well and will satisfy not only our representatives in the Croatian Parliament but also those who expect us to offer them something to improve Croatian sport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58281	Thank you. Final review by State Secretary Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58282	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I would also like to thank you all for this fruitful, broadly complex debate because we have heard a number of very important questions. I'd maybe eventually just sublime some points that we've been especially looking at. It seems to me that there have been a lot of misunderstandings because the law clearly states that debts will not be forgiven either by amateur or professional clubs. In that sense, provisions have also been made. I'd like to say here it seemed to me that he didn't get this Spanish model well enough that we used. He is not used here as a model in terms of a contract between athletes and clubs but he is here, the Spanish model is viewed in what kind of contracts should or should not be between athletes and clubs or a model of viewing in the principles of reshaping, reshaping associations into companies. Or according to our positive regulations. And that model is very complex and it's elaborate throughout the law. I would also like to say that there has been an observation that sports stock companies are not investing enough in the spring. The law says that the proposer or a certain part of the acquisition of sports stock companies must be invested in preparing children in sport. It was also an observation that this law does not move things forward. I want to say, not repeat everything that only if we take children in sport as it looks at this law then we have major shifts in relation to the situation so far and with regard to Croatia's sports, school sports alliance is established for the first time in the Republic of Croatia. Then the advantage is prescribed for children in the use of school sports halls, school sports clubs have the advantage of using space, schools compared to external users. It also sets out the law will require high professional preparation for professionals working with children in school sports clubs. Also special health care for children who are involved in sports at school is also prescribed by law and something else, monitoring and directing children in the system of sports. Not to mention a number of other areas that are newspapers. In any case, I think that this law underlines the line below so far a rather complex and bad situation in Croatian sport where certain debts and situations in some clubs have led to this situation that it is even possible that our most popular clubs may fail due to possible bankruptcy. This cannot be allowed nor would it be a Croatian national interest. I think all together we've made certain remarks that we're going to consider and we're going to offer a second reading when they're going to be able to intervene with the amendments. But I think that ultimately this law will bring a big newspaper, a great subport to the development of sports in the Republic of Croatia. Here's my thanks again for your fruitful debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-03-0.u58283	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a law on sports, first reading. I'm voting on the next conclusion. Under 1. The proposal for a law on sports is hereby adopted. 2. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 93 votes for and 4 against...... The proposed conclusion was reached. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
