ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60096	Mr. President, the Honorable Madam Representatives, Madam Representatives! Allow a few words on the final proposal of the Law on textbooks for elementary and high school. I believe that you remember that the debate was very dynamic and alive with a lot of proposals and we have really respected a large number of your proposals that clubs of so-called individual representatives and MPs as well as committees. I would like to say that this is how we believe that this law has been improved, which has caused a great deal of interest in the approval of textbooks all these years. In particular, to see what this width is we have accepted, for example, in Article 2 of the Law, is complemented and expanded paragraph 1 which defines what the textbook is on the proposal of several representatives of clubs but also of the HDZ and SDP Club. For example, paragraph 7 of that article was extended to the proposal of Parliament representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic and was incorporated into it that textbooks for the needs of the additional extension for children of Croatian citizens abroad are also considered a textbook with a small fee. For example, in Article 4 of Parliament's proposal by Marija Lugarić, paragraph 2 has been completed, allowing the publication of textbooks except in printed and other forms. Let us say what is particularly important about the conflict of interest that resolves this law is Article 5 is completely changing. In accordance with paragraph 1, the comments of the Committee on Human Rights and the Club of the HNS have been taken into account and it is pointed out that the employees of the Ministry of Education, Professional Education and Education departments cannot be authors of textbooks for conflict of interest. And here I would just like to remind the introduction that Article 14 which speaks of the choice of who has the right to choose the textbook is all agreed by the Croatian Democratic Community Club, then the SDP, the HSS, HSLS, the PGS continue to be a teacher. And it's extremely important that we have one of these kind of consensus on these issues and that's good for this law. But Madam MPs and MPs, I would like to point out briefly what issues are now resolved differently from the draft bill and how it will be resolved. Thus, the issue of branched textbooks will be resolved by a textbook standard as a sublegal act. Secondly, a licence is introduced for publishers issuing the ministry, criteria and conditions for obtaining a licence will be prescribed by a teaching standard. There are also extended definitions of specific concepts, a textbook for schools that conduct all teaching classes in foreign language, a textbook for the needs of additional teaching for children of Croatian citizens abroad, and a textbook for children with special needs. The issue of conflict of interest is also regulated. The authors of the textbooks cannot be employees of the ministry, of the school office and of the vocational education agency which could directly influence the choice of textbooks, teachers or teachers. There is also the possibility of finishing textbooks to correct the observed shortcomings, which so far has not been possible and the choice of textbooks in classes for individual teaching subjects is left to teachers, which is also European practice. And what's most important. In addition to three textbooks for a particular teaching subject, which teachers or teachers have chosen in the highest percentages but no less than 10%, the Ministry can include up to three textbooks that were first approved for use in order to strengthen competition between authors and publishers. It is extremely important to maintain competitiveness because it ensures quality. And in conclusion, we can say that this law certainly ensures a higher quality of textbooks, putting more order into the system, and ultimately there will be fewer textbooks in use by subject matter and overall in Croatian education, primary and secondary education. These are the reasons that we put before you this final proposal and ultimately pass this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60097	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Chairman of the Committee, Honored Representative Petar Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60098	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed the 20th session held on 22 March 2006. Final proposal of the Law on textbooks for primary and secondary school P.Z. No. 363 which has been sent by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 10 March 2006. The committee discussed the issue as a parent working body. The opening argument was tabled by the applicant's representative. The debate found that in the context of the debate on the draft law in the first reading, a large number of remarks, the proposal as an expression of high level of consent in the professional public and among the present representatives were highlighted. In this way, the proposer was able to introduce into the bill a greater number of important improvements in such a sensitive and dynamic area as preparation, approval and preparation of textbooks. Participants in the debate agree that solutions embedded in the final draft of the law open a space for the necessary competitiveness in the design of textbooks, despite the fact that, for reasons of avoiding conflicts of interest, they exclude from the order of potential authors a number of professionals from whom a valuable contribution to the design of textbooks could be expected. In any case, it is justified that interested individuals decide on their own status in this matter. This is a member of the 8th draft law. Incentivising competitiveness and competition of capacity in this area, the final draft of the law at the same time provides for procedures designed not to use an unwarranted number of textbooks for the same subject at the same time. It is also justified, and this is also in practice developed educational systems in the world confirmed the proposed solution by which teachers, it is very important, teachers themselves choose a textbook that will be used between a number of possible textbooks. This is mainly 3+3 without the special consent of school or other committees and institutions. The Committee therefore unanimously draws its conclusion. It is proposed to the Croatian Assembly to adopt the Law on textbooks for primary and secondary schools in the form proposed by the proposings, together with the following amendments. The amendments proposed do not touch the essence of the law but refer exclusively to more precise and better formulations. Therefore, Amendment 1 to Article 6, paragraph 1 of the provision is amended to read as follows: "The procedure for the authorisation of the textbooks is initiated by applying for the authorisation of the textbooks of the licensor who has the licence." You have an explanation in your text. Amendment 2. Article 7 proposes... Paragraph 2 in the first sentence reads, "The expert commission draws up written opinions on the textbook, and the textbook can return the editor to the task of correcting the perceived shortcomings." In view of the importance of the teaching standard referred to in Article 3(2), which significantly exceeds its nominal feature of the sublaw, and in particular the circumstance that certain questions from the level of the law are transferred to that sublegal act, the Committee proposes to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the following conclusion: The Minister responsible for Education Affairs in the adoption of the training standard referred to in Article 2, paragraph 5. The law on textbooks for primary and secondary schools will send a proposal for an opinion to the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60099	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You don't have a report? Please. You didn't deliver it. When did you have a committee session? The committee, as far as the secretariat says, has not delivered its report. ... [[Intruder: Yesterday.]] So you may have proof but you didn't deliver it, you didn't deliver it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] When it's distributed, you'll take it out. The IDS Club is a respected representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60100	Dear Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministry, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here we have recently had the opportunity to discuss many things about education itself. We just had Law 405 where we agreed to be in charge of developing a system of education and education. Now we have before us the Law on elementary and high school textbooks. So everything that's going on around legal regulation in education is all we can say in a way is partial and insufficient. We all expected a comprehensive reform, especially in the decentralisation segment. As far as decentralisation is concerned, we expected regional self-government units to get more power, not just money and service to the Ministry. We also know that many things in school are problematic. Schools are left without enough pedagogues, psychologists, logos, and not to mention that at this point, a large number of schools are blocked. All the problems in our schooling, the school system, are caused by a rather reckless attitude towards schools. Many problems have accumulated. We've got low-paid professors, too few staff professors, inadequate school maintenance, non-renewal schools. The construction of sports halls, the way and the selection of boards, the selection of directors, and finally here I come to the publication of textbooks that we are talking about today, so I will look back at certain articles that would be good to do because they create a lot of misunderstandings. As we can see, there were a lot of objections in the first reading. The truth is many and accepted and incorporated into a second reading, but there are still many objections to this Law, and there are still many objections to this Law that should be incorporated into the law. First of all, the law is intended for the relationship of the publisher, the ministry, the school. But that means a little bit for the quality of the textbooks that will depend on the teaching standards and regulations of the Commission's work. The choice of textbooks since the textbook should be 4 years in use at school should...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60101	I ask some MPs to step up their conversations so that the pay phone is completely excluded from hearing what it wants to say. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60102	The textbooks should be in use for 4 years at school and should, of course, be used as early as possible in the school, with the appropriate support of publishers who have to present the same textbooks to teachers so that the choice is not made based solely on basic data in the textbook. The law will be possible, objectively it will not be able to start for two years. So according to these deadlines, the law can only function fully for the 2007 and 2008 school year. There should be a new learning standard before this law that may be far more interesting than this law itself. Because he still determines the contents, the form of books that can affect the price of books, weight, appearance, and so on. But let me take a closer look at the articles that should be done. Article 1 is not yet clear whether the supplementary teaching agent is mandatory or not. In our opinion, the IDS club should not be required. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of Are they part of the textbook, the new textbook, and in what percentages would this refer to only those content for gifted students? Article 7 of the Section Committee’s opinion, which is available in the form in which it is issued, shall be written. Is it possible to use it as a recommendation? So the way the Expert Committee works, I'm the secretary of the regulation that hasn't been issued yet, so there's little knowledge about the work of the Committee. In Article 8 it is good to check the association of members with possible interest in publishing. And that means we won't bring people into conflict of interest. Article 10 of the Minister makes a decision by 30.6. which we believe is quite late. That's more like paying the fines on deadlines. Then again, Article 13 states that approval may be off - limits. As far as Article 14 is concerned, which is a pretty important school through the teaching council, chooses a textbook for 4 years based on let's say non-essential data. How can a teacher get acquainted with textbooks where copies of textbooks from a listed list should be delivered by me to each school mandatory prior to the election, which means no later than 15.5. In Article 15, if there is no selected textbook, a new choice must be made within 10 days, which can be very problematic. In Article 17, there is no description of the procedures for the withdrawal of textbooks. Can this be done by school, how and in what way? The IDS Club will make amendments to what I read. I hope the ministry accepts it so we can have better law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60103	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Ivana Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60104	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, an esteemed colleague at the very beginning of her debate stated something, which would lead us to differing thinking: "All school problems due to a reckless attitude towards...".
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60105	Which is the correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60106	I quote her sentence. "All school problems are due to a reckless attitude towards schools."and then lists why, which is incorrect. This government has given education priority since the start of its mandate. Schools are blocked because of former government debts, which account for 260 million regresses, 168 million for shift work, 40 million for increased salaries on special state care.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60107	State Secretary Želimir Janjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60108	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, I have something to say about what the respected representative of Dorotea Pesic Bukovac said. Namely, I must warn that what you respected Madam MPs have now brought to mind is the text from the first reading, and this is the second reading. Hence, Article 14 is not at all the way he was in his first reading. She's not four anymore. It's not 30.6. It's May 31st, etc. You referred to the bill in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60109	HSLS's club, respected deputy president Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60110	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I am sure that during today's debate we will talk again beyond the final proposal on the basic and secondary school textbook, because whenever such topics are opened, then it is usually about the educational standards that are necessary for the quality of teaching, which is important to something other than the standards of educators not to confuse it, about their default, about the overload of students. However, a debate on the situation in primary and secondary education may really need to be prepared. Of course, you should see what the Bologna Process has actually brought for our students, how many of them are there to enroll in the following year and how we have prepared ourselves for this process. I think it would be really good if the government prepared such a debate. I, on behalf of the HSLS Club, suggest it, then of course, we could talk about these important segments as it is today before us. I am really asking you to consider this proposal from the HSLS Club on a whole thematic debate that the parent board could certainly prepare. In fact, we had the first reading of this law in November 2005 and there were indeed a lot of objections. I must express my satisfaction that almost all the comments and suggestions I made on behalf of the HSLS Club have been made and accepted. So I will remind you of this Article 7 of the extended paragraph 2 which contains the provision that the Expert Committee shall, before the evaluation of the textbooks, request the rapporteur to provide, within a maximum period of 15 days in the correcting of the established failures and the completion of the textbook, that the evaluation of the Expert Committee with reasons and clear reasons for its adoption be made mandatory to the publisher. And since it's about minor finishings, we thought that this 15-day deadline really was enough so that it couldn't be some excuse for the textbook to be completely rejected, so as to prevent the commission from authorizing the textbook for banal reasons. And it is good that this article adds an article 9 which prescribes the public work of the Professional Commission. Article 9 is amended as follows: This article now provides for a 90-day period of delivery of applications for the authorisation of a textbook for the notification of the opinion of the Professional Commission and the prescribed period of 4 months which we truly considered to be too long. A 90-day period has been accepted. Part 14 of article 14 that prescribed choosing a textbook that would be in use at a school of 4 years was completely deleted, so that we really do not repeat ourselves is one of the important differences. Although I remember there was an interpretation that we said it might be a good solution, speaking of inheriting textbooks. But it's been over for a long time, and it can't be applied. It's too long a period. I don't think it's possible not to change textbooks for four years. Such textbooks would certainly be of worse quality. Imagine what a 4 or 8-year-old textbook would look like in an area of, I don't know, natural sciences or technology. In the same article 14, it is good for a teacher to be given the freedom to choose a textbook for himself to teach. The previous proposal said that it was the teaching council that decided on the textbooks according to which a teacher would teach. That's really not good, because we have to trust people who give up a certain object. It is enough that the number of textbooks for one teaching course chosen in schools is in the highest percentages, so not less than 10% is narrowed to only 3 textbooks for an individual subject. I'll remind you it was 7 to 10 textbooks before. With the free choice of textbooks, the teacher really opens the door for creativity, the following textbook is not the only source of knowledge, it is the creativity of teachers to use other sources and if not teachers, teachers, teachers, it would certainly be the students themselves, and this creative approach, both students and teachers, is actually one of the guarantees for better education. So besides those remarks you've accepted, I think it's really good and that we're going to make better textbooks possible. There are, however, some other remarks that I would ask you on behalf of the club to consider and see what can be done. In Article 4 where it is said that additional content is added to the textbook for the needs of gifted students. This term is certainly not the most adequate term, it is very relative and it is difficult to determine exactly who belongs to that group, so for students who show special interest in a particular area for students, therefore the books should indicate the areas considered as additional content in the textbooks themselves, so that with the regular textbook issue and the manual with additional content for such students. Article 5 of which prohibits individual employees who may be in conflict of interest if the authors of the textbooks are, therefore, should not be so decoded because Croatia does not have too many quality professional staff who could write textbooks and should therefore be prescribed that textbooks can write, or be co-authors if this is not in a direct conflict of interest. But really talk about people who write textbooks and turn them over in a conflict of interest at these times when a conflict of interest can be spoken of in much larger numbers and with many zeros it's almost absurd that this applies to people who write textbooks, but good. However, Article 5 leaves out the staff of the National Centre for the Evaluation of Education, which, in the light of their work, have insight into the tests to be written at the State Graduation, so that they could issue various manuals for graduates, and this could already be inadmissible. So it seems to me that in Article 4 we have gone a little too far without doing so in Article 5. I believe that you will also consider these remarks, and that by the end of this teaching year one full debate can be prepared, and I ask you with a special reference to the Bologna process for first year students. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60111	Thank you. HDZ representative club, respected representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60112	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State, Assistant Minister. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club considered the Final Proposal for a Law on textbooks for primary and secondary schools and will support the adoption of this law as a good proposal and one of the important steps in education reform. Since this school year, as a pilot program in 49 elementary schools, we have already mentioned several times, the Croatian national educational standard aimed at the gradual and flexible raising and quality of teaching, knowledge and learning skills. HNOS is also the basis for new textbooks which also means a new approach to authors for writing new textbooks and publishers when editing and publishing textbooks. Changes in teaching programmes have also been started, and preparations are under way for the introduction of national graduations. The system of publishing and selling textbooks must contribute to the real stability of education. After a full debate on the proposed law in the first reading, the Proposer, i.e. The ministry has accepted many proposals from MPs and representatives' clubs and thus significantly improved the proposed law and much of our remarks on what we are grateful for. The proposed law lays down the conditions and procedure for the authorisation of textbooks, the way textbooks are chosen, the withdrawal of textbooks from use, the reduction of the number of parallel textbooks per case, the possible conflict of interest is regulated and additional teaching means are defined. After the first reading debate, it can be said that improved legal proposals will certainly reduce the number of textbooks per case, a number of order will be introduced among publishers and authors, i.e. competition will increase, and thus will remain in use of quality textbooks, the textbooks with outdated and incorrect facts that we have all witnessed and these opportunities will be withdrawn from use. Namely, such textbooks are in use now. The authors of the textbook will not be able to be employees of the ministry, the Institute of Education, the Professional Education Agency. The proposal also improved the definition and explanation of the difference between the textbooks as a basic teaching tool and supplementary teaching means such as the work book and not to list the others. It is also good to adopt the comments relating to textbooks for teaching in a foreign language that must be in line with the basic and secondary school and textbooks programme, because in some areas it has been very common, the textbook is copied or downloaded from other education systems, and this also applies to textbooks related to the language and letter of the national minorities. Article 3(2) also accepts the observation by one part of the MPs that the use of textbooks which are contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and which is inappropriate with regard to human and minority rights, fundamental freedoms and relations between sex and education for democratic society. One of the most common remarks in this debate was the conflict of interest. Many examples were presented in which textbook authors were employees of the ministry, the Institute of Education, who often pressured teachers and students when choosing textbooks. The proposed Article 5 precisely defines that the mentioned employees cannot be authors of textbooks, and Article 3 of the same article that the minister will withdraw the disputed textbooks from use, i.e. such authors within a year. A large number of colleagues in the first debate also mentioned those responsible persons in schools who pressured teachers, teachers in selecting textbooks because different counselors, I will now say one ugly word, bagging through schools, coming full suitcases and selling their textbooks. Now that problem has been solved, because exactly there are high penalties, quite high penalties for those who pressure teachers to choose textbooks. The proposed amendments are also accepted in Article 7 relating to the expert commission which conducts the choice of textbooks. It is good that the applicant accepted a proposal relating to the publishers, i.e. that textbooks can only be issued by a licensed publisher, i.e. that the issuing licence gives the ministry based on the prescribed textbook standard, because we have made sure that some publishers are not ready to publish and quality, I will say technical quality textbooks so after a year of using the textbook you have not textbook but a bunch of paper. A large number of MPs and clubs have suggested that textbooks for use be selected by a teacher, a teacher that the ministry has accepted. This is very good, it has proved to the public that, after the first reading, the public was more prone to this proposal and that is why it is good that the ministry accepted it. The teacher has the right to choose the textbook he works on because he and his primary means and everyone has the right to continue to enter their individuality. It is good that the 4-year limit for the first-reading textbook is deleted because it is impossible to limit the choice of a teacher if it appears better, for it a methodical and didactically more equipped textbook. In our first debate, we also pointed out the problems of withdrawing textbooks from use and those in which the facts were outdated, incorrect data. We have textbooks that are more than 15 and 20 years in schools. This is especially the problem, I pointed out in my first reading, in vocational schools where the most common textbooks do not follow technological development or scientific achievements. If we want to educate future professionals competitive in the labour market because the economy is as competitive as it has, competitive for the labour market, it must especially adapt the content of textbooks in vocational schools. Article 17 is amended as well as the conditions for the withdrawal of textbooks from use. It is a good thing, since we have before us this second reading of the Law, that we are almost at the end of one school year and we already have to think about the start of a new school year. That it is found in Article 21 that these textbooks which are now in use in this school year, which expires at the end of this school year, will continue to apply, and that those who have approved the textbooks have started to run under the old law to both implement and complete under the new Law. And in the end I hope that improved by proposals after the first debate the law will support all clubs of MPs is the adoption of this Law supports and most of the school's public. And that the Law will please publishers, authors, teachers, parents, and I mean the most students who are textbooks and intended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60113	Thank you. HSP club, respected representative Pejo Trčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60114	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. On behalf of the Croatian Party Club, I must say that the proposal for a law on textbooks for elementary and high school in first reading was much better and better quality than this final proposal of the Law. Because in the first reading of the proposer's intention it was by this Law to solve two very important things for us, which is to reduce the number of textbooks for individual subjects in primary and secondary school and reduce the plan and program, and thus reduce the burden of student bags. The second thing that was regulated in the first reading, which is a solution to determine the status of an individual textbook for a period of 4 years. To take into account the social circumstances of the disciples, or their parents. Without getting into the plan and the program. So in the second reading, i.e. in the final proposal of the Law, you gentlemen have withdrawn all these positive and good proposals, allowing the textbooks to continue to be published for each year, or every other year, and yet you allow individual teaching subjects to be issued 3 and plus 3 more textbooks. Therefore, according to the old Law on textbooks for a particular subject, 6 to 7 textbooks were foreseen. And instead of going according to the proposal as it was in the first reading of up to 3 textbooks per case, you are now proposing not 6 as old as 3+3 textbooks which you have done nothing different than this bill so far from the old law. In fact, we at the HSP Club hold that it is not a quality solution that each teacher, without the consent of the teaching council, determines himself author and textbook on his own. Namely, there's a problem, and I'm going to give an example, that three classes of one and the same class have 3 textbooks for 1 class, so these students go to the fifth grade together after the first 4 primary school classes and then go to other schools. So it creates a big problem not only for students and teachers but also for parents. This Law does not regulate how and how the prices of textbooks will be determined, which is certainly not good because this proposal should have been settled. The fact is that the Law on textbooks for elementary and high school was passed in 2001, and in 2003 its amendments and additions to the same Law were made which did not quite enter into the essence of the amendments to the Law, but only some legal articles were updated and explained. I have to say that in the last 10 years, the learning problem has advanced and that we have better textbooks today than ever, but that's not enough and we need to keep going. We thought that this final proposal of the Law on textbooks for the foundation and high school would correct all drawbacks. We should have reduced this Law to too much of a plan and programme to reduce the number of textbooks for individual classes and to extend the sustainability of textbooks to 4 years with the possibility of early withdrawal from the use of the same textbooks if needed. Unfortunately, none of this will be regulated and achieved by this Law. The eyes of our public as well as teachers and teachers and students and parents are opposed to this Law on textbooks because textbooks actually enter every house, every home. So there is also a blow to the standard of our citizens, or parents who have to buy these textbooks. It is decided by this Act to say the quality formation of a professional commission which provides for who determines the consistency of textbooks with the curriculum and the programme and the training standard, and I must make a quality decision and recognise the issue of preventing conflicts of interest of the members of the expert commission themselves, which has not been regulated by the current law. From this Law we in the club HSP as well as the entire Croatian public expected much, but unfortunately this did not happen, but simply the legislator succumbed to the pressures of various lobbys on the side, i.e. by publishers, publishers, and above all the authors of the textbooks themselves. We at the HSP Club will propose amendments to improve the text of the final bill to solve the basic problems of the basic and secondary school textbooks, and then we will decide whether or not to support this proposal of the Final Law on basic and secondary school textbooks. In the end, I would still invite all of us and point out that it would be the best and the best solution for this bill to go into the third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60115	Thank you. State Secretary, Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60116	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I have to get involved here for a number of reasons because the key element in this Act is Article 14 which is currently talking about how to choose textbooks. You see, to fully understand this point of view, the fact is that today, when a teacher is to carry out his duties according to plan and programme, he has clearly expressed key concepts of this topic and clearly expressed educational achievements. You know that in school is the teacher and the owner to choose the method and ways to achieve the educational achievement of the dimension that can be measured. That is exactly what would have been achieved, is European practice and also Croatian because gentlemen here have agreed to the HDZ, SDP, HSLS, HSS, PGS, SBHs and many others that it is just the master teacher who will choose which means of competition to come to this end, and therefore we believe that this is one institution that is both European and Croatian. And that's why, Mr. Representative, I hold that your intensity, we understand, but it's impossible to solve these things differently to get to the right educational goal. Here's what I wanted to point out because on the other hand, the textbook, if it's not in a competitive race, it's no longer investing in it, and it becomes weakened, and our textbooks, you'll have to agree, they're getting more and more good year after year. And secondly, we need to be aware of another fact, in order for the Croatian education system to come into an optimal development it must systematically improve. It's not a thing that you can one CD, a floppy or I don't know how to make and put and click, it's almost impossible. We have to grow together. Croatian teachers must grow together with what is offered towards a quality education. Here, that's what I was gonna say.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60117	The HSS Club, the Honorable Representative, Željko Ledinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60118	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, allow a few words on behalf of the HSS Club on the final proposal of the Law on textbooks for elementary and high school. First, I would refer to a few words about what has been so far because this law is now in the procedure, and then the law that has been in force so far, and next to it was the oral teaching standard in 2003, and that Law is already allowed to be implemented in full legal terms... a complex pedagogical and social issue related to textbooks for primary and secondary schools. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Before that law, the question of the choice of textbooks was regulated by the individual decisions of the Minister of Education which had a lot of negative consequences and with the adoption of this Law, this was impossible. This last Law on elementary and secondary textbooks was for the first time clearly defined by the textbook as one of the basic sources of knowledge. It established the conditions and procedure for the authorisation of textbooks, the rights and obligations of publishers and the use of textbooks. This Law allowed teachers, together with parents, to choose the best textbook, and the main criterion for the elimination of textbooks was the percentage of representation in school practice and the opinion of the profession. expert committees. Therefore,... from the top of administrative self-will and volunteering. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Publishers, their authors were given the opportunity to come to the market, or schools only if they adopted a quality textbook. Quality raising has also contributed to the teaching standard which clearly but without delay the author's initiative has set the elements of a quality textbook for elementary and high school. Today it can be said that the solutions at the time have brought positive results... The competition, the priority role of teachers and parents, the strengthening of publishing activity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In general, Croatian officials have a quality at the very top of their textbooks in European countries with a longer tradition of pluralism in education. Today, following the application of the law, a proposal for a new Law on textbooks for elementary and secondary schools is proposed. It should be noted that it is difficult to say that the bill is new, only enough to be called new. This proposal offers several new solutions, but retains most of the previous legal provisions, which I think is good that they are accepted. Also in the second reading, some things are improved, and I think that's good. Why is the new Law proposed? What is to be achieved and can this be achieved by the proposed provisions? First of all, he wants to reduce the number of textbooks and the number of textbooks per course. The students' bags are supposed to be easier, and the kids are more relieved. These predictions are based on... that the present textbook's life is only a year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course it's not like that, and it's probably the wrong setting. Quality textbooks have been in administration for four, five or eight years, and it is good that in the second reading and there has been a change that can be done longer, however, the existing law allowed the leaving of new textbooks and their entry into schools if they met the provisions of the textbook standard decided by the profession. Here are some concrete examples that I think should be changed in the proposed final bill. First of all, I think it is good to support the conclusions of our Committee on Education, Science and Culture, where some of the remarks we spoke of in the past were adopted in the first reading. Also, I would refer to some articles that I think could have been slightly different and agreed and presented differently. Thus, Article 4 is an unclear definition of what is thought to have additional contents for children who are particularly gifted. If you have additional contents, it's probably some new textbook. And if that's an addition to the existing textbooks, I don't think it would be bad if those new contents stayed in the existing, new textbooks that would be, not specifically, called new content. Article 5 and Article 8 speak of the same subject in two different ways, so I think it would be better if we connected them to one, and then we would probably be much clearer. In Article 7, this is also what the Committee has proposed to change, and in fact this article should be so designed that it does not happen that there is absolute control and that it is practically, this would make it the most important article of this law that the minister determines all the rules of the game, that the minister determines the expert... to determine the other two members. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think the responsibility there is common to all and also when we look at that second-degree appeal procedure solved by the same commission as the minister himself. I think there should be others involved, not the Minister or the Ministry to be the only filter in that. In addition, in Article 10(4), I believe that this item could be thrown out. There is no question of why there is no authorisation of textbooks and even less how the expert commission will choose the textbook, what the procedure will be, and such an exception should be much more specifically explained. Also, in Article 14(2), the most important thing is to choose a textbook and what will be the price of this textbook, which is no less significant today because not everyone in Zagreb lives today to get free textbooks, but in other areas there is no word about it. Here, in the end, I'd like to conclude. The new text of the draft Law on textbooks for primary and secondary schools can be seen as a desire to seek new solutions based on the foundations achieved in Croatia but also on successful countries. A set goal could be seen in public as a positive shift, a good marketing move. However, professional solutions are not entirely adequate. In addition, administration increases, reduces the responsibility and autonomy of teachers, parents, and students. The Dokida is pluralism of doctoric and methodical ideas, which is why we are not approaching internationally known and advanced solutions. After a full debate, the club of representatives of the HSS will decide whether to support this law or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60119	Thank you. SDP representative club respected representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60120	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the ministry! The SDP club did not support the solutions proposed by the ministry during the debate in the first reading of this law. We are now discussing this law on second reading and it seems important to us at the beginning to say that in this second reading, the ministry has completely abandoned the concept that has advocated and proposed in the first reading. In this final proposal, the law leaves Rigidan an ethical and authoritative model which was proposed in the first reading and is primarily reflected in the following. First, the ministry left one entirely wrong thesis that pluralism of textbooks is a problem which was not only warned by our club but also the entire professional public. Secondly, the ministry also gave up the argument that this law would facilitate school bags that did not really come from the text of the bill and which was a cheap political demagogy. Third, on the proposal of our club but also some other clubs of representatives and profession, the ministry gave up the proposal that the same textbook should be used in school for four years. Fourthly, on the proposal of our club, in the final proposal of the law, the redefined definition of textbooks which was complemented by the fact that the textbook, apart from the book, could be an electronic record, which allowed the multimedia of textbooks and in some way opened a space for the textbook's future. Fifthly, the ministry also gave up the proposal that the textbook that will be used to continue selecting the teaching council and accepted the proposal between us and our club to choose a teacher and teacher. The sixth, the ministry also gave up the proposal to approve three textbooks per teaching course and class, respecting the comments and SDP's Club of Representatives, so that in a slightly different way, it allowed approvals up to a maximum of six textbooks. So, by proposing this and this final bill, the ministry gave up the originally proposed authoritarian concept, which, by the way, was so warmly defended not so long ago here in the Croatian Parliament and accepted all the key proposals of the profession and our party. My colleagues and colleagues, if we now compare this bill that we have received in the second reading to the current Law on textbooks, we can conclude that they differ in just three things. First, a license is being introduced for the publisher. Secondly, a conflict of interest is defined by the authors of textbooks who are both employees of the Ministry, the Institute of Education, the Professional Education Agency, and I agree that the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education should also be added to what we support but in some way we warn that Croatia is a small country and we have small professions. One of the two consequences will happen to us. First, quality people who wrote textbooks and did professional work at the office are likely to give up their job as employees of the Bureau or of the public service because it is more profitable for them to write textbooks or those professional people will not write textbooks. Neither solution is good, but it may seem to us to be a little more appropriate than it has ever been in view of all those actions or pressures, primarily counselors, supervisors, teachers in the choice of textbooks. And thirdly, instead of the unlimited number of textbooks that have so far been for each class and subject the number of textbooks is limited to a maximum of six which was mostly and now was the case in one case it seems to me or two cases that there were over six textbooks with a further retention of the prohibit clause of 10%. And now if that's the case, and it is, we are asking the SDP Club what was the whole pomp that followed the adoption of the text of the law in the first reading and why we have completely complicated the process of approving textbooks in this school year to which I will refer a little later. And finally, why are we even passing a new law that, with fewer exceptions, is either prescribed or secure or otherwise formulated by the existing law, or an existing model that we now have. It may have been enough to go on changing and supplementing the law and to really correct some irregularities observed by law enforcement and thus deprive ourselves of pomp and uncertainty for this school year. In the SDP, we understand somewhat the minister's desire to create an atmosphere that would certainly create a false impression that something new and revolutionary for Croatian education is constantly working right now, but we cannot accept in any way the minister's behaviour as well as to support all those measures that do not bring a qualitative shift but cause instability and uncertainty in the system. It was already mentioned here by the adoption of the Law on textbooks in 2001 that the textbook market was for the first time regulated, but also liberalised as soon as the way for textbooks of new quality was opened. At the same time, certain problems caused by the wave of intricacies and the objectivity of some committees for the approval of textbooks at the Ministry, the Ministry of Education, which were the result of the approval of parallel textbooks which did not differ in methodical settings and approaches. It's something we call cloning textbooks, which has been created in certain teaching subjects quite a crowd of interlocutor textbooks. I want to say very clearly here on behalf of the SDP Club that, not the problem of pluralism of textbooks. That it is not a problem for the number of approved parallel textbooks but that the existing problem is a large number of similar textbooks. So those that are methodically, doactically different and whose quality is not at an envious level. It should also be said that this rather large and significant problem has not been solved by the old law, but it is not solved by this bill, although the question is at all whether it can be dealt with by law or whether the answer to this problem can only be sought in a more responsible, more transparent and professional work of committees in the Ministry which propose the approval of individual textbooks. I should therefore like to warn the representatives of the Ministry that this should be considered when the rules on the work of expert committees will be adopted on the basis of Article 7. Another problem I want to warn you about is the deadlines for the next school year. My colleagues and colleagues today are on March 23rd. Under the current Law and under this Law proposal 31 March, so in 7, 8 days, the Ministry should adopt a list of textbooks for the next school year. We are interested in whether this list, given that we are only now making the regulation at the time and will be made public since any internal arrangements between the Ministry and the publishers have been totally passed by any legal or any other legal regulations have been negotiated throughout this process and any different deadlines. In the background of these internal agreements, there was also the fact that a new law would be passed. That's the one we're just discussing that's going to sort something out in a different way to solve the question of textbooks from which, as we can see in the end, we've now given up. The new textbooks for the next school year will also be approved on the basis of the existing and not some new and different teaching standard. Therefore, since we are interested in the publication of the textbook catalogue in the whole story, and are we going to have, for the sake of tampering and wandering around this textbook regulation itself, all the concerns that parents have before school and school books? At the end of a respected colleague and colleagues, I would like to very unequivocally consolidate several facts about school textbooks that are very often misrepresented and created to say hysteria and misunderstandings. First, school teachers don't teach the content of the school textbook. Teachers at school teach content from the curriculum. The textbook is an important but not only teaching tool or helpless teaching material. They're all the wrong thesis that curricula brings down to the school textbook. Unfortunately, we've heard of this before in the presentations of some club representatives, and we must all be aware that we will not have new and different textbooks as long as we have an existing curricula and program. HNOS is not a new curricula and program. HNOS is not a new curricula, nor should it be, but it is just a misunderstood hybrid from the "curicula" theory that should be implemented professionally correctly in Croatia. Secondly, nowhere but absolutely nowhere in school laws as in any method is the obligation to use textbooks. A teacher at a Croatian school if he doesn't consider it necessary, he doesn't have to use the textbook at all. What is prescribed is that if he uses the textbook it must be a textbook approved by the minister. And a third. What is it that a book called a school textbook differs from any other book? The school textbook has a predetermined content which is defined in the curriculum and is not the bad authors who are guilty of what the content of the textbooks is but is simply from the teaching programme and their form, or purpose and design, predetermined by didactic and methodical settings or textbook standards. And I repeat: the key role in achieving the quality of the textbook has no law. In addition to authors, there are reviewers and committees at the Ministry who assess whether some book meets all the conditions that we have defined in the law so that it can be called a school textbook. Therefore, the expectations and theologians that state that the law solves certain specific problems are entirely wrong. The solution is not in the law but in at least 3 things. By bringing a national curricula based on a different paradigm of programming than what we now have and which is clearly and unequivocally established in science and tangible in the practices of most developed countries. Secondly, in a precise and different definition of textbook standard. And thirdly, what I have already pointed out several times is the more responsible and professional work of expert committees of the ministries that offer a proposal for the approval of a textbook. On behalf of the SDP Club, I would like to make it very clear that quality textbooks are achieved through quality programs and transparent reviews, not by any administrative or administrative restrictions. Monopoly didn't give birth to good solutions anywhere. If that's true in the telephony, if that's true in electricity, if that's true everywhere else, why would different rules apply to education? Because only competition and the constant pursuit of particularly younger unaffirmed authors that existing things change the water forward. Because of all the above as well as because the Ministry is constantly and spiritually working on further normisation of the already hypernormised process in which it is said to be prescribed from how many grades it is allowed to write in a particular or should be written in a particular section of the directory to how many parallel textbooks there may be and that at the same time the Ministry did not norm the only thing that really needed to be normised, which is the objectives, outcomes and competences resulting from the education system. We have no illusions that this law will bring about some significant structural changes in the system. Because it remains in accordance with this bill, the minister determines who will be in the Committee for the Approving of textbooks? The minister still formally approves the textbook. Still the minister brings up a textbook standard. The minister still decides to withdraw textbooks from use. Still the minister's license for the publisher. It's final. We are still, in fact, retaining the existing model in the training policy truth with some minor modifications in the details, so it is difficult not to say impossible to expect and significantly different results. And at the very end, if we put new and different contents into the existing framework of our schools that originates somewhere from the late Middle Ages, we cannot make the necessary changes and steps, and in this context, since it is very popular to speak only the necessary dispensation that must happen in school is that discharge in the heads of teachers, in the heads of teachers and discharge especially in the heads of educational authorities. Disperse from one sea and need rigidity because it is the only place that can open space for student creativity, innovation, and, consequently, further to the overall progress of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60121	Thank you. State Secretary Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60122	Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Representatives. I have to get involved here in the debate because there's an impression of what's well-designed and where a lot of clubs and committees and MPs have agreed until then, in a way, we're turning into negative. That's not good. We must go to the goal that something good is for the Croatian system. And here's the eye and about the publishing of textbooks. That is, in principle, what I mean is that we have really taken a good look at your last debate and respected it. Because you'll agree, this is a matter that's interesting, interesting, intriguing and I think, ladies and gentlemen, that we've put order into that system, which is the most important thing. And it's good for the Croatian school system. And I have to answer to an esteemed representative that HNOS is not a hybrid. As a new element that is introduced into the Croatian school system, as HNOS is the way to the modern national girls. And at the moment when the Croatian national educational standard is compared according to, say, Slovenian, it is already 80% of that time. But you need to know that girls don't come overnight. It's a question and experience. Secondly, she's a new paradigm in the Croatian school system, and what's good for the system says next, we're with students and she's focused... to give the system lasting knowledge, skills, abilities and values as complete, we build complete persons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's the shortest point it's made. And this is what I'm still saying, since I took my word for it, about the law. The proposed law defines the textbook as a basic teaching tool, determines the process of approving textbooks, prescribes that in the school according to the teaching course, no more than 3 textbooks for which schools have been defined as the highest percentage, but not less than 10%. Also defined are additional teaching tools, such as work notebooks, task collections, geographical and historical atlases, which are usually printed separately from textbooks as the basis of the teaching tool. It is also prescribed to withdraw from use where it is found that there are incorrect and outdated data in the textbook which significantly affect the credibility of the content which points to wrong conclusions, as they make it difficult to obtain knowledge, which has not been regulated by law so far. And believe me, we couldn't pull some bad textbooks because there were no legal measures. Furthermore, the tasks of all subjects in the process of approving and selecting textbooks are prescribed by the lecturer of expert committees, the Minister of Education Affairs, and teachers and teachers in schools who choose between approved textbooks who will benefit from the following school year. And very briefly at the end of this address. This law will give us fewer textbooks in schools and better quality. And that's what's more important and the system arranged, especially in terms of conflict of interest. Here, thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60123	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect alleged, respected representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60124	Dear Mr. Secretary of State. I did not say that HNOS is a hybrid, but that HNOS is a misunderstood hybrid from the theory of girls, which is an important different situation, because it is a perpetuation of the catalogue of knowledge that in the theory of girls comes somewhere at the end as eight or nine steps. And none of the girls' theories mean that teaching programs are derived from a catalogue of knowledge that you've turned into HNOS, but it's happening exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60125	Dear Representative Furio Radin, Club of National Minorities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, it is certain that textbooks represent an important instrument of teaching, i.e. knowledge, and that this area must be regulated. Nobody slows it down. It must also be regulated for some very practical reasons that are not mentioned. These are the only books in Croatia that I don't say are read, but surely the only books that are sold. So here are conflicts of interest but also the placement of textbooks so far by the criteria which are more and more than those resulting from healthy competition are many times more rules than exceptions. You know, if you follow the sales, if you follow the sales of books from literature, but also scientific books, you'll see that they never cross a thousand, 2,000 sold copies. In schools, if I'm not mistaken, they're sold 50, 60 thousand copies, and more. So it's in other words because dear fellow textbooks have become business. They are also earned in spite of the fact that knowledge unfortunately comes more fragmented than in a system today in children and young people, if you look well. More specifically, it comes more, it comes in more quantities than the Internet and than television and other telephone channels, excuse me, electronic channels of communication than books. Today, as we know, children learn, write tasks, relying far more on the Internet than on books. So on the one hand, we have textbooks and business around them, and on the other hand, the actual space of content adoption in which children are far more skilled than adults. And what is more important in finding such content is children far more skillful than their teachers who often find themselves hard to cope with in new technologies. Many times children come up with content that is important for what is taught at Internet school, of course, in one way that is, in a way that is far more skilled than their teachers and teachers, including teachers, and that are then safely in a situation where children are ahead of them. Despite all these limitations and despite all these factors in the textbooks, the textbooks ask themselves, regardless of what she said before Marija Lugaric to ask and teach on the basis of the program, the textbooks come safely in the second row. But they exist and they are used. And they will also be important for sure and at some point when it will be introduced, it has already been introduced, but when a national prom is being held as far as national minorities are concerned, there remains one great unknown. So they give themselves up, they ask themselves, and it's essential that this area finally settles and finally regulates itself, although as I said in the future, the written word is sometimes unfortunately written, and some times fortunately it will lose step with digital content. Unfortunately, she does good literature, and fortunately with often poor ideoligic textbooks. In the contents of the textbooks, of course, there is not much reason to talk here, but if there is a conversation that could be devoted not to one, not to a time dedicated to one law but to the whole, but to one day, because in that, it is never to the end about the contents of the textbooks for primary and secondary school, especially for the primary school this Assembly never spoke to the end, it has never talked about whether and how much respect laws, laws in the field of human rights, whether and how much respect laws with more minority rights are respected and whether and how much respect gender equality laws and other laws regarding human rights are respected. That would really deserve a thorough debate. We from the national minorities in this context actually have luck and misfortune. We're in an accident because, as we know, the textbooks aren't, they're mostly not translated. I've been in this House for years, many years, every time the president says too much, which is two more than me, so from year to year, it's been said that the textbooks of national minorities are not translated, and they're still very poorly translated. For elementary school where education was developed as in the case of my national minority, 30% to 40% of textbooks were translated, for high school, that percentage was close to zero. This law may help to finally translate textbooks, but we from the Italian national minority, I am talking about us because here is the most education so as to say regulated, but also in other minorities, although the worse situation, we have lost little hope that it will eventually come true. When I went to school many years ago, even more years ago than when I came to the Parliament, all of them, all the textbooks were translated, today as we can see they weren't. This new methodology now proposed to determine the textbooks of national minorities is of course based and it is commendably based on positive discrimination. So in the textbooks of national minorities, the textbooks of national minorities are not subject to the same rules as they apply to the textbooks of the majority. Why? Because you're just going to translate one book not three or six. What are you laughing at, Mr. Capricorn? Not three or six. So one textbook, in one textbook, will practically choose and what confuses us, and then I will give the amendment in my name, what confuses us is that, in this proposal, the final bill lacks what, a provision is missing, a paragraph contained in the proposal, in the current bill proposal, and that is a paragraph to determine that teachers, i.e. teachers in primary and secondary schools with language classes and a letter of national minorities decide which textbook will use in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Education in the Language and Letter of National Minorities and the provisions of this law. This one's gone. Now this is to say, delegated to this expert commission, which, for the needs of textbooks in the language and letter of national minorities, will have three members of the expert commission who are experienced in both the language and the letter of the national minority, so in this area are practitioners. Of course, we have no reason not to believe that this will be implemented in an objective way, but this freedom that was given to this paragraph that I just read before, you know well that this freedom has never led to abuse. It was always done in agreement with the ministry, and on the one hand it was an expression of freedom, freedom of schools of national minorities and teachers in schools of national minorities and teachers, and on the other hand it took place on the basis of a fair agreement with the ministry. So as far as national minorities are concerned, I think it's more than it's going to lead to different textbook decisions, it's going to change the form that's going to come to these decisions. The simple form will be equivalent to that of the majority people, on the other hand, it will not give anything special new. We're convinced that actually the result will eventually be the same. But whatever it is, we believe that this particular paragraph where teachers and teachers in primary and secondary schools with language classes and a letter of national minorities were given the freedom to use textbooks was actually that paragraph was actually an indicator, an indicative indicator of positive discrimination. And that's why we're going to try to amend it, I'm going to try to keep it with the amendment so that, because he certainly doesn't mind in this law. National minority representatives also believe that when it comes to specific teaching textbooks in the language and letter of national minorities, it is necessary to consider that their content is directly related to the content of textbooks for regular teaching, i.e. to a greater extent the textbooks for regular teaching include the subject of minority and minority identity culture and the need for special textbooks will be reduced. What I said before about textbooks not for national minorities but about textbooks in Croatian and Croatian schools, for most should, they should contain a topic that explains life and co-existence with national minorities in Croatia because it can only bring good. But here we come to the content and we hope that this content will be the subject of one debate, but on the other hand that this content will also be a clear criterion for committees to decide on textbooks. Representatives of national minorities, most of them will vote in favour of this Final Proposal for a Law on textbooks for elementary and high school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60127	Thank you. In 10 and 44 timed out for 10 minutes of discussion. Honorable representative Jozo Radoš, Club of HNS Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60128	Mr. President, gentlemen of the State Secretary, Mr. Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. With all due respect, I think it would be a good idea for the secretary of state to show up here sometimes. The minister appears at all the impossible and possible educational and uneducated events, but he is not regularly present in the Croatian Parliament. He's bypassing it at a wide port. If this law is as important as it was announced, then it would be good for the minister to be here so that the law, so important, would be even better. Speaking of this Law before that, since there is no debate in the Croatian Parliament on the development of the system of secondary and primary education, it would be good to say a few general notes about the system. In fact, the government adopted a plan for the development of primary and secondary education, but this plan, which is in fact the determination of one of the most important areas of social life, which is education has never been discussed in the Croatian Parliament and the full debate on the situation in primary and secondary education, we only perform during changes of some laws. But the whole debate has never been on such an important issue in the past two years, and the development plan for primary and secondary education has been adopted and this plan establishes very important things for this very important activity. Well, then, here's a chance to mention some things. Of course this can't be a complete debate about it, but it certainly needs to be noted bad conditions in our primary and secondary education. Blocked accounts of primary and secondary schools have been going on for a year. Total bad condition, material status in schools, work in 3 shifts. 6% of our schools, primary schools work in three shifts. In the City of Zagreb, the situation is even worse. Underpaid teachers. I repeat here that teachers who have higher education are the least-paid group of high education workers in this country. We give these people such important tasks as education, education, and education to our children, and those children need to rest our future. So can we expect to have good results in this regard? Just one illustration of it. In the City of Zagreb, the average teacher’s salary with high school is 20% to 25% lower than the average salary in the City of Zagreb. So how does this man who works in elementary school in the City of Zagreb, therefore, who has a salary of about 4 and a half thousand kuna, and the average salary of all employees in the City of Zagreb, of course most of them with secondary schools is more than 5 and a half thousand kuna, so how does that man feel? Can we expect him to make this work harder and harder because of the school opening, because of the rights that students have, how can we expect that man to do this job in such an appropriate way. And of course, in this plan of ours, the development of primary and secondary education which plans not to take place in any school in Croatia in more than 2 shifts until 2010. So that the 3rd shift should be completely kicked out by 2010. The plan, in our opinion, should still be much more ambitious. The question of whether it will be achieved because the budget for this year's primary and secondary education is, it has a smaller share in the budget than it had last year. It has grown nominally but has grown even more nominally the total budget, so the question is how and how we will also be able to achieve this plan that is not ambitious enough with this weak increase in funds. And several international loans that are intended for primary and secondary schools will not be enough because this is also done in an unambitious manner, however, by a very demanding task. Here, these are things that I think every time it comes to basic education in Croatia should be noted, noting that I am absolutely in favour of being here in the Croatian Parliament about where we are going, whether this plan adopted by the government is sufficiently ambitious, in which segments we are late, and I think we are late in many segments of education reform and basic and middle, we should open a full debate in the Croatian Parliament. As far as the law itself is concerned, one principled remark. This Law will have its final effects in the year of school 2007/2008. So, when this furniture of the ministry, regardless of whether there will be a change in the government or the minister himself, but surely there will be a change in the good part of the people in the ministry will be on their way out. Ambition was supposed to be that all the effects of this Law, both positive and negative, were seen at a time when this complete set was there, when something could possibly change, when it could be criticised. This Law will therefore enter into force, of course, by adopting, but its effects due to the deadlines it has set, which is that by 31 December of next year, only the textbooks are actually proposed. They will therefore have their full effects only in the school year 2007, so in the autumn of 2007, when we may actually have a new government, or a new team in the ministry, and perhaps we will be in the pre-election period, so who will then be affected by the potentially bad consequences that this Law will bring. As far as the law is concerned, I must, of course, point out that the law has been improved in many respects in relation to first reading and in this sense I give recognition to colleagues from the Ministry of Science and Education and Sports, but these fundamental remarks about timing and the fact that the minister is very difficult to see here in the Croatian Parliament, and we cannot almost avoid him at some other events in the country. I welcome the fact that here's an observation that it's not going in, does not end the branching of textbooks, but I have to say that it was the main motive, that it was what was with the most dust bombing force announced, precisely that the elimination of the branching of textbooks would lead to the reduction of the weight of school bags. I'm glad that the people of the ministry have accepted our arguments, that it's not so I'm convinced that abolishing the branching would increase the weight of school bags because throughout the year, one of the only fat books should be worn, not what's past or what's been done to leave home. Therefore, it is certainly a good thing, but then we do not have to confuse the Croatian public, announce something as important a change, and then, in the next step, actually leave it and forget it as if it was not even there. I also think it is good to throw out a four-year deadline as a mandatory time limit for using textbooks because the question of how that deadline was set in the first draft of the law, but of course the question is whether it should be limited at all. If we do not have clear reasons why we have set four years, why not three, why not five, why not seven, then it is better not to have any deadline, so let experience show whether it will be good from the point of view of various interests, reasons, the argument that this deadline is still set somewhere to be three, four, five, maybe more years, or not at all need to be set up if this experience of application, or the application of this Law is imposed. So, in this sense, this Law is certainly an improvement, and we welcome the fact that the conflict of interest that is more precisely defined here, even though it is not a problem that could be fully regulated by any individual law, nor by this, but the provisions that stand in that sense are of course welcome and quality. Here it is said that this law will increase competition. It's really a question of how can you do it if you reduce the number of textbooks? The question remains, of course, on behalf of the Croatian People's Party club, I am not opposed to limiting the number of textbooks, but it should always be borne in mind that it will create a monopoly relationship, I was last speaking of this law about a monopoly, a dupol or a tripol which is again all sorts of monopolys and the question is whether publishers, new publishers, can break through the rules that we have asked like this. I don't understand how this Law will increase competition if a small publisher, a new publisher who we assume has new ideas that differs from those of textbooks that are approved, how can he get through if, for example, he should deliver to one school, if we have about 5 hundred schools, and we have some more in Croatia, by three textbooks for three teachers, how can he endure it? Who's gonna take it? That little publisher who's just getting started, who's got fresh ideas, who's got a good concept, etc. He'll probably face that difficulty, with that obstacle, he'll probably give up. In order for each teacher to get his textbook, and the teacher has to decide which textbook on the basis of a live textbook, which he will have in his hand, and not just a memo from the ministry that this textbook is approved, that little editor should print a thousand or a thousand and a half textbooks, and there is no guarantee that this textbook will cross this 10% quota and, of course, bring him into a material, or business situation that he can endure. Therefore, in such circumstances, there remains a real issue in the proposal's explanation that the proposer believes that this proposal for a law increases competitiveness and that it avoids any petrification of the textbook's condition, which is of course never good. The question is how the committees will work, and those textbooks won't be of the highest quality right away, and it's always good to open up the possibility of an alternative, and in this way I'm afraid it'll be quite difficult. It would be good in the law to lay down some provisions in which the ministry stimulates in some way, according to some rules of the new publishers to report, that they are given a chance before they eventually face this difficulty that they are not able to provide the printing of such a large number of textbooks without having any guarantee that these textbooks will be approved. Here, therefore, on the note, I repeat what I said at the outset, it would be good for all these issues that have not been discussed here in recent years to be conducted in full debate, it is a crucial system of society to which so little attention is paid, noting that this Final Bill proposal is certainly an improvement, but an important deviation from the initial concept of the ministry that has been announced bombically. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party will, according to the debates and amendments to be made, make a final decision whether to support this Act or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60129	Thank you. State Secretary, Želimir Janjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60130	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Let me briefly respond to the respected representative Rados, who spoke on behalf of the HNS club. You're saying the law should have been passed before this team in the ministry could see the effects of the law passed. In several discussions that we had in the Croatian Parliament, we said if you go with one legal solution, with a good project that can reach a consensus in the Croatian Parliament itself that there is no reason for the next team to be in this ministry to continue. We have had such situations so far and that is what would really be good in practice. We believe that there are really good solutions here and even after the first reading we have accepted many of the proposed solutions from all clubs and installed them in this law. So we keep this caution that you've just said in a way that we're all sharing. You mentioned, among other things, that we should discuss some other topics and you devoted quite a bit of time to talking about the development plan, blocked accounts, etc., we talked about it on numerous occasions. And of course, it wouldn't be too bad to talk. Well, the HSLS Club also suggested that we might discuss some other topics, but now we're talking specifically about one law. We believe that these solutions that we have offered are good, that you will support these solutions, given that you yourself have proposed them. And finally, when you talk about the Minister of Science, Education and Sports, I must remind you that there is not a month of how he talked about the Sport Act here after this speaker in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60131	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60132	Mr. Secretary of State says there's no reason why the new team at the ministry should not continue what started before. Unfortunately, our experience shows that there are always reasons for this and that few teams continue what the previous team did, which is a question of our democratic structure. That's why it would be correct for every minister's team to do key things like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60133	But it's not a correction to an incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60134	So I'm saying there's a reason because it shows experience.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60135	It's an explanation, a polemic explanation, but not a correction of an incorrect assumption. U.S.S.S.S.S.A.'s club, the respected representative, Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60136	Mr. President, gentlemen of the State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! I may not agree with all the elements of what my colleague Radoš said before, but with one thing I certainly can, which is that the state of our schooling is such that it's a little bit of a concern. And I can't remember that recently we had a big conference very well organized and media even well-accompanied by our government and Prime Minister "Croatia towards the knowledge economy". Both then and at that moment, and especially now when we are discussing the Law on textbooks, I cannot help but ask myself and you how it is possible to reach any knowledge society and then, in that sense, a segment of that society, and this economy is based on information and knowledge if we have the kind of situation in school that we have and what has been going on for years and more than a decade. And maybe our ministry colleagues will say so maybe we should talk about it at some other time and not at the Bookbooks Act. Maybe the president will say that's how it should be. However, when the fire burns somewhere, when things are bad somewhere, then in every segment where such a thing occurs, it should be reminded of such a bad condition, not so that this law, which has a number of good elements, would dispute in its future application but to create assumptions that what is the purpose of the textbook is to be in the good hands of good teachers and to reach students in good teaching circumstances and to be available to them. This is why we mention the school and its condition, the conditions in which teachers work, the conditions in which they normally refer to the profession and, of course, the overall state of the students themselves and the school themselves. The school today is much more interesting to the public if there is an incident in it between teachers and teachers and teachers, teachers and students if there is an impeccable event in some form of violence than by what is the real situation in schools and what is the real situation in schooling. Of course, the same goes for students. They are more interesting to us whether they distribute more easily or other forms of drugs, whether or not they distribute the contents of the condition given to the besieged character than by what real conditions are and what real circumstances these children can learn from what modern knowledge enables them right now. In that sense, I would like to say that this law brings a series of improvements. First of all, it does bring improvements with regard to what we had so far as one type of forest, the production of textbooks and the production of teaching materials which were naturally guided by what the market has as a basic criterion, and that is as much as possible to earn and appear on the book market regardless of the quality circumstances, regardless of how and what will be done with these textbooks in this respect. And regardless of the concern shown here by our colleague Rados about future small new publishers, it is quite certain that a kind of restriction in this type of game was necessary and we ourselves were aware that such a situation could no longer be maintained. The book can't be simple material for a competition. This cannot be the basic criterion for the book to appear in front of students, in front of the ministry, in front of teachers. What really needs to be a key criterion in this respect is its quality. Quality of the book in visual terms, quality and book in organisational terms, display of knowledge. The quality of this book in terms of pedagogical and didactic character is something that must actually be in the right sense of that word of concern for this Ministry and the standards to be set in this respect must be greatest. No matter what kind of publisher it is. And in this respect, if this Law goes in that direction, and it is seen that he is going to bring the newspaper and bring better things than we have in this regard so far. The second is now a matter of commissions. So those who, on behalf of the Ministry, will, on behalf of the State, assess whether these textbooks are truly meeting the highest quality that we currently have in terms of presented content, in terms of how this content is presented, given the pedagogical and didactic criteria, methodical criteria, this is actually a key issue. And there's in the first, in the right sense of that word to the Ministry, but also the public interested. So school, teaching, parenting, and ultimately, if necessary and necessary, a student herself. And this House must help that public in that regard. We legislators must help that public to be a more determined factor in evaluating and assessing what is the real quality of these textbooks so that the committees formed can do their job properly. In order to be in their composition, the best people who can decide in this regard, and not only those who, in a given situation, the minister, with his necessarily limited possibilities of insight and choice, can choose. So the issue of the composition of the commission is of course particularly important because what my colleague Rados said and the question of competition and the question of monopoly will depend to a good extent on how the Commission will work. And that is why I think that both this Parliament and we, by means of our clubs and the general public, should pay particular attention in this regard to the first products of these textbooks and then, above all, to the decisions of the committees on what they will choose from what is offered and what can be offered. In that sense, allow me to say two, three words from the perspective Dr. Radin was already speaking on behalf of the National Minorities Club. First, first. If we want to have an integrated model of education in which minorities will be integrated into the school system, not separated from the rest of the nation, then it is not just about textbooks for which languages and letters are printed in national minorities. It is also a matter of how many national textbooks, textbooks we consider to be not minority but national for the implementation of the national programme, how open they are to minority issues? How much did they integrate minority issues into their content? Of course, it's the problem he's having and it's worth national treatment. In this regard, I think that with the practice that existed so far, that from the writers in Croatia of Serbian nationality, Croatian writers of Serbian nationality would only take the right hand as someone who is, metric. And a number of others are either pushed towards Belgrade or are being silenced simply should we not do it. Because as we haven't done with Tesla, we shouldn't do it with Matavulj, for example, which is one of the first creators of a modern novel although, of course, the greatest novelist probably in the space of the former Yugoslavia is certainly Miroslav Krleža in this respect, but, however, it still reduces only to that and at the same time open space to those whose literary or literary work is neither far nor by historical or literary relevance, it doesn't deserve that kind of treatment that the Ministry has to discuss with its professional bodies. This will make it easier for one to realize an integrated model, an integrated model of education. It is also clear when it comes to history that apart from the great figures in modern Croatian history, regardless of nationality. So, except when it comes to civil Serbian politics in Croatian history, it is absolutely certain that it cannot be reduced to Pribičević when there are several other significant names that have sat in not the same place as the president of our Parliament today, but certainly were the names of this House of Commons and in this respect they deserve adequate treatment in order not to have these contents studied as something that is not an integral part of our common history. It's not something that's 300 or 400 or 500 years away. It is something that is there and that still exists living witnesses who remember it. There are descendants of such families and these giants. And in that sense, I think it is important that for those minorities who are not inaugurate as Serbian, such as Bosniak, regardless of the differences that exist in this respect, space is opened within the national textbooks that they are integrated and not excluded from it, as has unfortunately happened in recent years. I know it shouldn't be defined by law that way. That it is a question of culture defining the contents of the textbook itself but it is not necessary in this place to mention it. When it comes to committees themselves, yesterday we discussed this on the Committee on Human Rights, as it is necessary that the evaluation committees and the selection of textbooks in the languages and letters of national minorities are not just representatives of national minorities, but that it is something that will be a common job for people who are in that place and make that kind of decision. It is therefore important for this openness of national programmes, in order to increase sensitivity in textbooks which unfortunately have not always been and until yesterday could be noticed that there is a kind of insensitivity for what the contents are introduced into national programmes, that the representatives of the national minorities, of course, who could warn that some basic constitutional values are not respected in some textbooks. And that in some textbooks there are either too serious audit requirements when it comes to our modern history or that there is a language that is not sensitized given the necessity of co-existence between what we call a national policy and these elements of minority identities that are its integral part. And in this respect, we, on behalf of the SDSS Club, would particularly plead to the composition of these committees, both for these reasons, from a minority perspective, we also weave for the reasons of coming to as good a choice as possible with regard to the quality of textbooks themselves. Otherwise, the SDSS Club welcomes the efforts made in making this law, welcomes the improvements that have been made in this respect, but we think that we should take special care of these aspects because, under some current circumstances, some current conditions that I have, which are double conditions, these are conditions of insufficient integration, might actually prevail. And they can prevail if they are removed, if opened on both sides, by national textbooks and of course by minority textbooks. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60137	Thank you. Now we're going to an individual debate. Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear representative Jelena Pavicic Vukicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60138	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here, let me really give one, one very, very brief reference to this Final Proposal of the Law on textbooks that lies before us today. Chronologically, Minister Primorac was indeed and justifiably concerned about the cost of textbooks, concerned about the weight of school bags and about the questionable quality of certain textbooks he diagnosed, in fact, those problems as dominant problems in Croatian education and in Croatian society which would wish to build on education and knowledge. We diagnosed the problem, but we warned not to prescribe adequate therapy to remove these deficiencies. And after that political diagnosis, the profession has made an excellent pressure on the proposer, according to the legislator, and this profession is organized into trade unions, professional associations, but also individuals by their own personal engagement. Thus, the promoter gave up the original position and gave a solution that is correct and professionally acceptable, but it is in fact all but a new solution. On behalf of the SDP club, I think we've made that clear enough. So, finally, this final proposal actually differs significantly from the first reading, but not from the existing law. Did our bags, or school bags, really get easier, really cost our textbooks, and that is what we announced in order to achieve this law? Well, not really, because those bags were easier and because those textbooks have been in these extended variations so far and cheaper than what was proposed in the first reading. Often, as an example, the Croatian textbook for the first grade of elementary school consisted of 6 volumes, of 3 beginners, 2 trainees and a dictionary. Indeed, it is easier to wear only the volume that is used in the follow-up day, and out of the 6 packages mentioned above, four of them are permanent characters, and only trainees I and II must be bought again for the new student. He mentioned himself here in the debate today and the pressure on the proposer. I therefore congratulate both parents and teachers, therefore, and all parent associations, teachers, teachers, teachers, trade unions and professional associations, because they have made this pressure and because the textbook will continue to be selected once a year, because it will continue to be chosen by the teacher, because the textbook will be withdrawn by procedure because of the limitations and inaccuracy of its data, because we still have a branched textbook, because we allow the entry into the competition of textbooks with methodical improvements, so new textbooks, and because it prescribes what is the conflict of interest in the authorship of textbooks themselves. In fact, a little more coloquial, parents and teachers deserve an "A", and this is the passing assessment of the proposer who, in some ways, spent time on a proposal he had to give up on, because this original proposal, or that law that was addressed to the first reading, would actually undermine the level of democracy of the existing law. And for this reason, I think it is important to realize that we have improved the existing law somewhat and that it is not right in some way to deceive the public that it is a whole new Law on textbooks, a law that will solve all the problems of contemporary Croatian schooling. Because, as we have heard today in the debate, the problem of contemporary Croatian education, the problem of education, the problem of Croatia as a knowledge country is not in the weight of students' bags, but it is generally in the need for education in the Republic of Croatia to be singled out and more budgets, but also that we end up using more funds from pre-accession funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60139	Thank you very much. Next up is a fellow representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60140	Honored and respected vice presidents of the Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues, learned people from the ministry. I think this final bill of law indicates a single risk of jurisdiction to which you have decided to achieve as much consent as possible in the application of this law. And you've made a really big effort, you've agreed to some compromises, and today you have to suffer criticism that what you're proposing is not very different from what was in the previous law. Or you have to bear with it the criticism of colleagues from the HSP club that the first bill was perhaps more or more socially sensitive. That's not what I'm going to talk about. I'm going to say something here about some concepts that are missing in the law, which would be good if they were in it and possibly actually going to the third reading of this law. The first of these terms are writers or authors of the law. They are mentioned only in one article where there is talk of preventing interest in me in a completely unnecessary way because people who work in the institutions of the state administration are prevented from being textbook writers and quite selectively. That's why I don't see the reason, because I think writing textbooks is generally, and especially writing textbooks for elementary and high school is an intellectually ungrateful job. It is unlike writers of other books and even writers of university textbooks, textbooks for primary and secondary schools are in some way treated in the scientific community as scientists of slightly less reach or less rank, although I think it is one of the most exciting, challenging and responsible jobs. I was at one of the last jokes in London, Chagall was very old, and I was fascinated by this exhibition of colorite, a genius who approached the mental part of a child in his old age. That is how textbooks should be written, and it should in some ways encourage people to write textbooks. Some simply have a gift and that gift should be promoted. In this respect, one article of the law should determine who may be the writers and authors of textbooks for primary and secondary schools. Without any criteria, you have here that someone with a high school can write a textbook. That a journalist can write a biology textbook, that a biology teacher can write a textbook about the Homeland War or a manual or a work book. Therefore, the minimum criteria, not in the textbook standard, but must be marked in the law. Who's the author, who can be the author, what are the minimum criteria. Does he have to have more, higher education, what professional experience he must have before, what a previous publicist experience he must have. In this regard, about authorship one of the unregulated issues of this version is the question of plagiarism. It is a very sensitive area, here I am looking at my colleague Vujic, he will understand it well, on projects to publish national and general encyclopaedias in the Croatian public. The writing of textbooks for primary and secondary schools is very often related to compiling, for a kind of enlightened plagiaristic work, and in this sense something very precise should be said. The other day I was saying that the authorial work in this House is generally not appreciated, and I reminded myself of the modern contractual definitions of plagiarism where plagiarism is considered a line of words in sentence that exceeds number four. This, of course, in math textbooks where two and two are always four, is not so easy to achieve, and it would be good to do something about it. When it comes to the definitions of textbooks, they seem rather alienating. I can understand that, but I would like an average educated mother or father to understand what a textbook is. He doesn't know a book in the entire Bookbook Act. It should be said that the textbook is a basic teaching book or perhaps a basic teaching book and a basic knowledge source for students or one of the basic sources of knowledge for books, and may appear in printed and electronic form. Here you accepted the suggestion of a colleague from the SDP, Lugarićka, but in a later article of the law. No idea, when it comes to conflicts of interest, I think you've accepted one can suggestion but in the wrong way. I think Article 18 says that an individual and a publisher can be punished if they influence teachers and teachers in selecting textbooks. It's a bad formulation. That wasn't the intensity of my proposal. They should influence with professional criteria, with some values, with presentations of students. What needs to be clearly said should be prevented from bribery and corruption in this area and this should be made very clear as to what type of prohibited influence it is. You should think about it when one textbook is found on the list of Ministry textbooks, what are the possibilities of influence, for example, through promotion. Let's say you can hire a Norther who says I'm studying exclusively from a physics textbook written by my colleague Zlatko Kramarić. Whether it's fair or not, fair influence. Then question the license of the publisher. I think it's a completely unnecessary institution. Licensing publishers is one funny thing, because the publishing office is very clearly defined as sending that house and now some extra licensing by the ministry won't be necessary at all. You should consider whether the author, a textbook writer, can appear as one who can offer his textbook so that expost can choose a publisher. It would strengthen the position of the author. Because in general, this law as well as the old law speaks more of relations between the ministry's publishers, the commission, and I'm going to say a few things about it. When it comes to the concept of talent, he's a little out of date, as if he's written by once-in-a-lifetime appologists of the Football Club Dynamo. When a cult of talent was created by football players who had never done anything in their own careers. The talent is one of the basic assumptions of success, but in modern societies and traditional societies, other values are much more important, meaning working, tenacity, emotional intelligence. Therefore, when it comes to talent and the ability to give children more chance in this regard than average, the concept of talent should be redefined. Because you have a lot of Mensa members who have never finished elementary school or high school, who are troubled children, in that sense, there is also something to be done in this area. Finally, when it comes to the committee approval system, I will quote you one of the great physicists, and it's called Fayman, he died and wrote, he worked in a similar system of approval of textbooks in the United States, and he often worked in the textbook committees, and he wrote a book called "You're definitely joking, Mr. Fayman" in which he proved that he was often approached by textbooks who had covers, and inside of my proposal were empty pages, and that there was often a shift of attempts at bribery by publishers and authors, and in that sense when it comes to conflicts of interest and article 18 that was aimed at preventing corruption in that area, it must be thought also about preventing corruption in relation to the activities of the ministry and its organs concerning the publication of textbooks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60141	Thank you very much, colleague. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Representative Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60142	Madam Vice-President, I believe that Article 214 has been injured in an article saying that the representative is being warned if he demeans or insults the president or other MPs. I believe that in his debate, Mr. Ljetica demeaned and insulted the representative Mrs. Lugaric because he had wronged her last name and, speaking of her presentation, said Commissioner Lugarićka. I kindly ask that such things should not be tolerated in this Chamber because, among other things, it is possible to distort the name of Parliamentarians in this way. In this case, he did so in relation to MP Lugaric. ... I'm sorry, but please be careful. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60143	Thank you very much, colleague. ... The representative of Letica is seeking a warning, so he will not receive it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The important thing is that he noticed his failure. I guess it's a mistake and an apology. Representative Marija Lugarić called for the replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60144	Comrade Letica, I would like to refer in the replica just to one part of the quote that you spoke about licensing publishers and I find it quite justified to note that the license can only be obtained by a registered publishing house. If we notice, if we look at the catalogue of textbooks today, a good part of the textbook for secondary schools, for vocational schools issue or for secondary vocational schools as a legal person. So, because that's what their teachers wrote. We simply do not have a profession to deal with or even authors in our own story. It seems to me that in that part of the proposal, little may have taken too much into account these great professions, Croatian, mathematics, etc., and in fact most textbooks from the catalogues are textbooks in the number of secondary vocational schools for which there is really no interest in registered publishers, which will not be entirely resolved by the question of textbooks with a small story. I already think that it should really allow schools to appear as publishers, or authors in their own story because there is no reason, it has worked pretty well so far because there are no problems about conflicts of interest or anything, because it is really very small reports. And to some extent, there is a rather undeveloped area of methodical-didactic design of what is taught in vocational schools, makes it richer and actually very often represents the only sources of relevant methodical literature.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60145	Thank you very much, colleague. Replication response, Agent Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60146	Yeah, first of all, I didn't really want to offend you, colleague Lugaric. That's what we're gonna do. We're gonna play a game of white, so I'm gonna prove it. And as for your comments on publishing, there are indeed many elements of bureaucraticity in this model of publishing textbooks. I would even allow innovative textbooks if they were genius, no matter who the publisher was. And in this sense, there may have been a need to introduce to the textbook an even one institution of state award for best textbooks at different levels in order to make it more potent. Because if we have 50 prizes for the best athletes, we don't have any prize for the best writers of the best textbooks. Some of them remain intergenerational bestsellers and what they say is ever green.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60147	Thank you very much. This was indeed an unusual apology. Let's move on with the debates. Pero Kovacevic, here you go, fellow MP.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60148	Thank you very much, dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the ministry. So the logic of things, according to our Rules of Procedure, says that it is generally necessary to pass a law in two readings in order to get a better text in the second reading, or something that will be both the desire and the desire of all those to whom this law applies. Unfortunately, in this case, the situation is reversed. It was a far better draft of the Law, meaning the text of the Law in first reading than it is now in the final proposal of the Law. And if that were the case, I will only now read to you what the Secretary of State, Želimir Janjic, finally discussed the first reading for this Law, means last year in December he said. He said the idea of liberalism was woven into the 2001 Law on textbooks has turned into market fundamentalism, and as he said in today's debate, I agree. He also stated that teachers say that there are too many parallel textbooks and that parents cannot inherit and that they are expensive. That, he says, is enough reason to move towards change and seek better solutions. He said and thanked all those who made concrete comments and suggestions in the debate. So what do we get now? We got SDP's 2001 bill. So what did you do to change and supplement that law in the first place? What did you do to change and supplement that law in the first place? You did not have to edit the conflict of interest because you already exist in the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. What did you do? The situation says the following. According to data, Croatian students are now learning from about a thousand 200 textbooks and manuals. Here I think of a high and elementary school student, and that 9 textbooks are available for one subject. Come on, now there's gonna be that version of it up to six textbooks. Furthermore, about 10 publishers publish about 500 textbooks for primary schools, and 15 more, 15 more and more and over 600 titles for secondary schools. From this year to year, 150 new textbooks appear. So do we make this Law for the sake of the publishers? Are we bringing for the sake of the authors or are we bringing for primary and secondary school students? Do we want to help our parents, do we want to help teachers? No, I don't. Watch out, there's a yearly spin on the books of 300 million kunas. 300 million kunas go on textbooks a year. And who are we representing here now? Do we represent parents, do we represent students, or do we represent publishers? Whose interests are we defending in the Croatian Parliament? What have you done here? You didn't do anything. There were a lot of promises and eventually a "salto mortale" was made. It would be smarter if this law went into third reading. Why, I told you, consult the Children's Council of Knowledge. My colleague Letica and I, he's not here right now, we were the only one from the Child Knowledge Assembly, and there you should have heard from the students who talked about how heavy their bags were. That he doesn't learn from the same book as his sister or brother, and for a year he's in elementary school different. I have a neighbor who has three kids, they're in elementary school, every year every kid learns from another textbook. He's learning from another textbook. And now what have we done? We didn't do anything systematically. Will it be, the remark was that what we should do thoroughly? So it's not about quantity, it's about the quality of textbooks. Here, and we know ourselves that in many textbooks, especially for lower-class children there are words that they cannot understand such as acoustics, auditions, factors, distribution, digital... , a rondella, a perpetum cell phone, a visual traitor and things like that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now we're going back to who? We're going to hand in hand to the publishers, because the parents justifiably asked for a cheaper price for all these textbooks. Is it now defined or determined in law? It's not defined or determined by law. Once again there will be weightings and persuasion of teachers, the professor, so take my textbook and you may get a journey of sim, a journey there, one or that convenience. So I suggest the law goes into third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60149	Thank you very much, dear colleague. We have two replicas and one correction of an incorrect quote. The first replica, representative Jelena Pavići Vukičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60150	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here's what I'd like to replicate to an esteemed colleague, and on this finding, the proposal of this law was far better at first reading. Since both teachers and parents, so all interested said that this Law that is still in force today, that it is better than the bill that was then sent to the first reading procedure, I don't think it should be controversial today, but what is constantly stressed throughout the debate is the cost of books and the weight of school bags. I think we should finally admit that the problem is somewhere else, that the problem is really in two, and three-way work, in the under-space capacity of schools, because if the school had the opportunity to take care of the children for a longer period of time during the working day, that the children had both free and university activities in the course of their working day at school and that they could also write their homework at school and that they could store some of their books in a school locker, then we wouldn't, of course, discuss how difficult school books are. Today, children are increasingly interested, and children need to be able to find those things in their textbooks and other contents that are in their interest. As far as expensiveness is concerned, the textbooks are different expensive and precisely with the fact that there is a textbook that buys a new one every year so that the textbook can be inherited. The textbook must not only be inherited from the brother to the sister and vice versa, but may also be inherited to fellow classmates in other classes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60151	Thank you very much. The answer is not a replica, MP Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60152	Well, what my colleague said falls under the heading, believe it or not. She obviously talked to the parents of publishers, and we at the HSP club talked to parents who certainly didn't want to have any more textbooks and didn't want it to be an even more comprehensive curricula and program. So, say... Not parents. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60153	Thank you very much. Replica, representative Marija Lugarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60154	Collaba Kovacevic, don't be angry, but when you listed all the picnics from the textbook that, for example, the textbook contains the words that stand, then you brought it into collage with the law. It has nothing to do with the law, it's not in the law, it can't be solved in any way, it's solved through two institutes. First, to change the teaching programme, which in a large number of cases determines that it must be these and those concepts. And secondly, a textbook standard that speaks amongst other things and knowledgeable and scientific standards. Therefore, it has nothing to do with the law and I think it's wrong to mix these pots in some way, these are sublegal acts brought by the minister. From all this together, and if your discussion came up in some way with an appeal to the Minister or at the end of the request that the Croatian Parliament discuss between itself and the teaching standard it would be in some order, in this way you show, again, do not be angry, but one elemental misunderstanding in being and not knowing what the textbooks are, in which way textbooks are related to the curriculum and the plan and what they are actually and how and why they teach at school.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60155	Thank you very much. You have the right to respond to the replica of your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60156	Dear Madam Vice President. Apparently, my colleague did not listen to my presentation last time, nor did she listen to today's esteemed colleague, Sredčević, who spoke on behalf of the club. For us it is a question of textbooks, it must go in parallel with reducing the curricula and programmes. So I don't mix pots, you mix pots. But let's agree on one thing, let's each say here today who of his neighbors writes textbooks, who of his neighbors sells textbooks, and we'll see who we represent here for us. Do we represent the students and parents, as Markov says his little seas in... at school textbooks fill and carry everything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's talk about it. We all know everything, so let's talk about it and then let's just say everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60157	Thank you very much. Comrade Lugarić, you have come forward to correct the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60158	It is an incorrect quote from colleagues, Kovacevic, that we have received SDP's law. We received in the second reading of the law which was a consensus, in some ways apart from you the consensus of the profession and here in most political parties since the debate in the first reading was not political but was actually based on professional criteria that had nothing to do with politics. The fact that you're all parties and professions on one side, and the HSP party on the other side, I think that's more about you than the SDP and the profession itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60159	Thank you very much. Following the debate, President Nenad Stazic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60160	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. It is clear exactly what the government's or individual minister's relationship is to the legislative proposal he sends to the Parliament, whether there is a minister in the Parliament or not when his law is being discussed. If there's anything to be proud of, he usually comes here to the Parliament, and if he's ashamed, then he sends state secretaries and let them take out how they know and how they can. In light of this legislative proposal, it is said to bring, that it strengthens competition, and strengthening competition means either reducing or generating monopolies. This legislative proposal, however, could not be said. He's bringing in a super monopoly and it's a monopoly minister. Article 6 of this Legislative Proposal provides that a license to issue textbooks shall be granted by the Ministry under the conditions of established teaching standards, and who shall adopt the teaching standard? The training standard is brought by the minister. So the minister himself sets out the conditions under which he or she will decide or not decide, and that makes a teaching standard on the proposal of the expert commission, which is once again appointed by the minister. And however we do, whatever article we enter into this law we must go out to the door on which the minister writes. All articles of this law lead to the Minister. What's the expert commission doing? It determines the consistency of textbooks with the curriculum and programme, suggests the minister's approval of textbooks, suggests the minister's withdrawal of textbooks. Of course, it's all the minister's decision again. Now, how to choose that supposed expert commission. Is there a public competition here planned? There isn't. Are they choosing on the proposal of the profession itself? At the Minister's proposal, he decides who's professional, who's not professional. How do you get rid of them? Now, we don't know how to get rid of them, I guess with the same will of the Minister. In general, all of this will be decided under Article 7(8), closer to the provisions on the establishment of the composition, appointment and way of working of the expert commission, shall be governed by the rules which it adopts, let's imagine who you think, Minister. The Minister will set for himself everything, and the rules, and how He will choose these and whom He will choose, and why He will choose them, and when He will exchange them, and for which He will exchange them. He determines whether they are professional or not, he does not ask anyone. Such a legal proposal is also said to bring about an increase in competition. Now, let's see how professional it is or how professional it can be. We said the minister chooses them, he decides who's professional. What does it look like in practice? We had a session of the Board of Choices this morning. It is necessary to select a member of the Management Board of the Environment and Construction Efficiency Fund from the order of representatives of the Croatian Parliament. There's a few suggestions. One proposal is a master of biology that is not a member of the HDZ, another is a builder who is a member of the HDZ. I'm asking, who do you think was chosen? Is the master of biology or builder? The builder's chosen himself. You know how his expertise was defended on the board? That he used to be a minister. That's his proof, so it's a political function. Now, according to that same criterion, these experts will be elected because the minister, as well as today's committee, will decide in the morning that the builder for environmental protection issues is better quality than the master of biology. An example for that, my dears, is as long as you want. For example, Professor Misho Virak was appointed director of the hospital even though he became a member of the British Royal Society of Surgeons, the only Croat who became a member. Who replaced him, do you think? The assistant minister who is of course not a member of this Royal Society of Surgeons or will ever be but is a member of another association, of another group, is a member of the HDZ, I guess. So there's no doubt about it. The whole issue of publishing textbooks is in the hands of a minister, one person. For, give us how these members of Article 3 will work, it is an expert commission for the production of a teaching standard. How will they work? When elected by the minister and replaced by the minister, they will work according to the minister's instructions. Because that's how we'd do things differently. The minister will tell them what they must do. If they don't, he'll be relieved because he doesn't have any obstacles to relieving him. Who will choose textbooks this expert commission, how? By order of the minister. Pick this textbook for me. Don't choose one for me. And now the expert commission says so Ministers, so I won't listen to you. You won't? Well, you don't have to, so I'll replace you tomorrow. We don't have in this law any conditions to replace someone from the expert commission, to chase someone out of the expert commission. The minister also issues a license for the issue of textbooks, the minister determines which publisher is at all like to issue textbooks or not. The Minister also decides who is in conflict of interest. Imagine, so we have here one commission to prevent conflicts of interest. It decides on all other conflicts of interest except here in publishing textbooks. That will be decided by the minister independently of the commission because the commission knows, so I guess the minister knows better. Why am I saying this now? Why is this dangerous and bad? It is dangerous and bad on one hand because it leads to further centralization, to the power of the minister in one business where he should actually be excluded and run the administrative part. We, as a society, should go after independent bodies that are not dependent on policies such as regulatory bodies as they are introduced in a whole range of areas. It would be a step forward, the progress of this society towards a democratisation, towards the affirmation of expertise, towards the withdrawal of politics from everything and we are doing exactly the opposite here. Now, why isn't it quite practical? First, this law won't apply for the next school year, that's clear, those are deadlines. If the minister appoints an expert and other committee as his former colleague Hebrang hospital director, then it is clear what they will look like, how much they will be... There will be HDZ alone and no one else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's gonna happen? They'll do all that work when? When this term is up. What if there's a government shift? I'm not saying he'll come, but if a new minister comes, he'll have to throw you all out of that commission and change this law. Change the law in this sense that the profession appoints experts, not ministers. That's what you're gonna have to do. This law will have to be depoliticized. And then we're not gonna have another set of books for another five years. Well, gentlemen of the ministry, let's get this straight. This is not a matter of the minister's vanity. The vanity of the minister cannot be solved through legal solutions. I understand that the minister loves power, I realize that the minister likes to make decisions, it is seen from his perspective. But that's not why you have to propose bad, dangerous laws. Make a law that will be of general social benefit, which will prevent such self-will because you have installed one person's will as a legal system solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60161	Thank you very much. Replica representative Jelena Pavicicic-Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60162	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Although, of course, I agree with your assessment of the opposition, it is usually said that it would be desirable for the opposition to be constructive, not only if it points to flaws. So in order to correct this in some way, the monopoly influence of the minister himself may be suggested by you, as his associates, that, if the minister appointed these expert committees based on an invitation to tender which could therefore be contacted by professional individuals, but also by representatives of professional and trade unions. At the end of such expert committees, there are many. It therefore needs to be for all teaching subjects and what you have said, Mr. Stazic, is the question in which the minister will be able to do it in a quality manner for all teaching subjects, and I really don't see any reason so that the government itself may not fix this proposal in that sense so that in that article that talks about the appointment of a professional commission by the minister, the public call institute that interested persons on the one hand will be able to make. On the other hand, it will allow the minister to make both easier and better quality choices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60163	Reply to Replicate Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60164	My colleagues Pavicicic-Vukicevic such a solution that there was at least an invitation to tender, there was an old law, so I guess in this current one. Even that got thrown out. Even if it's not enough protection. But even that measure was put in place to call some kind of invitation, so that people could report out, and now it's completely left in the minister's power to decide. You're wondering how he'll know how to determine experts for all areas? Not at all. Not at all. He'll call the HDZ Central Secretary-General. He'll give him a list. It's just that it's no different.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60165	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, MP Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60166	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A colleague of Stazic says, "This law introduces the monopoly of the minister." Not a fellow Stazic. In Croatia, there are responsibilities and responsibilities. And most logically since this is about textbooks most logically that the minister of education is both responsible and competent. So it's not about any monopoly. It is indeed about the ingenuities belonging to the minister and the minister's post. And he will take his accounts before this Parliament and, of course, in front of the Croatian public. I know you regret the times when the party regulated all the questions and needs of the people for which the people were ultimately responsible, not the party. But those times are fortunately behind us. So did those SDPs who acted alike.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60167	My colleague, thank you. Representative Pasecki, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60168	Dear Madam Vice President, I, we, would like to express one great satisfaction with the evolution of Mr. Stazic in a democratic sense. Imagine he was talking today about how we were doing in the election today, in the Committee on Elections and Appoints and imagine they proposed some HDZ. Mr. Stazic was on the same committee and imagine he did not propose a HDZ member. What's that? We suggested a member of the HDZ, but he didn't propose it. Who did he propose? The opposition one councilman. So I ask myself, what are these democratic movements? I'd like us HDZs to propose a reasonable, high-quality man, but so do these others. That's why I wanted to tell you. It would be good if you went away and asked where you went in your last term to get your instructions? Did you go to Giant Square or did you go to SDP? Where did you get your instructions? I'll beg you nicely.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60169	Thank you very much. Reply to Replicate Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60170	I must disappoint you, we didn't go anywhere because we didn't have such instructions. We worked for the knowledge and conscience And we did according to the laws that excluded every instruction. [[The intruders don't understand.]] And when you ask me about this session of the SDP Committee, he didn't have a proposal. He didn't have a suggestion. I didn't want to name the MPs that were proposed. It's just that I've basically stopped at the point of view that for some body that needs to be concerned with environmental protection, it's certainly more appropriate for a person who's a master of biology than a builder because I think he can help there more. That's for me, that's if, you asked me for a democratic step. That would be a democratic step if you could understand that to protect the environment is a much better quality person who is a master of biology than someone who works in building a house, who is a builder. If you came to that, your entire party to this society would be much better.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60171	Thank you very much, colleague. You had the right to an answer. Correction of the incorrect alleged representative of Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60172	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, I would like to correct one of my fellow MPs, Stazic, when he said that professional leadership would not be decided by the profession, alluding to the minister's lack of expertise. Mr. Stazic, Minister Dragan Primorac did not become Minister of Science, Education and Sports because he is HDZ. First of all, he's not HDZ, he's an independent candidate. And don't all... You're very kind, thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You understand, so we can't talk. And look at the Ministry's structure. There's only one assistant from HDZ. You know that well, but it's very important to say it sounds nice, spit on the HDZ, so that's good. You'll be the same in the journal tonight.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60173	Thank you very much. I see we're starting to edit the journal. It's the same democratic steps. Reported on behalf of the motionary, State Secretary Nevio Šetić. Here you go. Maybe now it'll be a little quieter atmosphere.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60174	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Madam MPs, gentlemen of the Parliament. It would be very difficult for me to answer all the questions of MP Stazic but the sea, I would like to answer some points, though, so that there is no confusion. First of all, Mr. Stazic says the minister decides on publishers. Ladies and gentlemen, we absolutely do not decide on publishers, but the publishers propose textbooks according to a well-known procedure. We can't influence that. The Ministry does not issue any textbook, nor do we participate in it in any way. And with regard to the competences of the ministers and the expert committees that evaluate, I would like to say here at the High House that we have introduced a public call for members of the expert committees that has been published today on the web, but we have found the situation that it was not such a transparent way of choosing experts to judge textbooks. Therefore, that fact stands. One more thing I would like to say is that Article 7 of this law provides for the work of expert committees as a public work. So they have every insight. Thus, it is this law that regulates these relations so that abuses do not occur and that they do not go wrong. And on the other hand, you must know that there is a need to be careful about the conflict of interest of those members who are in the commission. It's not a small task. And ladies and gentlemen, maybe just a few more thoughts. You see, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture as a parent committee has unanimously supported this law. It's no small thing. And I want to tell you, I don't understand why there is such an inability to accept a consensus, an expert consensus. Because here's the word, like some MPs said, that we listened to the profession that spoke in one law. And that's not a small thing, because it's about Croatia, it's about us. If we do not look at it this way, we can reach high - quality solutions in a short time. And that's what's good for citizens. And it seems to me that this law has nevertheless shown that it is possible to install that profession into the system itself. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60175	Thank you, Secretary of State. We have corrections to incorrect allegations. Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60176	How can you deceive the secretary of state and say that the minister doesn't determine the publisher who's about to publish? The procedure for the authorisation of the textbook shall be initiated by applying for the authorisation of the licensor's textbook which has the licence. The permit to issue textbooks shall be granted by the Ministry under the conditions laid down by the textbook standard. The standard brings the minister to the proposal of the expert commission appointed by the minister. At the beginning of the Minister's trip and at the end of the Minister's trip. He can't betray, he can't be accepted as a textbook. But one textbook that did not issue a publisher, which does not have a license on whether he will be granted a license is decided by the minister. To those who will propose it to him again, the minister decides. It's up to the minister. Don't be fooled. So say it's good. Change that if you think it's wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60177	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote, MP Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60178	Two incorrect allegations by counterpart Šetic are related to the fact that, for example, the law now states that the commission is determined by the basis of a public call. Simply, I quote your bill of law, it sets out the expert commission appointed by the minister, the point. In contrast, in the previous law, it was written that this commission was named as the basis of a public call and that it was determined depending on the type and purpose of the textbooks. Therefore, it is not true that it is now more transparent than it was. It also applies to the Educational Standards Council, which only writes that it exists to be appointed by the minister. The current regulation said that even the composition of the council, which are profiles of experts, was also prescribed to be named on the basis of a public call. Therefore, they are not correct, according to counterparts Setic, who says the current bill prescribes a more transparent and detailed procedure. Because what Stazic says is really true is that he only writes that there is something, that he is appointed a minister, and there is no way to resolve what has been resolved so far, that it is called the basis of a public call and which should be the structure of these councils.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60179	Next up is representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60180	Dear Madam Vice President, respected members of the ministry, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen. Let me briefly refer you to the adoption of this law, a law that should therefore, to a large extent, determine the fate of textbooks that would be published in the coming years. Driving to the Parliament today on the news I listened to the announcement of the work of the Croatian Parliament and the announcement of this very point. As a result, the most important argument to pass this law has led the journalist to reduce the weight of school bags. It is interesting, then, that in this second reading, there is therefore no argument that there is a reduction in the weight of school bags. Let me just compare it for example. the assessment of the situation and the reasons for the first and second readings. The assessment of the situation in the first reading of the proposal of this law reads: "Furthermore, according to the applicable law for certain teaching subjects in use are the branch textbooks, textbooks in several notebooks for one teaching subject.". So, for example. In the Croatian language setting in the first grade of elementary school we have selected wide-ranging textbooks for initial learning of reading and writing, some of which have as many as 6 notebooks. Beginner I, II, III, trainee I, II and dictionary. Now, it points out, therefore, to the overall weight of the student bag and to the increase in the price of textbooks for this course by more than 50% compared to some other textbooks, and to which parents most often object. Thus, the consequences of this first reading are also the consequences that will arise from the adoption of this law, says that this will significantly reduce the retail price of textbooks for individual teaching subjects, as well as the weight of the student bag. Here, until the second reading, the weight of the student bag is not that it's reduced, but simply she's gone. In the assessment of the state, the new sentence reads: "This significantly contributes to increasing the price of textbooks for this course by more than 50% compared to some other textbooks, and what parents most often object to." So I don't think this was necessary, so that's the law in the first reading, this is the law in the second reading. So they had to be directed in that direction where everything was going and going. So it was the weight of the study bag, both literally and in a transmitted sense. So as for this law in the second reading, I think there are good solutions that go that way. So, for example. It is said that this law will contribute to the market of fewer textbooks. So I think that's what's gonna happen. So we know that according to one case in the previous years there were 6 and 7 or even more textbooks. The law of Article 15 thus determines that it shall be up to 3 textbooks. By opening up the possibility to propose some other textbooks, paragraph 2. At that we insisted on our club in the debate during the first reading, fearing therefore the danger of closing that circle and opening up the possibility that more quality textbooks that are on the market may be more than three, although there is the possibility of including them in the work of elementary schools. I think that's a good solution. What I have an objection to, and the same goes to about the conclusion of the Committee on Science, Education and Education of our Parliament, and it's about the wide-ranging textbooks. I'm warning you that if on the one hand what we've done, we control the number of students, we'll be able to open up the possibility that we can't control the number of expanded textbooks. So I don't doubt and therefore support their didactic usefulness, but I agree that we don't open up a space of manipulation here on the other hand, so that these branch textbooks don't introduce themselves to almost all the items where they wouldn't actually be needed, so that there's a hyper production, and thus to raise prices, the total prices of textbooks by one year. And here I also support the conclusion of the parent committee that the proposal of the teaching standard is given to the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament, so other than us parliamentary representatives, the members of this Committee are therefore professionals in pedagoggy and education, so that they too could control the overall process that I am afraid could escape control as some compensation for the control of the number of textbooks. And that's one of the conditions under which you would accept this law. So I was talking about this, about this weight reduction of the school bag in a literal or conveyed sense. I think it's important, so what's qualitative to do is to make that weight of the school bag lessen in that transmitted sense in such a way that we reduce the volume of the material. For a long time, it has been said about the dispensation of students, so we all agree that our students are overloaded with material, that this often causes frustration in them, which the material cannot master in a quality way. It is then a source of frustration, so both parents and teachers, and as a result, we often unfortunately witness that, that the presence of various forms of violence in our schools. Therefore, I think we should move to discharging our educational standards and programmes. We know that for a long time the government has promoted HNOS, it has been promoted since last June 1st, that it is being implemented in a number of schools as a pilot project, but we do not have any feedback for now when and how it will be implemented in all schools in the Republic of Croatia, and for the above reasons I think it is very important that we move towards dispensing students and enabling creative education as it says in the goals of HNOS. So there are some other good changes in this law. The law certainly contributes to its change in Article 4 to make our textbooks more quality, since strict criteria are set, so the textbook must meet the scientific, pedagogical, psychological, quantitative, methodical, ethical, linguistic, graphic and technical requirements set by the teaching standard. It is also important to approve the use of textbooks that are contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and which is inappropriate with regard to human minority rights, fundamental freedoms and gender relations and education for democratic society. I think this is extremely important because unfortunately in our textbooks, we have found all sorts of content that has just been in line with these standards. Finally, I would like to reiterate that, with the condition previously stated, to accept the conclusion of the parent committee, I will support this law, but once again, I stress that this law only partially solves the problem of therefore the difficult school bags of our students both in that literal and in that translated sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60181	Thank you very much. We have replicas. First representative of Ledinsky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60182	Thank you, Vice President. Here's a colleague, Pavlic, I can tell you that he would totally agree with your discussion about the overload of school bags. Here's my personal experience, since my kid's going to grade two, I went to school with him this morning and I can say I helped him carry that bag. I don't know if the secretaries know how many kilos that bag has, but for a child who weighs 25 kilos, it's inconceivable that this bag weighs half his weight and it's certainly a load to carry. But why is that? I would say that this is primarily due to and in this law, as set out in Article 2. The textbook is said to be a basic teaching tool. Today when we talk about it, I don't think we should say in such a way that it's a basic teaching tool, because today we are in some new times in the 21st century, that attitude was probably worth it in the last century and before that, when the teacher was a lecturer of knowledge, when students were supposed to remember what it says in the textbook in that single and wise book. Today we've gone much further and I think today's textbook should only be understood as one of the sources of knowledge, so-called. A multimedia source of knowledge. And because of that, even though the arguments that are mentioned and supplemented in the second reading, I think that we should nevertheless devote much more concern to not just burdening a child with this weight of the bag than to allow in a different way to come to that knowledge. Because today every child knows how to open the Internet and look at it, and my kid who's in second grade knows when something doesn't know how to go to Google and get more knowledge, and in that part, I agree with my colleague Pavlico that it should be relieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60183	Thank you. Replica reply, Honored Representative Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60184	All I can say is that I thank Mr. Ledinsky for filling me in. Indeed, school bags are too heavy for all of our students from 1st to 8th grade, both in the literal and the conveyed sense. From the weights they carry every day to schools and back, ten, 15 kilometers to commitments that may be even more difficult in that same school because there has been no discharge and these obligations, as I said, challenge students, teachers, parents, and frustrations that unfortunately escalate and turn into something ugly that happens in our schools. But we have to have a whole concept, not focus, so just one element, and then there's going to be important and quality changes in our schooling, that's where I agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60185	Replica, Honored Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60186	Thank you, Mr. President. I am pleased, here, that my colleague Pavlic pointed out all the quality changes that this Law has made and I agree with him that this is obviously a major improvement. And in that sense, I don't think there's gonna be a problem with this bill's election. However, I would like to point out something that could have been heard during the debate, and it was about a section related to publishers and authors. In fact, it is certain that this bill will prevent conflict of interest. But I hope that this bill will also be something that we could call a hidden conflict of interest, which was because in 2001 a law was passed that allowed and opened the door, a wide door to go unselectively, without professional processing, into school textbooks that don't deserve to come in. That's what this is about. Today we have comments from the SDP order that HDZ is going to hand in hand to the publishers. It doesn't work, nor does it want to go because it's about to go hand-to-hand with professional textbooks and expert opinion. There's great progress and what the secretary of state said, that actually the profession helped and not only the profession but the public. Our citizens helped with their attitudes because we all know that school bags are very heavy. They're hard because we have textbooks that are divided into six, so we have that problem. However, what we will certainly prevent is that the textbooks enter the small door simply because it is the author of the textbook in a family relationship with one of the representatives or I do not know who, as unfortunately, was the case in the previous session. Unfortunately, we had such phenomena that, without professional analysis, the textbooks only entered the school because some of theirs, therefore, whose family members are sitting in this body or that body. They were sitting in that meeting, the former meeting, so the Parliament and the Ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60187	Thank you very much. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60188	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Representatives of the Government. Here's what to say for this final bill on textbooks for elementary and high school. The appearance of this final proposal with the lack of presence of the minister himself is interesting. There were great promises not only of the government but of the minister himself. Let's just remember the beginning of the school year, the promises, the attendance amongst the students of champions, in that giddy atmosphere the promise of parents, the school bag, in the future I guarantee you will be easier, not children carrying such a heavy burden, especially those little children. And here's what he's telling Mr. Secretary who's not here right now. I'll tell you about it a little bit later because it has to do with the law itself. Its lack of presence, and because of the abundance of promises, but little, almost none of it has been accomplished. That mother says that her first child carries one third of her own weight on her back every day. And she says, I don't think anything's going to change in, because she didn't believe, she didn't believe those promises, so she said that maybe something could just change when the minister went to work every day and carried a third of his own burden to the government. Or the weight of your own weight. So the promises were empty. However, what has been achieved here in the first place? What's good and what are corrections to the original proposal is back to what we already had. And then, but we still need to figure out in public that something spectacular is happening a lot. And just maybe that new thing, that's what our colleague Stazic said in detail. Why isn't there a minister here? Why there is no otherwise minister, or doctoral doctoral doctorate Dragan Primorac, minister of science, education and sports in front of the Parliament. Or why it appears very rarely, and when it comes to the current morning, it just comes and goes. Especially if it's reserved for a question. Why isn't he here today? Why won't our minister who likes to boast about communicability communicate with the Croatian Assembly? What's he afraid of? Why does our Minister Primorac prefer to be behind Prime Minister Sanader's back rather than in front of the Croatian Parliament? Now the secret of that and the way it behaves because it's often, it's always, it's almost no exception, lies right in this centrism that my colleague Stazic was talking about. And these are the things that have gotten worse compared to what we've been through. This is even about preventing conflicts of interest, but it is only the minister who decides which textbook he will be in one way or another. And if we see some legal proposals that come from different ministries, so no such centrism, no such self-centerism, and what's that for? So no wise minister will put a burden on himself? So what's that for? The minister has another task, and among other things one of these duties is for him to come to the Croatian Parliament as long as I am, and through this bill I can read it, and otherwise it is nice for someone to enjoy their work. Well, that's nice, but that job is also a little awkward. So, when you just don't talk somewhere, you ask something like that in the Croatian Parliament. But why and why is that? Because there are no promises here. Nothing new has happened here, nothing spectacular. What are improvements compared to the original proposal is exactly what is the most important solution that exists. But I'm saying, there's got to be an impression of a lot of work, and that's how much work has been done, and we already have it all figured out. However, we have to do something in general when we talk about textbooks admitted, which has been a major improvement for the last five years, six years already what we had in textbooks until 2000 and even after a while. Here's finally more in our textbooks you can't find in a second-class reader's book, for girls instructions to mom for the dough, is that what the dough looks like? Fortunately, there are no more nebuloses that your textbooks have plentiful. However, what I find very important and what it is trying to do in one good way is Article 3, but what in this sense suffers a certain criticism to make things even better and more precise. In this regard, the Commission notes that, in the light of the reasons set out in Article 3(3) of the basic Regulation, the Commission considers that, in the light of the reasons set out in Article 3(3) of the basic Regulation, the Commission considers that the Commission considers that there is no evidence that the I don't think it's a good one formulation, that you should do an inversion and move proactively and not need to, with the full release of this first part of the sentence that you won't approve of the use of textbooks whose content is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic. Well, that's something that's meant to be. But I think that this second part should be turned upside down in a way that is precisely, not that it will not approve the use of textbooks that are inappropriate in terms of human and minority rights, but that just as textbooks have to be stimulant and affirmation of human and minority rights, because then in this way, when it is negatively set, then all of this is tolerated to some certain limit, or maybe it was deliberately intended to meet perhaps different worlds. The same is true in terms of fundamental freedom and gender relations. We do not need textbooks that are inappropriately depicted by these relationships, but rather by management that will stimulate differentiation, diversity, acceptance of others and others. These textbooks should be affirmed and I think that this should be the true and right essence of this article in its own paragraph 3 of this article. And what I pointed out on the first proposal, I don't think it's good that the student standard in general brings itself a minister because our system needs to function in a day-to-day situation of the humanist solution, not because it's about this or that minister. Whether the worldview of a particular minister will also affect this teaching standard and then on this assessment whether it is a textbook, whether some textbook contains some things that are inappropriate in terms of human minority rights, fundamental freedoms and relations between sexes. If one part of that standard, it is certain and inevitable that it must be determined by the minister himself, but it would be a good thing that most of what is going on within the student standard falls into legislation. I think it's good, it's better, it's safer anyway, and then it doesn't take this kind of objection to someone's attitudes and their worldview. And I would especially like to focus on something that has already been pointed out, this expert commission appointed by the Minister himself, and it is not visible and precise, it may not even matter whether he is appointed by the Minister or not, but if they are not in a more detailed way marked by those who may be, or those who propose them. We don't have representatives of civil associations here and even parents and they have something to say about it, on their own individual associations team before our textbooks are still completely devoid of some sexual views about sex and still, although I say that things have improved quite significantly, but the little girl is still shown quite passively in relation to boys, as well as in respect of occupations that are still favored for male sex. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60189	Okay. Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60190	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it's incorrect what my colleague said went back to the way it was, with this bill that we actually went back to the old law and there was no improvement or change. So here I am just going to count a few improvements that this new bill makes. First, the issue of the branched textbooks she spoke about will be resolved on the teaching standard, then a license is introduced for the publishers issued by the ministry, the issue of conflict of interest has been regulated, the possibility of finishing textbooks is introduced to correct the observed shortcomings as soon as possible, etc. Therefore, it is simply incorrect here that all the members of the expert body who discussed this proposal agreed unanimously and all the members of the board, therefore both opposition and ruling, all the members of the panel of the expert body that discussed this proposal, agreed that there are improvements and that these improvements will ultimately mean improvement for all those concerned, above all, students and teachers, teachers.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60191	Thank you. It was a correction to an incorrect quote, wasn't it? Replica, distinguished representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60192	And now something a little longer and wider about what a colleague started talking about. I'm sorry that there's no recipe for the pastry and that there's no way to get pasta in one of the school textbooks, I'm really sorry that I think it would be useful to know everyone, regardless of the sex of the child, I think it would be useful to know how to come and how to make basic foods, our daily bread. So in this sense, I absolutely cannot support such an attitude that it's good that what's being thrown out, what's been thrown out of the textbook, I just think it's absolutely inappropriate. As for the minister himself and his responsibilities here, he is trying again from the ranks of the SDP to suggest that the minister is some kind of monopolies, who then, based only on some of his personal views, sign solutions for expert commissions or solutions to the teaching standard, etc. It's simply incorrect. You must know the procedure, it may have been so in your time, at the time of the SDP that the minister had not contacted anyone or communicated with anyone, especially with the profession, and then, according to some of his views, he made his own conclusions and certain solutions. I can say that, as regards today's situation in the ministry, the minister actually signs certain solutions and makes certain proposals or brings certain acts that are within his jurisdiction, but based on cooperation with the profession, based on what has already been done, professional preparation of such an act. So this solution, which they participated in, was made by experts and exclusively by experts, that's what this is all about. And that's why the teaching standard as a sublegal act, of course, will be signed by the minister, but in his preparation the people of the profession participated. So it won't be possible to pass a textbook whose author is actually in a family relationship with someone from the ministry, it certainly won't be able to happen unlike what happened before.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60193	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60194	First of all, here's a replication, and that's what I'm correcting. It's not communication with anyone. It's communication with anyone. Then let's move on as far as the test goes. Well, the message was that it was a message to your mother, you know. Well, that's what you're thinking here maybe, I believe you know that, but maybe you just like it that way and you regret these times. So when the textbooks contained it, that's what your mother's instructions are, even though you yourself know 99% of the bakers, and that's another big illogicality. It's obvious that it's a little someone who's read and applied. So it's a sexist approach to jobs that are reserved for girls, for boys, later on for men and women for suggesting then textbooks that you show so sorry for. Otherwise, the very composition of the council or the definition of these roles has been much better regulated before, and that's what it is, and I don't think you have the right arguments when you're talking about something that I didn't even say, but when you're saying it in the replica, then you're going to compare those two texts and you're going to see a deterioration even though I've been telling you in this content part on improvements. And as for the minister himself you wanted, I don't know how to justify his indifference here in the Assembly is the fact that Mr. Minister is afraid of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60195	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60196	My colleague Anticevic was talking about how there is no minister here. And indeed, we all see that there is no minister. Every moment for colleagues and Šetić and Janjic, they are very often there and in a very good way defending what they stand for. That's what I can do or I don't have to get along. But indeed, the minister isn't here. Look, we're talking about schools. When you don't come to school then you have to justify the student, then I, as the father of two kids who go, say, one in primary school, one in high school, one in high school, have to give some kind of apology or send it to a doctor to bring an apology. So I suggest that when ministers don't come to the Parliament like here's our minister who's not here right now that they're also obliged to apologize to this Parliament in some way, maybe bring an apology so if a lot of them aren't there, if it's repeated then as a student can be excluded from class so the Parliament could rule him out of the government if it's justice. So why would the student have greater obligations and subject to a more rigorous form of control if he fulfilled his obligations than one minister in the Croatian government. This is a legislative body. Ministers are executives, we choose them, we need them to answer. I think we should stand up for this especially for our HDZ colleagues. I mean, for example, a colleague. I'm glad you wish me good health, and I wish you good health. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And more than that, mind everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60197	Thank you. And the answer to the replica. The minister really apologized, it's not written, but he's at the opening of a school hall in Little Subotica. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60198	So by law, it is quite clear that the minister can replace the secretary of state, or secretary of state, because there are many thanks to God. And that's not the problem. But the problem is now that it's perfectly clear. It's been two years. There's never been a minister. It never does. The only exception is the last Sports Act. So this is okay, what you say and especially apostrophe when you're replicating my colleague Jurovic. It is an understanding in essence and how else to understand this frequent lack of presence in front of the Croatian Parliament but rather concerned by the Croatian Parliament where the minister is asking a question. So much for understanding communication, so much for understanding democracy that they're based or should be fundamental
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60199	Thank you. Replica's esteemed representative Pacek.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60200	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I generally agree with your exposure. However, I think that something more specific should be said about the very reasons for the adoption, especially with regard to certain provisions. Look, it's interesting that the Proposer explains who can't be in the commission, and these can't be people from the ministry, the school office, etc. But he doesn't say who he might be. And I think it's a much more important question to say who might be, that we have quality here and that we have a profession that needs to be represented. It is also an interesting question to say that the textbook is a teaching tool and will not be more than three pieces in use. The question is whether three is too much. I think it's too much if the procedure provided for by this law is as perfect as the proposer claims. Interestingly, textbooks do not motivate publishers to modernize them if they are approved indefinitely. I think there's a problem here, too, because it happens the other way around. If we give the publisher too much freedom, then he often changes textbooks and, of course, parents must constantly buy new and new ones that require expenses. Finally, what is particularly interesting is what is written in Article 10 for a particular teaching subject if there is no approved textbook, the Minister may, on a proposal from the Committee for that teaching subject, authorise the use of textbooks which are not issued in the procedure prescribed by this law. This is particularly interesting, so I would ask the Secretary of State to show that the minister can act contrary to this law, because Article 10(4) allows him to do so, in order to authorise the use of textbooks which are not issued in the procedure prescribed by this law. I have never heard of such a legal norm in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60201	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60202	Well, you've noticed very well, colleague Pacek. In this Article 10, such a textbook may also be approved. But what's even scarier is if you can look at the end of a criminal order and see that for the most recent traffic violation, there's a greater penalty, a fine than the one that's going to be punished by that bogeyman who's going to get a good reprisal of these kinds of jobs. And one more thing. What was great announcements from the minister himself, and yet quite one, different solution from the original one that we had noticed about why some textbook should strictly last just 4 years regardless of anything that happened, here in this legal final proposal, the solution suggests everything that the textbooks will last for just one year. So much for the minister's promise because it also points to the provision of Article 2, paragraph 1, the last indent that says and what you draw attention to that the textbook catalogue is just an act containing a list of approved textbooks to be used in the next school year. And that's exactly what you're talking about. And what parents were most afraid of right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60203	Honorable representative Jozo Radosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60204	Dear Mr. President, gentlemen of the State Secretary's textbook is certainly a very important element of the teaching process, but the textbook should only come at the end when everything is prepared then, on the basis of the very clear concepts of the educational process, should talk about textbooks. And we, as in many other cases concerning the work of this ministry, have taken the opposite path. In order to have a good textbook, we need to have a Croatian national educational standard. We know what's going on with those standards. The Croatian national educational standard for elementary schools is only in experimental phase, and the Croatian national educational standard for high school which is much more complicated where there is much more teaching content it is probably only in the stage of preparation, and even though they should already have national exams as a preparation for the final exam, the state graduation by students, students who are now going to high school. So we don't have textbooks that are standardised. So we don't have a Croatian national education stand. No, they have not yet started national exams because the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education is yet to be formed, and these students, in accordance with these standards, should, of course and according to these students, be subject to national exams which should be the introduction of the final maturity exam, i.e. the national prom. So that's the question that we're kind of going from the back to the beginning, and we're not following the order that we should have. After the Croatian National Education Standard, either for primary or secondary schools, you should have a teacher's manual, then curricula, plans and programmes, and only after that as a fruit of all this, then you can have a quality textbook that rests truly on a well-founded concept of primary or secondary education. And we don't have that. We're exhausting ourselves by saying that school bags will be easier. Now there is no argument in the new proposal because this law, the new concept of textbooks proposed by it, is of course a question of how new it is because the ministry has given up most of its proposals, will neither increase nor reduce the weight of school bags. And the question of the differentiation of textbooks is essentially a technical question. The fundamental question is how did you determine the extent of what knowledge the student should have? And in order for you to have it, you have to have all these steps that I was talking about from the Croatian national educational standard, so we called it to the curricula and the program. Only then can you really reduce the content if you feel that this is a necessary curriculum and program and then only on the basis of it can you possibly have easier school bags. But the very fact that the textbooks will be distinguished or undivided is a technical question. Of course, this current solution that has been accepted, which is to be kept until now until the standards are established, will perhaps leave the school bags the same as they have been so far. We'll see what the minister will do in a textbook standard he should be bringing soon. So we stop at side issues, on surface events, at an easy attempt to get the public easily because, of course, the public or parents, or the students themselves, are against both the heavy and excessive school programme and then against the heavy bags, but the question is not solved in this way but by the adoption of the right standards, by reducing if we consider it necessary, of course, and we need to bear the responsibility of the school programme, and only then do we have to decide whether these textbooks will be distinguished or not, and on that basis we can also adopt these laws and then expect the consequences. So the way this whole story is set up is actually completely the other way around than it really should be. I'm glad Secretary of State Janjic asked for a word. I hope he answers some of the questions I asked here. What's indisputable, as far as this law is concerned, is that this law gives very high authority to the minister. But that still doesn't mean that textbooks will be as quality as it was written and written in the light of this law. It's a long way from giving authority to a minister. To make the system clearer in this regard, so that we can claim that the textbooks will indeed be of a better quality. And so far, we have had a commission in the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports. And so far, it's decided on textbooks. So far, his relationship with the minister or the minister towards the commission has been more or less the same, so we were well aware of the unquality textbooks. The very fact that in some small details of this final bill, we are changing some things doesn't mean that the textbooks that we will have will be better quality, and the reason why I just said that we haven't laid the foundations, the basic concept, the standard from which a quality textbook should come out as a final product. And that's the fundamental question that's actually being ignored here, and so the barata with these superficial statements about how the school bags are going to be easier. And as I said this law, this final bill in that sense will not bring either positive or negative shifts. We'll see what the textbook standard does in that sense. But if he's on the trail of the bill's proposal, so in the first reading, if he's suspended the branching textbooks it'll lead to a physical increase in school bags, and of course the content in that sense is explicitly spoken. Because the fact that the textbook is open or does not mean anything about the real content that is taught in that textbook. So here is the possibility that we might actually have six textbooks. In the textbook catalogue, we can have 6 textbooks, 3 that have passed this greatest quota, get the highest percentage of teacher selection and have to cross 10%. But the question is, what about the other three textbooks? Whether or not the publisher, who has not passed the 10% quota, will say it is 3%, and may also be 3%, because these are the first three if the ministry decides, will this publisher have an interest in that textbook, will therefore have business motives to keep that textbook on the catalogue. That's not what you're talking about here. Therefore, this bill is not revolutionary as announced. It offers some shifts in some segments relative to the existing state. And the final assessment of all that will be possible to give, or worse still, feel only after the learning standard is passed and then we'll see where we are. But I repeat, the assumption for all of this is the adoption of the Croatian National Educational Standard for both primary schools and secondary schools, teaching manuals, teaching facilities, plans and programmes. Then we can be, hopefully more than that now is the case that the textbook as a final product will be quality. Based on this bill and the one we had in our first reading, the textbooks will be better quality, it is a very arbitrary assessment of the representatives of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60205	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Frano Matušić. Then the replica, the esteemed representative Peter Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60206	Mr. President, colleagues. Yesterday at the debate in the Committee on Education and Science and Culture attended by the opposition representatives, including the president of the party to which Rados belongs, an absolute agreement has been reached that this bill adopted all relevant remarks made on the occasion of the first reading and that it is clear, with the imperfections carried out by each bill, something that can be reached on a consensus. And that conclusion was reached by the Committee and on the Committee which was the expert body there were no longer any relevant observations and objections to the quality of this law. I'm not saying he's perfect. Far from it, but I think I'm a little surprised by the entrenchedness and more... the comments which would have a much greater weight if they had been made on the Committee yesterday, on a professional body which may have adopted some of these observations, and therefore would have been avoided by some of the situations which it regrets. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because it seems to me when it comes to children, educational standards, that some party-like animosities must absolutely forget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60207	Replication response, distinguished representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60208	I don't know where my colleague Selem is in this thing that I've been saying and I've noticed any entrenchedness. I've spoken to the argument of my point of view. The fact is, I suppose it's true what he said, that the Committee adopted this bill as a majority, therefore, or without a vote against. But that doesn't mean the bill is good. I didn't claim my colleague, Selem, that this law was worse than the previous law. I'm just saying that it's an important shift in relation to the first reading of the law that I think was very bad. And what the results of this law will be, whether it will really lead to better textbooks or not, we will see that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60209	Second replica, Honored Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60210	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You say, dear colleague Rados, it's not this law, it brings nothing as revolutionary as it was announced. That's the secret to the work of this ministry, Minister Primorac. This has been announced for weeks as a rescue solution that will finally introduce order into an area that the minister handles. But that's never exactly the case. That's what happened at the Sports Act. We saw what that law passed. He's actually proposing the only forgiveness of his debts to football clubs. And nothing else, no other important question has solved. Like this law where he was said to reduce the weight of school bags. It has nothing to do with the weight of school bags. Edit teaching content. It's got nothing to do with that. This law is about only one thing, to increase the minister's powers indefinitely. Well, you wouldn't say that, then you're talking about school bags for weeks, then you're talking about revolutionary shifts for weeks. When it comes here to Parliament, when it gets a little bit loose, when you see what these articles mean, then it comes down to not having revolutionary shifts, that it's a step backwards from the existing legal solution and that there's only one and one behind it, and that's the Minister's desire to manage it all.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60211	Replication response, distinguished representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60212	I fully agree with fellow Stazic with you that often times, and this is very often exactly the case with this ministry that we are talking about, very bombistically announces some moves, and then when the public faces the fact that there is no great benefit from it, or the public opposes it then gives up. So, as you know, there was a case with a percentage assessment announcement, so that the existing evaluation system was converted to scores of up to 100, and then after the minister said it was very soon, and then the announcement that schools would be open by 10 o'clock a night to meet students and citizens, and then it was seen that it cost, and so it was also overnight that the thesis and the idea served by it gave up. And as for this case of textbooks, it was an announcement when this school year began to go to this school year with new school textbooks, and the real result is that according to the letter of this law, its provisions will be consumed only in the school year 2007/2008. Only then will this law fully enter into force, even though as I said it had been announced already at the beginning of this school year is the bombing, the new textbook in the new school year, and it will be at least two years late.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60213	Next replica, distinguished representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60214	Dear fellow Radoš, I fully agree with what you have said, I think you have put very well the relationship between the programme plan and the textbooks in fact throughout this context of education policy. But I would really like to respond to that quote actually from your presentation that you set a national educational standard as a prerequisite for all other events in school, i.e. in education policy. What we need is our education system, our all-regulatory education system doesn't even know the national educational standard. Not even one parliamentary question I referred to Minister Primorac, Minister Primorac replied that HNOS was actually just a recommended document since the law knows only the teaching plan and the programme, which is significantly different from the HNOS itself. So in addition to agreeing on what order and what everything should be done together, I think that, in addition to the debate on these priority measures that we need to do here, what I agree with you, in some way, and legally legalizing everything that has been done so far, or at least trying to do it, or the most common case is going to create illusions that are being done.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60215	Replication response, distinguished representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60216	I said when I said that we call it the Croatian national educational standard. The name itself is not crucial. I agree with you colleagues that it would be a good idea for the standard, so a basic standard of education to legalise it not to be a college document. What is an even bigger problem with what you have stated, which we called this Croatian national educational standard one way or another, whether it is legally binding or not, which we do not have, and on the basis of that standard, of course all other documents must be built, and at the top of that process should be textbooks.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60217	Next replica, respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60218	Thank you, Mr. President. First I'm going to correct this quote that was...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60219	No, you won't be correcting the quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60220	I'll replicate, of course, and among other things, fine. In any case, counterpart Rados said there are no significant improvements, there are no more revolutionary turns. Of course there's no revolution, but fortunately the revolution is behind us, fellow Radosh. In any case, however, this bill brings significant improvements. He's making assumptions that these questions you're talking about would be arranged right now, about reducing the weight of textbooks. Well, of course, it will be resolved through the teaching standard, and this law cannot address some of the articles of the law itself. It is absolutely certain that the teaching standard will determine, above all, the quality of these same textbooks, and will try not to disperse this quality through one class in several textbooks, so through expanded textbooks, rather than really taking care of what age it is intended for and who will wear it every day and in what way. So, of course, that improvement will be very significant. As for your quote of what you said most of it was brought to the board. It's not majority but unanimous. You know that's a big difference. We are constantly pointing fingers at the minister as he is now the only one who will decide, but the waist will make a strong decision in the preparation of all the proposals that the minister will eventually sign. I would even say that his role was reduced only to the one who would sign, the attitude of the profession that prepared a complete proposal and a textbook standard and everything else. Of course, HNOS is one of the assumptions, but when you talk about HNOS then admit that this government is dealing with that problem that wants things to be put in place. We know what lies ahead in Europe from the Bologna process, but you didn't have the courage or the strength to do that, we didn't have any standard. Now we want to introduce and make it clear what a Croatian national educational standard is. So that's the difference between you and us.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60221	Replication response, distinguished representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60222	I am colleague Matušić probably at least as much as you against revolutions, but some things should be done quickly enough. Well, you can't just spend four years on adopting standards, and then it takes four more years for you to realize, so for documents, it's four more years, and that process is going on forever. That doesn't make sense. If we feel that the situation in education is bad, then we must do things faster than we do. We're going too slow, we're changing direction, and it leaves a bad impression, and we're ultimately not achieving a fundamental goal. As for your expectations that these great shifts of those we expect, both you and I, will bring a learning standard, I can only share your hopes and your expectations, but this law does not yet guarantee it. It's just a guess, optimism is fine, so be it, but it would be good if the law itself had already laid down provisions that would guarantee that this process would be successful. I don't see it, but I hope that this textbook standard that will be passed within 90 days of the adoption of this law, as you expect, will make some shifts. We're here, we'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60223	The next replica, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60224	Your Honor, Mr. President, you're teaching Mr. Radosh's exposure. State Secretary Željir Janjic said in his first reading that the idea of liberalism was woven into the 2001 Law on textbooks turned into market fundamentalism and he found it and said that parents expect fewer parallel textbooks, and that children can even inherit children's textbooks so that children normally expect a reduction in the scope of curricula and programmes. And that's exactly what Mr. Radosh says. We are now talking about the Law on textbooks and the curricula and the programs remain what they were. So, what's going to happen? After that will be changed curricula and programs and again publishers and textbook writers after a year, two write changed and updated edition and again in their pocket. And the students are not protected, the parents are not satisfied and the same number of parallel textbooks remains. Therefore, this is in the fullest sense the word law for publishers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60225	State Secretary Želimir Janjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60226	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Let me take a brief look at these few discussions. First, I should like to say briefly, when it comes to small press releases, such similar solutions have existed before and it is perfectly normal that we have such solutions. In fact, the publishers are not worth printing a textbook for 53 students as many as there are in the profession of transport, more specifically rail transport. In the state of Croatia we have no need to educate more students, there are so many and it is illusory to expect that the publisher will earn something, that he will be interested. Likewise, when it comes to students with special needs, it is the same when it comes to national minorities. So that's not a big deal. The publishers have no particular interest in printing such textbooks. For these reasons, it is normal for us to open up the possibility of stimulating those who will turn to small reports and co-finance from this ministry to make such textbooks appear. If we're going to cover it well. So, most of the time, this applies to vocational education, for example, in high school. Furthermore, MP Radoš mentioned national exams and brought them into contact with the Croatian national educational standard. We can't have that in a relationship. This year's national exams are held in high schools in first-class students, May 3, 4 and 5 from Croatian, mathematics and first foreign language. Therefore, these national exams will be conducted according to the existing curricula, according to the existing curricula. And in high school, according to the program according to which the student, who enrolls in this and ends. If there are any changes later, then according to these changes, the generation that enrolls will go after them. So it won't reflect on these. So the national exams in this year that are being held and the Croatian national educational standard have nothing to do with it. National exams, I'm sorry. There's been a lot of talk here about expert committees. We really need a lot of experts here, over five hundred to evaluate those new headlines that are coming up. We're going with public calls, so if you want this ministry even where nothing is written goes with public calls. For all expert groups in the preparation of national graduations. We've been making a public call for all the expert groups. So about 60 high school professors and college teachers appear. In the section we have 5. So why? So we want to get those who are highly motivated, who are certainly interested in it and who are constantly in practice and who will do the job well. So, even where we could name knowing about individual experts, even there we go with a public call. Changes in education really can't be overnight. If we've defined ourselves more recently for the state's graduation, we can't spend it right away this year. There must be some sort of preparation, it must be made clear to the students under which conditions they have entered and how this will end their education. That's why we changed the law. The students who enrolled this school year made it clear to them in the summer before enrolment that they were going to attend the national prom in 2009. Or if you want to go into vocational education, 4-year-old 2010. And we can't expect that change to happen now and that the state's graduation will be next year. No, it won't. It'll be in four. When the respected representative Kovacevic talks about the 2001 Law, therefore, which was quite liberally set up, it really happened to turn it into market fundamentalism. That's true, and that's what you discussed. I've confirmed that it really is true. What we got. We wanted as much as we could, and we got a lot of parallel textbooks. We got 9 per case, there was even more. We said, if you'll excuse me, from the opposition clubs, I had a few questions from the opposition clubs. The first summer of the 6th month when one of the MPs asked me if we were going to do anything because the situation is unacceptable when it comes to the number of parallel textbooks. Of course the others do. So if we go with some solutions, if we want to improve, if life actually brings other solutions. We've seen the law implemented, we've seen certain shortcomings. Now let's change that. Well, it seems to me to me that everyone who's been arguing here today, who's been arguing that they can agree that there really are improvements. If we were talking about too many parallel textbooks, so we were looking for some models, based on the first debate, today's debate, all of what we had the opportunity to hear, we said let it be a smaller number. How long will it be? Let them be 3 first placed and 3 be their kind of competition so that they actually have someone in reserve that will contribute to not aligning and that textbooks are better quality. Well, it's definitely a shift. There won't be as many of them as there were. Furthermore, we also talked about pulling the textbooks. We installed it in one more precise way. Here, let me just compare that part. Article 17 of the Old Law, in fact, says the solution to withdrawing textbooks from use by the minister. The decision referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall contain an explanation of the clear proposals which have been determined to adopt a solution. Of course, the publisher could have asked for it, but here's what was said. In the new solution in Article 17 when we talk about the withdrawal of textbooks, we say the textbook can be withdrawn from use if it is not in line with the curriculum and program. If the joint written statement requires the author and the publisher. Where it is found that there are incorrect and outdated data in the textbook which have a significant impact on the credibility of the content and which refer the student to the wrong conclusions or make it difficult to obtain knowledge. Where it is established that the published textbook is not identical to the one selected by the ministry in accordance with Article 6(5) of subparagraph 4 on the withdrawal of textbooks from use in the case and as referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, the Minister shall, on a proposal from the Expert Committee, appoint a new expert committee in the case referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. So we've defined better, more precise, clearer, and we're aware of the fact that we have textbooks that really have outdated data, so now we're saying that after 5 years we have a doubling of knowledge, so we're certainly talking about improvement. Let me also say a few words about a conflict of interest. If you remember in the existing law we have expert committees that could have been in conflict of interest, in 2004, we in 2004, when we came to this ministry, we gave one statement to every member of the expert commission to sign it that it was not in conflict of interest, it morally bound him, but legally did not. Now we've been going with it to build it into the law, make it legally binding. So not only the expert committees, but also when it comes to authorship. So let me say, if we're talking about the quality of the textbook, if I work at the Ministry and I wrote a bad textbook that textbook might have been chosen because I'm in some kind of function, because I'm going to go to school, so it's going to be pretty much represented. So that's how a textbook that's worse and that could have been more unquality in our schools. Whether it's an employee, an advisor from the Department of Education, from the Professional Education Agency, or from this ministry, it's all the same, but that way he could have entered. These solutions will not allow it with this supplement we have heard from Mrs Adlesic can also be a national centre for external evaluation and education and, of course, it is very important. So we have solutions that are indisputablely better, so I can't understand that it wants to be so minorized, it turns out that the existing law is a better solution than what we're offering right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60227	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Željko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60228	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, you've been talking about everything I haven't talked about in answer. My proposal also goes to improve this Law, I am not against these solutions, but as you will explain, I quote, "The Minister can approve the use of textbooks that are not issued in the procedure prescribed by this Law." How can the minister act against the law that he signed? That was my question. It was my second question.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60229	My colleague Pacek, these are not the questions you're referring to the secretary of state, but you've applied for a correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60230	Yes, but Mr. Secretary of State was saying... You understand? [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] So, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60231	I understand, you just need to say what is an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60232	Yeah, but how am I supposed to react now? You give him the right to say what I didn't say and comment on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60233	Don't, so come on, correcting an incorrect quote, we know what it is. Honorable representative Jozo Radoš, the same correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60234	Mr. Secretary of State said that national exams, and then that means the state's graduation has nothing to do with the Croatian national educational standard. So it can't be a quality state graduation or be a quality national exam that's being prepared for national graduation if you don't have a Croatian national educational standard. The sooner we adopt the Croatian national educational standard, the easier it will be to work on the national centre for the external evaluation of education, and that will be clearer for students as expected at the national graduation. Those two things are necessary in a relationship. I understand that it had to move before we adopted the Croatian national educational standard, but the later we adopt it, the harder we will bring the students and the national centre for the external evaluation of education. Those things have a lot to do with anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60235	And the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60236	The secretary of state says we're gonna need about five hundred experts and we're going to... competitions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You're not going. You went so far because you had to go because it was a legal obligation. Now you've thrown out that caller's obligation and the law. It's only two options.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60237	And what is an incorrect quote?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60238	It's an incorrect quote... It's not going to be President... [[/The speaker's off, you don't understand.]] [[/The speaker's off, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60239	Correction of an incorrect allegation, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60240	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60241	So the correction of the incorrect claim also states in the Rules of Procedure that the representative is obliged to immediately state which claim is corrected, which makes it correct and in accordance with this and...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60242	Let's take it easy, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60243	Now, let's go slowly school, I hope you understand, I guess, I was speaking in a very simple dictionary and I hope you understand and understand. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60244	And I hope you understand this when the Secretary of State says we're going to need 500 experts and we're going to call contests, it's incorrect because it's just the obligation to call out of the law. She was there by now, and now she's gone. Therefore, the ministry does not go to invitations, but goes to the minister's volunteer decision. Do you understand?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60245	You know what, fellow Stazic? I get it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60246	It's not when you said...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60247	But you need to be made clear because you don't understand, you don't understand, or pretend that you don't understand what's obviously the correct expression to pretend you don't understand. I'm not gonna say it's either, but you don't understand, do you? The idea of that after. Well, we'll continue at 3 p.m., the esteemed representative of Ruža Tomasic, please be my guest. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing to hold a session and debate on the final proposal for a Law on textbooks for elementary and high school. Honored representative Ruža Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60249	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for this Law was to help parents, students, and teachers. Parents don't have to buy new books every year, especially parents with 3, 4 or more children. There's absolutely no reason to change books every year or two, especially not in elementary schools because there's nothing to change about. Croatian, mathematics, English, history, there is really nothing to change about books having to change every two years or a year. The students were also not able to handle it because the children were loaded with so much material that the children were mostly drowsy, especially if they didn’t understand the material, and many children couldn’t understand the material because the material was so much that the teacher had no time to explain the individual material. And we know how much of the knowledge remains if it is quickly and under pressure to learn. The teachers were not able to do the same because teachers, for teachers are under great pressure from both the publishers and the authors, and even from parents because of the abundant and heavy material, and for which teachers are not at all at all guilty. So, the only thing going on was the authors and the publishers. The secretary of state said this morning that textbooks have to change because that's how they achieve quality. First and foremost, if the textbooks are to be accepted if they are of quality. If they're not, then they're not accepted. And if they're quality and they're acceptable then at least those textbooks could take four years. And I wonder if there would be any changes in books if children from 1st to 8th grade or at least from 1st to 4th grade had free books which they should actually have. Because if we care so much about our children, about the rise of birth, or about the relief of parents who are already burdened with various duties, maybe then they should be books, that books are not paid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60250	Thank you. Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain. She's gone, she's losing her word. Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60251	... This bill of law is a modern, short-assembled, precise bill that really impotes with what it wants to solve. [[Specially enabled.]] So far, the Law on elementary and secondary textbooks from 2001 has failed to resolve what seems to be most important to me, and this is precisely what the current Law approving textbooks each year was becoming more and more textbooks for individual classes. So in some teaching classes, usually in primary school classes, the lower classes of such textbooks have 5, 6, 7 so it's very difficult to manage. Namely, also the branch textbooks also in the lower classes, there were cases when it was a beginner 1, 2, 3, the gym, and it was the one where parents often objected to the home budget. In fact, the approval of students under current laws for a certain period of time does not encourage authors or individual publishers to update them, to complete them with other better data, scientific achievements and teaching theory, practice, because many technological inventions dictate precisely these changes. It would also point out very clearly and accurately that this is a conflict of interest in both Articles 5 and 8 where a member of the expert commission is also spoken of, that it is not related to the author, i.e. family or business relationship with any licensed textbook publisher. Also related, it lists exactly which are, marriage, outmarriage, relatives by blood, vertical lineage, adoptor, adoptor, Tassian bond. So that it can really be said systematically and easily, precisely in the provisions states which are the reasons that should contribute to the conflict of interest. Or that he doesn't happen at all. It was this law that put the person responsible with the name and last name first. It's a minister and it's a modern approach. There's been a lot of cover-up for collective bodies, commissions, professions, not professions. Here we know who's responsible, if we're doing anything wrong or who's doing well, if we're doing well. There will be no minister who will decide the expert commission where the scientist, i.e. the expert on the course or area for which the textbook is intended, the teaching course or teaching area methodology. Three practitioners. There will be no minister who will easily eliminate the opinion of the expert council, and it is he who judges and assesses whether the proposal is good or not. The deadlines, too, are very precise on the opinion of the expert commission since it informs the publisher, 90 days from the delivery of the request. Reasons for appeal, reasons for corrections. It is also said very clearly that the approved textbook can also be changed up to 20% with consent, very much what we say and the freedom of choice of teachers where we have often objected because it is the teacher or teacher who will be in use in the classroom in which he teaches. And I agree that these should be more textbooks. Not an exaggerated number because Article 14 says it's one creative choice, the choice of textbooks in schools. It is about a teacher who will then be able to train our students, students, and later scientists in a modern, doactic way. Sharp and appropriate fines. He clearly says what happens if he breaks school, if he violates a responsible person. As this will also reflect on the publisher and this proposal for a law that speaks very clearly in the 24 articles we have done, it is not by chance a committee, the parent committee has agreed unanimously and, therefore, these are also useful at the end of the proposals and opinions given on a bill that the applicant did not adopt. He explained this very clearly and is a very inconclusive claim by some colleagues and colleagues today who spoke at the expense of the calculation of Mr. Minister. It is clearly said in Little Subotica that the school is opening, there are specialists, top-notch experts who have studied the parallel rights in Europe to turn this into a law, and so we had on board a number of questions, but they answered it very clearly, too. Šetić and Mr Janjic, we have not had the opportunity to see the representative, here the third representative, but it is very clear that there have been no questions that have not received a reasoned and reasoned answer. And so it damages exactly one political debate because this is still meant for primary schools, for high schools where all parents are involved. Later when a child goes to college, then we know that we have lost him, what we have learned from him, so the contribution to this debate would also be just one affirmative, one optimistic confirmation of all of what is proposed in this second reading, and therefore this law should be fully accepted as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60252	Thank you. We're going to a five-minute debate. Club of representatives of HSLS, respected representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60253	Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, the Vice-President of the Government, the Honored Ministers of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, just so I don't think it would be a bad idea to hear something from people who even write textbooks, but that's for some age, but the textbook is a textbook anyway. Let's be my colleagues and colleagues so honest with each other and admit that we are not only today but usually in the discussions on textbooks that we have heard and what criteria are required which textbooks should satisfy to be easy, to be cheap, to meet all the pedagogue-datatic standards, that it lasts as long as it takes, but this is going to go on for as long as it takes, that it should certainly be under one other requirement to be modern, to follow all these modern trends, to simply not be passed, we have to admit that it is still in mild contradiction, it's hard for a long time, that something long textbook takes time, and yet these scientific paradigms are now changing something much faster than I don't know they changed 10, 20 or more years ago. There should be as little politics as possible, with as little ideology as possible. If you're reading some serious authors, philosopher, then let's just say I'm thinking... Then he says exactly that one of the most important state ideological apparatus is school and I'm afraid it's impossible to get ideology out of our school system textbook. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's be honest, so let's face it, we've all actually passed a very ideological school. I don't know, in our schools when I went I'm not that old, but I don't know, we knew a lot about all the offensives, but some of the things that happened after those offensives didn't really know that much. Some topics were tabulated, so they were not mentioned in any way. I studied literature, but a whole series of authors were simply skipped and almost not, regardless of their literary values prevailed by one political assessment of their actions. If there were good writers, like Victor Vida, it certainly was who ended up somewhere in Argentina, you really had to go to the national university library to hear about these people and these phenomena, and you got a degree in being a professor of Croatian literature. ... And later the doctor does. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And that, too, we still live in Gutenberg's galaxy, and we also require that textbooks and printing and, like these new technologies, on CDs, and all that's good, but now we ask ourselves how many of these really are the criteria and what's really true about textbooks. Let's try to test one, tell the average parent whether he would agree to have an easy but unquality textbook or have something a little harder, but quality, or to have a cheaper same unquality or slightly more expensive, but there can be no drastic differences otherwise in the price of textbooks or more quality. It certainly doesn't need to be thrown out of that social component either, but it doesn't seem to me that it can be crucial in such serious issues as how we're going to structure the Bookbooks Act. Furthermore, certainly monopolies are not good, so they are not good even when it comes to textbooks, it is not good that you always have the same authors who will never know once, so five times, so ten times, twenty times and more times repeat the editions of your textbooks with almost minor additions, but also even though I belong to a liberal world-son, and sometimes liberalisation can really lead to that so that we have again actually had a problem which also did not necessarily belong to textbooks, and that was that you had a flood of everything and everything and that you actually solved the problems of certain publishers who then led some other games that also with quality and these student standards had nothing to do with it. I agree completely with my colleague Peronja when he says that in some way we would finally have to introduce this into our society that responsibility is fixed and it's really much better to be a minister, a person for those you can name and named him than to hide behind someone... bodies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So how many times have we heard that when a body monitors and decides that when you name it then some individual from that body shows up and says that it has no slight meaning, that he first heard it and that he read it, so that I say everything I think and my colleagues spoke well on purpose of establishing this national standard and all of these things and what really belongs to the teaching criteria that every law must include, and everything that belongs to ideology so I don't know the presence of certain of these.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60254	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, I spoke very discreetly and quietly not to disturb you too much. HDZ club, respected representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60255	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, today, after this whole debate before noon, a lot of different opinions have been expressed. Most clubs and deputies welcomed the proposal's decision to accept most of the remarks made in the first reading. For all those who from the opposition order repeat that there is nothing new in this law yet once again, it is necessary to say that the issue of the disseminating textbooks will be resolved by the teaching standard as a sublegal act, that the closer is defined who brings the teaching standard and this is a very important next step in education solved the issue of conflicts of interest. It is said that those who cannot write textbooks are listed. I'm afraid that because of the inability to work as advisors at the ministry, the office or the professional education agency, counselors for the sake of the cost of publishing and writing students will leave these jobs, I don't think they should be. There is a large part of a teacher who writes good textbooks and perhaps this will also encourage and encourage some to be instructed in writing textbooks. After the first reading debate, improved legal proposals will reduce the number of textbooks per case, introduce a number of order among publishers and authors. In this way, it will remain in use of a more quality textbook that we all stand for. They will retreat with outdated and incorrect facts and there is indeed many of them. The teacher has the right to choose a textbook because he has the right to enter both his individuality and his creativity. I'm surprised at the debate, I don't see Mrs Lugaric here whose debate on the home Board on education, science and culture went quite the other way. So she gave full support to the very ones mentioned and suggested in the first reading of the changes. Part of the colleagues and clubs welcomed the proposal that textbooks can only be issued by a licensed publisher because this means a more quality textbook and opening opportunities to smaller publishers, so those textbooks, as already said here, are in a less publicised statement that they really get a high-quality publisher. I do not agree with some colleagues that the promoter has lost time making a new law because this law has solved exactly what was desired, and conflict of interest and choice of students. So they accepted the very good proposals from the first debate that made this law much better. I will repeat that in my debate that the system of publishing and selling textbooks must contribute to the stability of education and almost everyone has agreed that this law was improved after the first reading. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club will support the bill. Obviously, most colleagues from the opposition side, I must say, there are no major objections to the law but the absence of the minister himself is the only problem of this law and I am sorry that at the end of the morning the debate on this law was more of a policy included in this debate than good suggestions on textbooks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60256	Thank you very much. For the HNS Club, a respected representative of Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60257	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, honourable promoters! Although it is a third change in less than five years, this Law on textbooks respects the most frequent remarks of parents, students and teachers. It finally reduces the number of textbooks per course, and schools will use them for more years, which means that all departments of the same classified school will be used in the same textbook. The result is that students will have fewer total textbooks in schools. So far, school textbooks have changed each year, with social sensitivity at the very least. Up to a dozen titles per case were in place, resulting in a huge number of approved school textbooks, sometimes more than a thousand. The Law on elementary and secondary school textbooks was adopted in 2001, despite complaints particularly from publishers about its changes in 2003, did not intervene further in the basic textbook problem. However, due to the possibility of approving an unlimited number of textbook titles per item, the market was covered. The only filter that passed was the Commission of the Ministry of Science, which approved or rejected every single textbook proposal. Most of the rebuffed ones returned to the production after which such textbooks also received a passing grade at a large percentage in the second round. The result of such a production of textbooks is an increasing number of so-called so-called books. For example, for initial learning, reading, and writing in the first grade of primary school, parallel editions ended in six volumes. Four years ago, a clause was introduced to remove textbooks with less than ten percent of school representation from use. However, as with the textbooks that were returned to completion, such textbooks would be returned to classes after petty cosmetic changes by the following year. In addition to creating an illusion that the new textbooks were actually a decade old books with very often outdated or scientifically unfounded data, it also accumulated their number on the market. This bill has its shortcomings, but what should be commended for is certainly an attempt to calculate with the ageing of the data in the textbooks. The new law stipulates the possibility of withdrawing textbooks from use if it finds that there are incorrect or outdated data which significantly affect the credibility of the content and refer students to the wrong conclusions or make it difficult for them to acquire knowledge. It's the first time in the law. So one of the main objectives of this law is to reduce the total number of textbooks and the modernisation of content is the main motto that should stimulate both authors and the ministry to change. The law also suggests that only those textbooks used over three years for more than 10% of students may remain in use, or if there has been no change or addition by more than 20% compared to content. One of the greatest interests, however, should be the ability for a textbook to use several generations, i.e. to last as long as the curriculum is. Such a trend is also in the countries of the European Union. Knowledge in mathematics and physics does not change so often that new textbooks have to come out each year. This law is nominally going in that trend. In September 2006, national educational standards are planned to be introduced into all primary schools. Since time is running out, I would perhaps just one more part of my debate that is not other than my colleague, Ruža Tomasic, pointed out what she would like to pray for to go to is to ask the question of free textbooks. I believe that in this country there is a very irregular relationship between a local community because, of course, education is left to local self-government units according to the problem of education. It is not right that the strongest unit of local self-government, which is the City of Zagreb, provides free textbooks for its citizens while at the same time on Chukuram in Banija, I look towards my colleague Pupovac, so in the poorest end people do not have free textbooks and students are not available, knowledge is not evenly available to all Croatian citizens. I think it's incorrect, I think it's primarily a social factor that needs to be put in there. I'm glad Mrs. Kosor is here to hear that. So, according to one social censorship, the citizens and children of the Croatian state have more equal access to knowledge. This is what we strive for and what we fight for in the Croatian People's Party. The Croatian People's Party will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60258	Thank you very much. State Secretary Želimir Janjic. Additional explanation, final review. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60259	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to thank you all for participating in the debate and have contributed to our discussions to making the best possible solutions in the final draft of the law. We are equally grateful to all those who have submitted amendments that will further improve the solutions of this law that we will consider and be manifested to them tomorrow. Let me briefly refer to a part of the debate they discussed about education in general, seeing among other things that education has been neglected and that something special is not being done. So, in addition to one of the opposite arguments, let me remind you. The development plan for the education and education system was adopted in 2005 to 2010. It is followed by the World Bank with EUR 67.8 million and the funds have been active since 15 March this year. Further experimentally goes to the Croatian national educational standard in 49 schools in this school year, and since the next school year goes to all primary schools. We're introducing an external evaluation of education. The National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education as an institution is founded and begins therefore with the national graduation and national exams. Information about this went to all of you and you yourself could see on the websites so state graduation as a segment of the external evaluation of education and now as a segment of the external evaluation of education national exam and just today a printed guide that will be sent to all first-class high school students to begin with. And next year, all the students of four-year vocational schools. This academic year began the implementation of the "Bolonski" process. Let's take it one step further. The Agency for the Quality of Higher Education has been established and is now solely working on it. It's one part of the jobs that we started in this mandate at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and we still have enough jobs ahead of us. We believe that we have really made an important step and therefore we are pleased that and when it comes to this law that is important for the system of education, that the parent committee unanimously supported the final draft law on textbooks for primary and secondary schools. We are proud of this consensus but also of the consensus that is being achieved in the professional public because we have hired a lot of external associates, top experts specifically in the Croatian national educational standard of over 6 hundred experts, for the state's 200. Speaking of textbooks, we said that we have over five hundred members of expert groups who evaluate textbooks. So we're talking about expertise, and we're not talking about party membership. We are also pleased that the European Union's Publishers Association has also assessed that this law is compatible with European laws in those countries that have the Law on textbooks. The law therefore will briefly repeat only reducing the number of parallel textbooks but encourages competition and actually affects the way to better textbooks. The minister recently spoke of this issue among other things and said that there is no law which will therefore, as the only measure, be able to facilitate student bags but will in fact do the best to build new school facilities that will enable work on one shift, a day-long stay and the possibility of leaving textbooks at the school itself and solving all possible tasks. For these reasons, tomorrow our minister will have a meeting with the founders of so-called Croatian Government mayors, where he will present a new model of education and try not to work any more in the coming years in the four or five shifts we have in the Sesvets or in the 3 shifts, but to start maximum in two shifts with one intensification to be in one shift. Then we'll definitely make it easier for the student bags, and we'll probably never talk about it again. I must mention, it is immodest that when it comes to the European Ministers of Education Conference in Vienna, it is mentioned that Croatia is the leader in this part of Europe when it comes to changes in education. Finally, I regret that when it was debated today that a few were moving away from the topic, the question of the non-presence of Minister Primorac to this debate today. But let me remind you today, Minister Primorac was in Mali Subotica where a school facility and a sports hall are opened, and that is a school that has 40% of the Roma population, so just as it may have been spoken here in the Croatian Parliament why it is not there, if he hadn't gone there, he would probably have been named if there were no sensitivity for minority problems and we just want to show the opposite. That's why Minister Primorac wasn't at this debate today. And let us believe that colleague Šetić, me and colleague Oršolić can explain everything that is explained by this law. Once again, thank you very much for all the debates, thank you for all the amendments you have submitted. I hope in high agreement tomorrow we can pass a law on basic and high school textbooks that must be better than what we've got right now. Thank you very much. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60260	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We are going to vote on the final proposal of the Law on textbooks for primary and secondary schools. There's a list, we have seven amendments. State Secretary Nevio Šetić. Amendment number one, MP club of HSLS.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60262	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60263	The government accepts, becomes an integral part. Just a little louder, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60264	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60265	Okay. It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 2 also belongs to the Club of Representatives of HSLS.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60266	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60267	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. 3. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60268	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60269	It's becoming an integral part. 4 of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60270	Government accepts amendment
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60271	It becomes an integral part of the law. 5, HSS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60272	The government does not accept the amendment in view of the lack of textbooks for a large number of courses in vocational education, the lack of the most extensive part of the textbooks for students with special needs, one part for students of national minorities and for the needs of additional teaching for children of Croatian citizens abroad who for certain reasons are not interesting to publishers, and are necessary for the needs of teachers and teachers and their students. This Article allows the Minister, on a proposal from expert committees, to approve textbooks continuously throughout the year, in accordance with Article 13 of this Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60273	Please, who on behalf of the amendment promoter? Dear Representative Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60274	Thank you very much. I don't really know what you read in our amendment. We said the minister shouldn't be making regulations that are against this law, so it says right now that he can pass regulations on textbooks, and you've explained to me what is not in the amendment. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60275	Please vote. Let's get on with it. The result? 29 for, 5 abstentions, 68 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Sixth Amendment of Representative Furi Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60276	The government doesn't accept the amendment. In the final proposal of the Law on textbooks for elementary and secondary schools, the Government of the Republic of Croatia accepted the proposal of most club representatives to choose textbooks to be used in the classroom in which the teacher teaches. We believe that such a provision applies to all teachers and teachers in the Croatian school system applies to teachers and teachers teaching in the language and letter of the national minority and is in line with the provisions of the Law on Education and Education in the language and letter of national minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60277	Representative Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60278	This is a provision, it should be clear, it was part of the law so far. What is not there is a step back in applying positive discrimination in minorities, let it remain recorded. Thank you. Let him vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60279	Please vote. The result? 29 for, 2 abstentions, 62 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. And the 7th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the HSP.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60280	The government doesn't accept the amendment. Article 15 of this Act opens a competition match between authors and publishers so that only the best and best-quality textbooks can be used in primary and secondary schools. We think two years is enough for...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60281	If I may, I'd like the honourable MPs and the MPs to step up the marble even more so as to make it sound weaker. Please, please, I appeal that the bigger the jam be.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60282	Thank you, Mr. President. We believe that 2 years is enough to improve newly approved textbooks that have failed to be imposed in the first 2 years of school use. Just one more. We have, now we will have under this Law 3 textbooks in use and 3 others who will try to enter his place for the next 2 years. If they fail, they fall off so we stay on those 3. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60283	Who's going on behalf of the club? Dear Representative Pejo Trčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60284	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Oh, Mr. Secretary of State, your explanation would be better than that why you're your proposal. Because I put this as your proposal in the first reading, so your explanation would have been far better if you'd explained why you pulled that off. In fact, it would be good to be 4 years old because the current Law states that the minister, or expert commission of the ministry, can, no matter how long the books lasted, or textbook from, withdraw that textbook if any changes were made. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60285	Please, let's get on with it. There's a vote to vote on. The result? 22 for, 10 abstentions, 65 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you very much. I am now voting on the final proposal of the Law on textbooks for elementary and high school. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 75 votes for, 16 abstentions and 12 against. The proposed Law was adopted in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, I am voting on the next conclusion. The Minister shall be responsible for the tasks of education prior to the adoption of the training standard referred to in Article 2(5). The law on textbooks for primary and secondary schools will refer the proposal to the opinion of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament. Secretary of State, come in. It's obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60286	We accept this conclusion and think it is useful because it is such an important document, and here in the Croatian Parliament there are people who can see if it is adequate. Therefore, we will agree to that opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60287	Thank you. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote for that proposal conclusion. The result? With 87 votes for, six abstentions and two against. The proposed conclusion has been reached. We go to the following point: - Report on the search for prisoners and missing persons, from 1 January 2004 to 1 March 2006; Report submitted by the Government. The debate was conducted by the Committee on War Veterans and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. I would like an additional explanation to the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of the Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60289	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable Madam Representatives and Gentlemen Representatives. Here is the report on the search for prisoners and missing persons, in the reporting period as reported in this report, so from the beginning of 2004 to today. Since that's the case, I'd like to start by saying the latest data on the number of prisoners and missing persons. So, the report says, when it comes to those on the '91 list. Whose requests were restored in '94. It's about a thousand and 140 people. In the meantime, since the report was submitted, one person is less, so one thousand 149. And here is also the latest news, which is of course related to this problem, which the report says has just begun to test excavations in the area of Vukovar-Srijem and Osijek-Baranja County. We've been waiting for a better day to get some indication, some information to start the test digs. Test excavations will also be carried out in the area of probably two more counties, so I believe that we will soon have new information in this exhaustive process of searching for information, i.e. the search for persons on the list of prisoners and missing. As far as the Government of the Republic of Croatia is concerned, this is a priority, humanitarian, but not just a humanitarian issue. For us it is still a problem for the families of the prisoners and the missing. The biggest humanitarian problem because it is quite certain that the greatest pain and the greatest burden on the families they are still looking for. Especially those who have been asking since '91. Because the most terrible thing for a father, for a mother, for children to seek the truth about a father, about a son, about a brother, not knowing all these years, or of course about a wife, about a daughter, about a child, about the nearest, not knowing that truth. And what's scariest, living in suspense and what's just as terrible not knowing when those sufferings are over. What is also the phenomenon we are facing is that unfortunately many, especially parents, mothers and fathers of those we are looking for together all these years are getting sick and unfortunately and dying, and the truth about their loved ones has not been welcomed. Therefore, as far as the Government of the Republic of Croatia is concerned, I repeat the priority issue and, of course, that the Government is trying to intensify the process of seeking prisoners and missing in every way possible. That is why the Government of the Republic of Croatia founded and established the Committee for Prisoners and Missing last year. So today, the process is being handled by the Department of Detained and Missing in the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity and the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, who, of course, has the power to negotiate with the same commission, or the Commission of the Government of Serbia-Montenegro. We are also in the budget for this year, you respected MPs and respected MPs know that that process and exhumation based on possible new sites of mass or individual tombs would continue without obstacles and that, of course, in order to continue the identification process, we would provide an additional 2 million kuna for those purposes only, so in the budget for this year. So the figures are with this thousand 149 that I mentioned, another 142 places of mass and a thousand 200 places of individual tombs. Since the beginning of the search, since the beginning of the aggression on the Republic of Croatia, there has been a list of 18 thousand people to this day when the figure is 139. In the meantime, you know yourself, there's been 7 grand and 600 people exchanged mostly defenders. I do not have to mention in particular that many of the defenders who were on the list of prisoners and missing, of course, passed concentration camps, i.e. the most severe torture and torture. What I would especially like to warn about at this point where the process of searching is particularly insisting on by the Government of the Republic of Croatia through bodies, so through the Administration for Detained and Missing and Through the Commission. It's getting the necessary information from those who have the information. That's why I would take advantage of this opportunity and here in front of you MPs believing that some of the media will pass on the words and the number that exists in our ministry, it's been there for several years, but it needs to be re-affirmed again. This is a number that can secretly report any information that I repeat about the place or individual or mass grave or other information that may be useful in this search process may be said. That's number 062/111-11. So 062 and 6 units. On the basis of all the notifications received either by telephone or by letters or through associations, you know that we work well with associations and Croatian defenders and civilians who also of course try to get different information. Or other ways. All information is taken extremely seriously. Every piece of information is being checked. And I can tell you that last year, based on this information, we did 126 test digs. 126 test digs only in one year. Unfortunately, the results weren't what we expected. You yourself know what it means to go to a test dig. This means to drag the machinery, people who on the ground under very difficult conditions very often do their job. And then at the end when the result is zero, or nothing of course that we're all kind of frustrated. But not defiled. So the test digs continue. I.D.'s continuing. And I would now like to tell you ladies and gentlemen a few more words about what has happened in the reporting period, so since the beginning of 2004, which we think can contribute to the improvement of this process, because it is certainly the end of this whole painful and painful process that is the only guarantee for full peace and in these families for the return of people and exiles and refugees for course and normalisation of relations with neighbours, but also for proving the war crimes committed and of course the prosecution of perpetrators. So our basics are today, and tomorrow, there will be a continuation of talks and negotiations with Serbia-Montenegro. I must say that this problem has really been raised to the highest level that the Prime Minister Dr Sanader has discussed the issue as a zero issue of talks with President Kostunica in the last talks, but also in all the talks before that, that I had the opportunity to discuss this with Mr Kostunica when he was in Zagreb, also with Minister Ljajic and what we have certainly agreed on is that every family has a right to the truth, that this truth must be found, that every person who is in the list of prisoners and missing must be found, that we must make every effort to be found, decently buried in order for the families to end here and this process, a painful and painful process of mourning, and, of course, to finally have a place to repeat all the families, a place where candles can be lit and bring flowers and, of course, to pray. It is also one of the guidelines for continuing the search for detainees and missing persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I've already said an intensification of the exhumation and identification process. Co-operation with international organisations and follow-up of course with organizations that are also wanted, i.e. with associations of imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders and civilians. As for cooperation with international organisations, I must say that it was more than good, that here we have received in a certain way and recognition by the fact that the Office of the International Red Cross in Zagreb is likely to close in June. The International Red Cross has, of course, been actively involved all these years in the whole process of seeking and acknowledging both the government and the office, i.e. the Ministry of Detained and Missing, is that they will hand over the documentation and everything they have, which is related to the search process to us, i.e. the Croatian Red Cross. So when this little office closing ceremony is over, then we will take over and the documents are arranged at a meeting in Zagreb. Also when I mention cooperation with the International Red Cross, then I must say that we have also done one big job among others, which is a list of missing persons for whom the data has been collected on the initiative of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, the Administration for Detained and Missing Based Bilateral Talks with Serbia-Montenegro, and in cooperation with the International Committee of the Red Cross and on this list is 915 persons. What we were looking for in the last talks with representatives of Serbia-Montenegro, i.e. with their commission that was negotiated, or discussed with representatives of the government of the Republic of Croatia which was founded last year, in which representatives of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of the Croatian Defence, some other state institutions, as well as intelligence services that we believe can improve this job, it was agreed, that is, at that meeting, we asked first of all that the followers of the former Yugoslav Army who have information on the relocation of mass graves in pre-occupied areas, and delivery data. You know that some mass graves after the Storm, so 95, 96 even moved. Such a case has been recorded, for example, with a mass grave in the Tordins that has been moved, situated under cover of the night, so it is very difficult to trace the remains of the dead today, which are apparently being moved to several places. So we're asking the Yugoslav Army to have that information delivered to us. Also data from the place where the remains of people who were in camps, or prisons like Stajic, Begeci, Nis, are buried, so they have that information and I believe they will deliver it to us. And anyway here a few days ago, just based on these conversations, it's the same data that doesn't stand in the report, because it's a job that was done later, we got the remains of six people and of course there's an intensive, i.e. work intensively on identification. In the reporting period, therefore, five new mass graves have been found in these two years. Then we gathered and checked the findings of 215 places of mass and individual tombs. That's what I told you earlier, so every piece of information is taken seriously, extremely seriously, it's going to be checked, that we have this personal cooperation with the associations, and no information that has come to our ministry, or government, or the Department of Detained and Missing, has passed without being checked and that it was not, or was not, it was not. At these locations, therefore, five of which form mass graves in the organization of our ministry, i.e. the Department of Detained and Missing, were exhumed during the reporting period, the remains of 144 persons were exhumed. I must also say that here we are in the reporting period, that two meetings were held during the reporting period with representatives of the commission, i.e. representatives of Serbia-Montenegro. That 277 persons were positively identified in the organisation and coordination of our ministry, i.e. the Department of Detained and Missing. When we talk about identification, then I must say that the identification in Croatia is the person who is missing and who finds true identification by the rules, or criteria, of the highest criteria known in the world. And that our identification model is already recognized and recognized in the world as so-called. Croatian identification model. In fact, our experts are called upon in crisis situations when accidents occur to participate in identifications and to help where it is really very complicated to identify persons in view of the degree of destruction of remains. Identifications are extremely sensitive moments, you know that these are moments when families finally come to the truth after all these years. It is always difficult to accept, it is always painful especially when families, fathers and mothers who are already in advanced age doctors present a piece of paper on which something is written. It says that based on the analysis of their blood and the remains found, here's science confirms that it's 99.999 percent evident their son, their daughter, or some of the closest families. Of course, there goes the search for those little things that have been found, those clothes, shoes, belts, earrings, a piece of jewelry, and I have to say that these are really the most shaken moments in the whole process. Because I can even say that many are extremely difficult, no matter what science has said, what all this data has said, to accept the truth that this is finally the end and that their son or their daughter or their father or mother definitely doesn't have, that hope definitely died. Therefore, here, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I suggest you support this report, to support and here are all our efforts, the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to address this big problem as soon as possible. To support and here are the suggestions that we made in this report. I believe you've read the report. It's really detailed, comprehensive with a lot of numbers, with a lot of data that, of course, when you read them like this might not mean much. But you know, we know well that behind every such number is actually a family, there are human fates, and that's how we have to think and talk, here, when we talk about this report. Thank you again for your attention. I tried really to shorten it because the data is extremely large and once again I ask you to accept the report on the search for prisoners and missing persons in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60290	Thank you. The committees? The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. Rapporteur of the Committee, Honorable Representative Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60291	Mr. President, I will report on the views and conclusions of this issue of the Committee on Human Rights and Minority Rights, the rights of national minorities. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities held a debate yesterday at its 38th session on the report on the search for prisoners and missing persons during this period, as stated in the Report. The Committee held this debate as an interested working body. In the debate, members of the Committee gave full support to the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's further work on prisoners and missing persons to end an extremely difficult and responsible job of finding all missing persons and to ensure that all the victims found are properly buried. In particular, they stressed that the submission of this Report is a presumption of further building tolerance in society, and that it is necessary to deal with the proportions of war casualties in order not to result in incorrect delivery and manipulation of the number of victims, i.e. not to leave unexplained relationships for the next generations. In this respect, it is important for the data to be accurate and professionally presented, and that it is therefore necessary to have the exact number of exhumed, identified and buried persons, regardless of what nationality they are and where the place of their death is located. In particular, the importance of speeding up the process of identification so that each family knows what happened to their loved ones and ends long - term search and uncertainty. It is therefore supported that interstate cooperation, interstate cooperation and cooperation with all relevant international institutions in order to create a single database and speed up the process of identifying exhumed persons. It has also been warned that families missing in many cases suffer severe legal consequences for not declaring the dead person they have been looking for for for more than 10 years, thus bringing them into a very difficult situation because they are unable to address the many status problems in which they are faced. It is also pointed out that in the process of exhumation of persons there is a great deal to be done, and this supported the upcoming free phone initiative through which there would be any information on missing persons, i.e. missing persons, places of their death and burial or the existence of possible mass graves. Since a large number of missing persons are still missing in certain counties of which are the highest number of civilian victims, it is necessary to create an appropriate climate in order to include a number of returnees in those areas if they have any important data. It has also been requested to take care of missing persons from urban areas who, according to some data, are not a small number, and their requests have not been processed properly or at least so far. The solution to this problem has been highlighted in the debate, it is also extremely important for the establishment of toleranceal relations in the environments in which a large number of missing persons are missing. It is noted that where these problems have been resolved and relations between the local population have been improved, and that the reconciliation process is being successfully implemented. After this debate, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament that a report on the search for prisoners and missing persons be adopted between 1 January 2004 and 1 March 2006 should be reached. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60292	Thank you very much, colleague. We're on our way to a club debate. The first registered representative, Milorad Pupovac, is on behalf of the SDSS club. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60293	Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Vice-President of the Government, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We at the SDSS Club welcome this report by the Government for a long time on the search for prisoners and missing persons, we welcome it because in this two-year period it has been done much to reduce the unknowns around those wanted as missing, so on an increased number of exhumations and an increased number of identification of exhumed persons. At the same time, we welcome him because for the first time in this report since the functioning of the competent state body, today we have intergenerational solidarity between the Ministry of Family, Defence and Family Solidarity, and based on the agreements reached between the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia, the competent authorities of the Government of Serbia and Montenegro have included not only figures but also data on those who disappeared during the war period of '95. the year, which are citizens of the Republic of Croatia mainly of Serbian nationality and on the basis of the same agreement by persons who are not citizens of the Republic of Croatia, who are owned or maintained by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thanks to this form of cooperation, thanks to the co-operation between our Government and the International Red Cross, the exchange of data in this regard has brought us closer today to the state we wanted for a long time, which is that although we still have not a full list of wanted and missing persons, but that we have a common list of persons and that it is precisely that all victims in the Republic of Croatia are independent of their suffering, especially when it comes to civilian victims getting that status, they receive adequate treatment both in terms of recognition as victims and in terms of posthumous treatment, means funerals and all of the necessary and necessary gestures of the pitets that family members or other relatives or communities may show in this regard. What I would like to say here even now, given the interest of debate on this topic, shows that our society has in this respect a different kind of relationship than it was not only during the years of war, but also during five, six or more years of war in which the relationship with the prisoners and the missing rarely appeared as the one that limited relations for the creation of tolerance, for the creation of real, social and political relations in our society. Today's circumstances are different in this respect, it shows that there are still many things that we need to do in this regard, there are many more whose identity needs to be determined, there are many others whose remains need to be exhumed and there are, of course, many more environments that need to be helped to overcome war traumas, to face sufferings and in particular, which is particularly important what the words here have been about, there are many other secrets that may be carried out, the knowledge they need to share with the competent authorities and their neighbours or those who need it most, and that is if they know where the remains or if there are indications where these remains might be to be by means of this phone or some other way to inform them that the whole process should be accelerated and that the practice that we have all these years of having had leftovers or that the number of victims on the Serbian side is not really happening. In this sense this is a significant step forward, a significant step forward that among those who are victims cannot be discrimination. That's how it was in some of the old days after '45. For example, years We would not be dealing with the work that we do today because some honest people in this House are trying to do the jobs that probably someone should have done before, and we should not then reach out to the mechanisms that they have reached out to during these years. In other words, what happened would not happen, which is that just the victims, the victims who are unrecognized, are the cause of new debates, new conflicts, new hatreds and new divisions. I think that today's Croatia is just being directed in that it does not happen to her in the future, that everything that has brought the 20th century as trouble and misfortune not only leaves behind, but that with it in an adequate way, honestly, professionally, congratulatingly and ethically and facing and meeting. In that sense, I would suggest Madam Vice-President, Mr. Prime Minister, a few things about future reporting or working directly ahead in this business. The first thing is to further step up cooperation with the international organisations present, but at the same time to step up cooperation with neighbouring countries with Bosnia and Herzegovina and to the extent that the available circumstances allow it to do so in any of those elements where this cooperation is possible from exchanges of information to of course assistance with regard to identification procedures and to allow people to participate in identification because we should not forget that we still have nearly 2.5 thousand persons whose identification needs to be made. It should not be forgotten that we still have 2.5 thousand missing persons. The government is looking for about a thousand and 140 people who are presumed to be a high percentage of 80-90% of Croatian people and on the other hand we have 915 persons plus 440 persons, 915 victims from the 1995 wartime, 440 persons who were provided in the census by the Serbian government. It's somewhere around 2,000 and 500 people in total that we have as a task to solve right now. In this sense, I think that it is also necessary to develop adequate cooperation with existing associations both together with the whole, especially the segments of local self-government where the Serbian community is significantly represented so that it can also be a partner in the overall process not only because of its potential interests where there are reasons and there are reasons for this, but at the same time that the whole process could be effectively and as quickly as possible brought to an end, and that the degree of mutual trust that we are building in some other aspects of social and political life could also be achieved in this segment. Because one who is unable to face facts about the circumstances of someone’s death, murder, or mass murder must surely have limitations on the overall other elements of trust that are being built in society. And that is why I call on you and ask that in these things we be open and in the next report to be places and for those who, in the name of the association on the Serbian side, will be able to contribute as the associations on the Croatian side do, contribute to bringing this process to an end and to speed up. The other thing I would like to say is that what is mentioned in this brief report of the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of the National Communities, or minorities, is the question of people who disappeared in the 1991-1992 war period in urban areas whose figures, unfortunately, we still do not know in the right sense of that word. We know that public talks are held, public polemics, sometimes not with a particularly honorable language regarding Osijek from time to time is talked about Sisak, occasionally talking about Karlovac, about some other environments and we know that there are some cases in Zagreb. We need to help these families, Madam Vice Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, unless we have any leads on that these persons are alive somewhere, that their suffering is also being covered, that at least these persons are dead and that, preferably, more effective search mechanisms also come up with their remains, and everything else, of course, must then be in the jurisdiction of the police or other investigative authorities dealing with criminal responsibility for such possible cases. What I'd like to say in the end is better say what I already said. This is exactly the kind of policy where there will be no discrimination among the particularly civilian victims of war, precisely by calling on local communities, all ethnic communities in this case in particular to invite members of the Serbian community especially where this is very sensitive and most sensitive such as the Vukovar area, for example, to actively engage and help resolve this as I would also like to call on the government to create more space within their capabilities for active engagement on their part and their active participation in this important business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60294	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, colleague Damir Cain. Here you go, fellow representative!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60295	Dear Madam Vice President, the esteemed Vice President of the Government, the distinguished gentlemen of the House of Representatives! Well, I agree with all those who say or claim that this is certainly one of the most ungrateful jobs that can be entrusted to a person in the executive power. This morning I said you have to convince your mother that everything is not lost and her child hasn't been reported for fourteen or fifteen years. The work here is well described here on page 1 of the collection, processing, keeping complete records of persons who were imprisoned in enemy camps during the Homeland War, of all prisoners, missing persons in the Homeland War, exhumed identified and unidentified remains from mass and individual tombs and now not to list any further. It is fortunate that the political relations that Mrs Kosor spoke of between Croatia and Serbia in some way have been normalised, that these relations are correct at this time and that dialogue is so necessary and necessary between one country and another. We see requirements going both ways towards Belgrade and Belgrade towards Zagreb. On page 4, it is said literally that the list of missing persons whose families launched the search procedure at the Ministry of Family and Defence or the Department of Detained and Missing 1140. A list of missing persons for whom data were collected on the initiative of the competent ministry and the basis of bilateral agreements between Serbia, Montenegro and BiH, and in cooperation with the International Committee of the Red Cross 915, while the Council of Ministers' Commission of Serbia-Montenegro provided a list of missing persons for whom the search procedure was launched by the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro for Missing Persons in issue of 440. On these issues, which means "par exellance" humanitarian issues must not be politicized. So on these issues, which are, as I said, absolutely impartial or supra-party and so on, I dare say, overpolitically, there must be full co-operation between countries. We see that there is also talk with Bosnia and Herzegovina. Croatia is still missing I would say the answer to the fate of 68 people who have disappeared in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Clearly, there is not enough to talk to only Sarajevo. I'm sure there's a need to talk to Banja Luka here. What is equally necessary is to take care of the families of missing or imprisoned persons. These are families that are certainly one of the greatest victims of war. What is the tragedy of the general story and the fact that in the Republic of Croatia is exhumed, exhumed pardon 3568 of which 2981 has been identified and on their sacrifice we have to be grateful to them. It must be a warning clearly that one war tragedy, that evil no longer happens again. I am particularly pleased that Minister Kosor spoke so sincerely about this list of missing persons and the success where, in the meantime, from reporting to today, it happened that one person was identified. So it's no more 1140 than 1139. This little step is actually huge to say success for the Ministry and unfortunately even a big gain for the family if nothing else is going to happen because he knows where he's going to pass the candle the next day. To end what to say to the valley that people who behave such an ungrateful job will continue to work, that any government does not create obstacles to families who search for their children, whether the request, as I said, leaves the way of Belgrade, Sarajevo, Banja Luka, or that it is the other way around. In 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994, it will never happen again. We're clearly on each other today. The state borders know where they are. We won't fight anymore. It will no longer reach for this territory and it is time for us to leave some and political moments to the economy that will move away to play a more dominant and dominant role in solving the remaining of these open ones I dare say both Croatian-Serbian and Croatian-Bosnian relations. To end the sincere admiration of all the victims and what may be most interesting is this table on page 12. For example, from 1 January 2004 to 1 March 2006, in the structure of solved cases in the reporting period, this should literally be quoted as saying that ten people were found alive in free areas of the Republic of Croatia or in third countries. So 10 and living persons were found and precisely because of these mothers, their fathers, because of these ten people, because of the hope that families and other victims have afterwards, I am asking the Ministry to persist in their work. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60296	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Club, colleague Ivica Pancic. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60297	Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Prime Minister, Mr Grujic, ladies and gentlemen. Recently after this speaker during the debate on the report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers, I said that at least once a year here in the Croatian Parliament should discuss the problem of finding prisoners and missing Croatian defenders and civilians. So it is good that today this report on the search for prisoners and missing persons shows what the Government of the Republic of Croatia has done over the past two years and three months in this extremely important field. I believe that from now on, it means not only in this call the representatives of the Croatian Parliament will have regular annual reports in front of them at the beginning of the year on the search for the prisoners and the missing. Because we will agree for sure that this is one of the most important humanitarian issues in the Republic of Croatia and certainly the most painful issue. Many families of Croatian defenders and civilian victims are still waiting for the truth about their loved ones. And today, when we discuss this subject, we need to know that behind every number mentioned in this report there are several tragic human fates. As we discuss here today, let us be at least a little in the mind of those who have spent many years with those families that the news, the news of their missing sons, their fathers, are still waiting for their spouses. Let us assure them that the Croatian state is ready to do everything possible to ease this suffering and pain. For this reason, I believe that this problem should be debated in a balanced and reasoned manner, and I believe that everything that is said and everything that will be said will be best said in order to ultimately speed up this process of finding the missing Croatian defenders and civilians of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It should be pointed out that a lot has been done so far and I am using the opportunity to thank Mr Grujic and his associates for their dedicated relationship with the work they are doing and who will have to continue to do because the huge work is still ahead of us, what the figures are already talking about and here are another 2 thousand to 2 thousand 500 people to be found. This report must be highlighted as a whole, because for the first time it unites all missing persons from the territory of the Republic of Croatia and it may be a surprise for some, but I don't think there's any need to talk about it anymore. We believe that it also states in the report that with this premonition of data, the manipulation of the number of victims by certain associations and officials from Serbia will cease, because the Government of the Republic of Croatia has said that it has assumed the obligation to resolve the fate of the missing citizens of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of their origin, nationality, religion or any other belonging. And there, thanks to a series of external circumstances, this government has made an important step, and that should be pointed out. According to the report, a large part of the government's activities have been devoted to negotiations and agreements with Serbia-Montenegro where the issue of prisoners and missing has also been one on the precondition for normalisation of relations between the two countries. Certain results of this cooperation have been achieved. Some are still expected. It'll probably come next. Let's just be realistic. Most of the work will have to be done on our own, and therefore we need to prepare ourselves further and remove existing weaknesses. Weaknesses that are visible in this report, or were tried to reduce them. The report shows that 215 possible sites of mass and individual tombs have been checked and that the remains of 144 persons have been found at 57 locations. So, in every fourth. It would certainly be interesting to hear the assessment and applied call these strategies in action. Because it's clear that she has both her positive and her negative sides. It seems unambiguous to me that we can't value it. Another problem that remains is the question of the identification of postmortem remains, according to 587 people buried and common graves in Zagreb, Mirogoj and Osijek. At 3 or 4 years old, it was also a big problem. However, then on questions on how to speed up the process of identification through the method of DNA analysis as the only possible method, it was said that by equipping the Institute for Judicial Medicine in Zagreb, and by putting in place a centre in Osijek and Split, the whole process will be significantly accelerated. There have also been some suggestions on seeking help from abroad, but it has been said that this is not necessary. Today in this report, we can read that the main problem for such a slow identification process is that there are no blood samples of relevant blood relatives, and there is an ongoing methodology of taking samples from dead relatives. The government also expects co-operation with the International Commission for Missing Persons to help speed up the process of identifying unidentified remains. I'm saying I'm worried it's going to take a long time, too. In addition to the Department of Judicial Medicine, which has the highest burden in this DNA identification activity and which is probably overloaded and other tasks in the report are not visible the success of the work of other centres, or the centre of Osijek, and the one in Split seems to be gone, i.e. I did not find it in the report. It's all the weaknesses we have to, whether we want to or not to consider. It is possible that because of these and other problems, the Alliance of Associations of Detained and Missing Croatian Lawyers of the Homeland War has shown dissatisfaction with the speed of resolving the question of the fate of missing defenders and civilians. The ministry said they were wrong. Personally, I believe that the views of these very associations must be taken seriously, because if someone is interested in solving this problem as soon as possible, it is them. We at the SDP club welcome everything that has been well done in these two years, but we believe that existing problems in further work on finding missing persons cannot be solved in a given organisational structure. By abolishing 2004 the government's Office for Detained and Missing and Turning Its Administration at the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, I note that it is one of hundreds and eight administrations as many as there are in the Croatian government. Very quickly, there was an inability to successfully coordinate activities with nearly a dozen institutions that are by nature related to this process of finding missing persons. Therefore, at the request of the association, the government was forced to form a special commission for prisoners and missing in July 2005. Believe me, this commission cannot, like any other committee, successfully solve problems of this complexity. I stress there is no misunderstanding. It has nothing to do with who's in charge of this person or that person. Simply such organization of jobs creates narrow throats, i.e. Permanent blockades in operation. Thus, even more pronounced problems were present in the late 1990s, and this was changed by forming a government office where all rights were concentrated, but also all responsibility. This is why we propose to the Government to consider setting up a central government office for prisoners and missing all with the aim of a professional, responsible and effective continuation of work to address this once again stressing the most important humanitarian issue in Croatia. Adding the reason aside from the more efficient and faster performance of the work is also a part of the activity that crosses the frameworks of the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity. Because in addition to seeking exhumation and identification of the remains of Croatian defenders and civilians, it is also the task of finding all other victims in the Homeland War, as well as the victims of World War II. These are the tasks that will be dealt with, not one government, for a long time this problem will remain open. Let's try to shorten that time though. So we accept this report, but also on behalf of the SDP club, it announces if the government does not want to take that obligation that the SDP Club will submit a proposal to amend and supplement the Government Act in the direction of setting up the Central State Office for Detained and Missing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60298	Thank you, colleague. On behalf of the HDZ club, counterpart, Vice President Darko Milinovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60299	Dear Vice President, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister, Honored Mr Grujic, Honored Ladies and Gentlemen. In the opening part of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it points out that the question of the fate of prisoners and missing persons during the Homeland War is one of the most significant humanitarian issues in Croatia. With this claim the government probably all can, and I dare say and must agree. We are aware that this issue is not only of humanitarian importance but also of a number of other humanitarian but also of political issues such as the return of exiles, the establishment of co-existence, the status rights of victims from the Homeland War, demining and restoring relations with Serbia-Montenegro. The mentioning return of the exiles should highlight the significant progress Croatia has made in this area since it is one of the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that it wants to address by the end of 2006. Significant funds and efforts have been targeted in recent years to accelerate the process of economic revitalisation of the area of return, i.e. the area of special state concern. A large number of family houses, apartments and schools financed from almost exclusively the state budget were also renovated. Significant progress has also been made over the past year in the return of property to owners. The main effort this year will be aimed at the housing of former tenant rights holders who have extended the deadline for submission of applications outside the area of state concern, and in the area of special state care, the deadline is not limited. I cite all of this in order to get a total picture of Croatia's efforts to normalise relations with the countries of the former Yugoslavia. Normalization of relationships is an inevitability from which we cannot turn our head and which we need and which will mean and help us find missing persons. The fate of the missing, violently taken and imprisoned Croatian defenders and civilians is deeply shaken not only by the feelings of their families but also by all the Croatian public. In a desire to be as effective as possible in solving this problem, the Government in 2004, shut down the work of the Government Office for Detained and Missing, and its jobs were transferred to a newly established institution of the Department of Detained and Missing within the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, which has the task of restoring, performing professional tasks relating to the search for prisoners and missing persons during the Homeland War, and the exhumation and identification of remains from mass and individual tombs. Last year, the government established the Croatian Commission for Prisoners and Missing Persons as an advisory and professional interdepartmental body for issues of prisoners and missing persons, all due to the complexity and sensitivity of dealings. The Commission shall provide the Government with proposals, opinions and expert reasons in the area of search for prisoners and missing persons. This reconstruction, unlike the SDP club, we believe that both this reconstruction and redistribution of businesses have yielded some results, as well as continued co-operation with the government of Serbia-Montenegro. The Prime Minister's meetings were held. Ivo Sanader with a representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Vojislav Kostunica, in Belgrade and in 2005 in Zagreb. These meetings resulted in a certain shift in exhumation and sampling from 67 post-mortem remains in Belgrade, 9 persons found in the Serbia-Montenegro area, as well as an agreement on continuing exhumation and work on the search for missing persons. After a two-year break, progress is... As an acceleration of cooperation has been announced in solving the fate of the prisoners and the missing, and concrete activities have been agreed, including removing the secrecy of documents from the 1991 Vukovar hospital that were in the archives of Serbia-Montenegro's military. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This will help to detect the fate of prisoners and missing from the Vukovar area. Missing persons are also wanted in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Unfortunately, there are a lot of problems in this area because Bosnia and Herzegovina did not show itself to the co-operation protocol the Republic of Croatia referred to me in 2003. To praise this frequent communication with families imprisoned and missing as well as the government's co-operation with international organisations dealing with issues of prisoners and missing persons. As there was the possibility of manipulating numerous victims by individual governments and in order to obtain reliable data, the International Commission for Missing Persons participates and assists in researching individual and assists in researching governments from the region, and they have noticed that some governments are manipulating the number of missing persons for political purposes and using a DNA analysis of the effort to learn the world about the truth about wars in the former Yugoslavia. It is important to say that they pointed out that Croatia is trying to identify as many numbers as possible, more active co-operation with the Croatian government began at the end of May by exchanging the database with DNA samples. Co-operation with Croatian authorities is assessed as very good, with the Office for Detained and Missing at the Ministry of Defence, Family and Intergenerational Solidarity. Although satisfied with the progress made by families seeking missing family members, it cannot be said that enough has been done until the last body on the missing list has been found. In November of last year, the International Commission for Missing Persons signed with the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, which includes the Department for Detained and Missing, the Protocol on the Exchange of Missing Persons Data. The joint project worked to collect blood samples from members of the family of missing persons in Croatia who are looking for their missing persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Then at the beginning of the year, DNA profiles were exchanged from bone samples of unidentified persons who were compared to DNA samples of blood from family members who had at the base to link names to missing persons on the basis of these matching reports. For the beginning of September, concrete results and beliefs are announced that quite a number of families will be able to bury the dead as appropriate. In co-operation with the Croatian International Commission for Missing Persons, it wants to help Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia solve missing persons' cases. It is estimated that in the next three years we could complete the project, provided that the progress shown by Croatia is followed by other countries in the region. An alarming situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina is where the process flows, in fact, at the slowest. Confirmation to the Croatian side that it is working well as confirmation of high standards that meet Croatia has arrived by the OSCE which reduces monitoring, and the Republic of Croatia leaves exhumation and identification actions for the purposes of the International Criminal Court investigation, the implementation of a joint project with the International Commission for Missing Persons based on equal relations, as well as the announced closure of the Office of the International Committee of the Red Cross in Croatia in the middle of this year. The report also states that Licko-Senj County's request for the exhumation of post-mortem remains, part of which refers to the victims of World War II and which need to be executed in order to begin works on the construction of the church of "Croatian Martyrs" in Udbin. The Government said that, following the implementation of the activities, the number of missing persons in the Republic of Croatia is 1140 missing and violently taken away whose families launched the search procedure with the Ministry of Defence, family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity and 915 other missing citizens of the Republic of Croatia for whom the data were collected in cooperation with the International Committee of the Red Cross. The task of the Croatian Government does not stop until the last missing body is found, so it is necessary to make the most of the efforts to illuminate the fate of all the prisoners and violently taken civilians and Croatian defenders. It is a commitment to ourselves, and especially to them and their families whom they themselves say their loved ones have not disappeared, because they all live on among their families and friends who do not surrender, who do not deal with uncertainty, and that is why it is the duty of the State for which they have sacrificed themselves to do everything in order to reveal their destiny. Dear ladies and gentlemen, at the Croatian Democratic Community club, we think it is not too much to stress once again that Croatia has paid a high price of independence with its own victim of Croatian defenders, the aggressor has been beaten, and the dream has become a reality. From this place, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community orders all defenders, families of the dead, imprisoned and missing that no victim has been in vain and will ever be forgotten. We thank each other once again, both members of other peoples and religions who have sacrificed themselves to have more peace, prosperity and pleasure in these Croatian spaces. Because of all this, because of the present, but also more because of generations to come, no nameless giant and historical event that has an impact on the development of Croatian consciousness must be forgotten. At the very end of the assessment report very good, the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club proposes to the Croatian Assembly to accept the report on the search for prisoners and missing persons from 1 January 2004 to 1 March 2006. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60300	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the HSS Club, colleague Zeljko Ledinski. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60301	Honorable Vice President, Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Prime Minister. Allow a few words on behalf of the cube of HSS on the search report for prisoners and missing persons during the period shown here. First of all here, colleagues from other clubs said that this must be the most important humanitarian issue and that everyone should be concerned about if possible, because the fates of the prisoners and the missing persons are certainly important for all of us, especially for the families of those who stayed behind. For this reason, in this job that is certainly extremely complex, there are also many positive ones, and that is that a dozen living people have been found in that business. This also proves how important it is to spend as short a time as possible, to find all the prisoners and the missing who are left. The criteria that have been adopted and the way the administration itself works, and before the offices set up, I think they are well-defined, and that is, above all, the continuation of talks and negotiations with neighbouring countries with which we were also at war, then the intensification of the process, identification and exhumation, the continuation of cooperation primarily with international organisations, and the continuation of cooperation with associations that gather families imprisoned and missing. I think more of the data that are relevant can be found in this way and that could help to end this important part of the work left behind after the Homeland War. That's why all the HSS club will support this report and from this place we want to tell everyone who can help no matter where they are, to help with this search. I think it's always good to make an appeal from places like this, especially in places where possible, in international conventions and other areas where it's mentioned. It's less important about us how this office or administration is set up, it's important that he does this job as well as possible. I believe that the only formation of the government's commission that was formed in July 2005, has contributed to making it even more and better and better to work, and probably the government itself realized that perhaps that part of the work that had been without one roof body was going maybe a little slower than it was intended. As a result, the tasks put forward before this commission are also certain that they are particularly relevant in the co-ordination area with other countries, with other organisations, associations involved. The work done by the administration is clearly primarily linked to the largest part of our country, in our county. Here we have a reference in this reporting period to how many mass graves were discovered and exhumed, in which places with data on what was and how it was found. But here I would point out one of the information listed here also, that the administration also dealt with the identification of post-mortem remains of persons from World War II, and what was particularly pointed out was that we participated in the identification of the post-mortem remains of the Macedonian president, Mr Cekovski, personally I was in Macedonia at that time, and I know that they were extremely grateful to our authorities who were involved in this particular experience which was exceptional, here I was then in one other property there, not as a representative but here I have to show the satisfaction of hearing them that they were satisfied that they had the opportunity with a friendly country that we could help them in that part. And in that part, it would certainly be good if we had been involved in such humanitarian activities. What is certainly important is that we continue to connect with all international organisations that are working on these issues, here they are both numbered and listed. I would especially point out the Red Cross that really has a number of data and it comes to them in time and these data can certainly be very helpful in further activity. It is still stated which will remain to be done, but I believe we will not be satisfied until the last missing is fully found. I don't know how long it'll take. I know that our wishes are to make it as soon as possible as we wish to try to demine the rest of Croatia. It was a ten-year plan, we couldn't finish it, so I don't even know when this job would be complete. But in any case, here I would like to get at least one thorough report every year like this, to have information about it, and to get to know our public what the government and other institutions do about it. During the debate, on the Committee on Veterans, the president of the Alliance, he made it clear that there were problems, that he was long waiting for certain jobs. I realize that it's certainly hard for our people in the association to accept that some have to wait for the identification of the remains, after exhumation, so that these jobs are slow. But I also understand that they are extremely complex and that they must be really trained and expert team. And for that reason, let us not regret that in the next budget and all others, we shall allocate as much funds as is necessary for such jobs. They must have priority and here I appeal to our vice president to vote for that part of the need in the state budget itself and to advance as far as possible towards the ultimate goal, which is to get information about all the missing and prisoners. The HSS Club, once again in the end I would have found, will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60302	Thank you. HSP club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60303	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Ms. Vice-President of the Croatian Government and Minister. The Croatian Party Rights Club welcomes the appearance of this Report and the debate on this Report. The question of the missing is an important issue that needs to be resolved faster and more effectively. The truth is, during this period certain shifts have been made regarding the number of identified, but normally when the figure is taken that only 63% of the total number is 3 000 54, so this applies to all missing Croatian defenders from 91s, so the number... The request in 94 was 3 thousand 54 and that it was solved means 63%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A thousand and nine hundred and fourteen, there's still one thousand 140 left unsolved with these others missing. He says the situation isn't the way it's supposed to be, that we all want to be here together, and above all, how we want the families of the missing. Because as time goes on, they unfortunately begin to lose hope of how to solve it all. And I think it is now an opportunity for the government, and she herself said in the report to put additional pressure on Serbia-Montenegro's authorities, mainly after the death of Slobodan Milosevic, because it is to believe that with his death and that the whole team that was building together with him, who started all this and who kept it secret. And then no wonder you got very little data. So now it's time for both diplomatically and otherwise to put pressure on Serbia-Montenegro's competent authorities because they have that information. It is a sad fact, but unfortunately they know everything about what Croatia is asking Serbia-Montenegro for, which, when and where it happened. They know of the tombs, as they did in Srebrenica, and elsewhere. They know it well, but I'm saying, they've been keeping secrets, and now we need to put pressure on them. Now is the best time because that click, that gang that's hiding it all, I have to say so, unfortunately, even though I don't want to use the hard words, which should tell exactly where the bodies of the missing Croatian defenders are. So we must especially ask, so the HSP Club asks the government that now is the best time to put that extra pressure. If it doesn't work within 6, 7 months, it'll go back to the same tactics that it's been up to now. No one knows anything, even though everyone knows everything. Therefore, it is one of the most important objectives of government and how and in what way this part is further solved. Because the very fact that families of missing Croatian defenders are beginning to lose faith in what is done is enough to speak for themselves because we saw ourselves that people are hiring psychics, in different other ways trying to solve this issue. We know that there are many and many other issues, of status, of everything else that follows this whole course and procedure. One is the situation when someone is still being led as a missing Croatian defender regarding status and other matters in relation to the part when it comes to the late Croatian defender. And for this reason, it can also be done in parallel for missing people in the area, which is what Serbia-Montenegro or Bosnia and Herzegovina is looking for, but should also, in parallel, put emphasis on the 91st demand. Because these are the most silent and unfortunately only means it's solved according to this all visible 63%. Therefore, within these efforts and all else, the situation is not the same, and that is why we will take this report into account. Normally, we appreciate and support these efforts, but we ask the government to be determined, so it goes and asks Serbia-Montenegro to finally reveal itself. It's visible that they also have data in their archives. That it would declassify it. Whether or not, but there should also be additional pressure through the international community to provide adequate support to Croatia. First of all, it means families of missing Croatian defenders, normally through international organisations. I mean the Red Cross and the European Union and all the relevant bodies. So, it doesn't matter how and how it's going to be in line for us at the Croatian party of rights club, whether it's going to be separate, whether it's going to be within the ministry. It's less important. The important thing is that the job is done properly, and I say it will not be possible to do so unless we put more pressure on Serbia-Montenegro. And on the other hand, we have to do it ourselves, that's the part where there are indications, there's information in the territory of Croatia. These areas should be demined. So these areas should be demined because we have seen that a lot of such areas where this part cannot be carried out are neither experimental nor this part seen whether the information is accurate or not. So, we expect the Government to also order the Croatian Mine Action Centre to spot these spaces in such situations by speeding up the whole process. Therefore, we are receiving a report of knowledge, the shifts are made but I say normally that we are not, no one can be satisfied with these shifts, it is not a question that the government could do everything because the problem is about Serbia-Montenegro but now it is a good time to put that additional pressure on the part of the government to take all the knowledge areas so that our Croatian defenders can be buried to demininate and to make this course and process go far better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60304	Thank you. We're going to individual debates. Dear representative, Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60305	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Vice President, assistant, colleagues and colleagues! Here, I would refer to this report because I find it extremely important because the question of the fate of the prisoners and the disappearances of the Homeland War is that it is bound to be the fate of the missing in World War II. All these issues are indeed of priority and humanitarian importance for the Republic of Croatia and for us from Vukovar-Srijem County of particular importance. We know and this report makes it clear that in fact the Vukovar-Srijem County is the biggest victim when it comes to the Homeland War and when it comes to human victims and casualties, but also material damage and the consequences are still felt in every respect. Here we have the number of renewed applications in 94 were 3,000 54 of which is a thousand 356 from Vukovar-Srijem County, which is about 44%. The data tells us that only 63% of the fate is solved, or a thousand 914, and that here we look for another thousand 140 people, and now the Minister has told us that one person is less than data, that's one person less when we look at the data we think it's small, but when we look at the significance then it's certainly a lot. From that 142 mass grave of a thousand 200 individual tombs, I'd also point out that it's important from the beginning of the exhumation. So, about 3,000 and 560 and exactly 3 thousand 568 people were exhumed, and here we see that Vukovar-Srijem County is first with a thousand 969 people, which accounts for about 55%. We see here that the number of identified is much more favourable and this is 2,000 and 981. Unfortunately, we also have these 587 unidentified persons buried in common graves in Mirogoj and in the central cemetery in Osijek. I would also like to point out here, and I think it is very important that the Department of Inmates and Missing Persons spent activities for permanent care and a thousand 163 victims of World War II exhumed in 92 in Macela, in the area of Bjelovar and that the exhumation was now carried out in an unconfirmed number of post-mortem remains in the area of Udbina where the church of Croatian martyrs is being built and we see that it is indeed in its construction that it fully justifys its findings and title. During the reporting period, the Board of Detained and Missing Knowledge of 215 possible places of mass and individual tombs. Here, we also heard in the statement that 126 such test excavations were carried out in 2005 alone. And I've been there on many occasions, and we know how hard it is, how demanding and painful work it is for those who work without talking about families that wait for results. Of course, it's a good thing we have these anonymous phone calls here so that we can work even more successfully on it. So, of these 215 possible mass graves and individual tombs, 57 sites have been found and the existence of postmortem remains has been confirmed, five of which are mass graves. We see of these five mass graves again two are located in Vukovar-Srijem County or in the town of Tordinci and, as pointed out in the previous exhibition by the Vice President, that it is secondary tombs and in fact these secondary tombs, i.e. the moved tombs, represent a special problem in finding. Yet, here, 26 of them were exhumed, 24 of whom were identified, and all of them were locals of the Tordinites, who were captured and taken in late October 1991. In the reporting period, it is also mentioned that the remains of 144 persons were exhumed but were identified in 277. Progress has certainly been made in exhumation and co-operation with Serbia-Montenegro, along with all of these that we have so far listed that the prime minister has personally contributed to all of this with his meetings, and there are known camps and prisons in Staičevo, Begejci, Nis... Listened a lot and we know a lot. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I think that in these areas and Serbia-Montenegro, there are questions about these answers about a thousand 139 missing. The problem of the missing in Bosnia and Herzegovina has also been highlighted with 68 of them, which should certainly be sought more intensively. And finally, I would say that I strongly support the work and report of the Board of Detained and Missing, the work of the commission and certainly the ministry and remind again of this figure which means today one number less than one thousand 139 missing persons and that certainly there should be a priority question that every person, it is the least we can do to make a decent burial. It's the least we can do for that person but also for their families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60306	Thank you. At 16.57 p.m., it is time for individual reports of debate on this agenda. Dear Representative Vladimir Stengl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60307	Thank you. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues! If only the dates of the period on which this report on the search for prisoners and missing persons applies, this is from 1 January 2004 to 1 March 2006, so it cannot be concluded and confirmed that this is how one of the most important humanitarian issues in the Republic of Croatia is mentioned and that I am free to claim the most significant humanitarian issue in the Republic of Croatia in the way that this issue is doing its weight and deserves it. Of course, the subject is extremely sensitive, it takes a long time. It is difficult to put yourself in the position of those who are still seeking their loved ones because you know each of us who was so fortunate that no one else was hurt, that he was not yet being held captive or missing wanted to forget about it all together or simply shut down. But the victims don't know. And then and therefore, there may be dissatisfaction with the pace of solving and finally lighting these fates not only for mere criticism and not only for mere criticism but for desire, for need, for the obligation to know about the grave place, to mark it with dignity, to be able to carry flowers and light a candle. Therefore, we must understand and feel compassion for all those who have experienced and still experience this excessive fate and perhaps not possibly condemning some of their steps. Unfortunately, that's true, too, but it's only slow happening. However, let us look at some of the details of this report and the statistics we present. It's getting harder and harder to find places in the tombs. The exhaustion of available knowledge shall be indicated. There is little reliable information available. That's no wonder. One reason is the time shift, unfortunately not small, and the other is organized moving its own time to other locations. So the weak marks are getting lost. But we can hope that the data from the JNA military archives today will help. The largest number of persons requested on 1 March of this year, i.e. to conclude with that date, are data, while the data in this report is from the Vukovar-Srijem County 504 and the teaching majority of waste on the town of Vukovar itself. The whole situation clearly explains the example I'm about to set. It's about the Sotin settlement, ten miles from Vukovar. Today, there is still an unknown fate between 35 and 40 inhabitants of Sotina who disappeared in 1991. Their families, friends, neighbors are extremely organized. Every day they pray in one place in the center of the settlement, wanting to eventually awaken the conscience of one of the locals of another nationality and eventually learn something. But until today, everything is in vain. No results. Open phones, dozens of conversations, that's exactly dozens of conversations. Taking over what would be said of all structures is just pain and pain. Another detail when it comes to Sotin is interesting. It was indicated that in a location that seemed to be founded, there was a sign of a location that had been made thorough. According to the configuration of the terrain, distance from the settlement, access roads, nearby water all pointed to a location very, very similar to Ovcara. Test excavations have been performed but have not yielded results. When you talk to people you assume might or should know about, you usually get answers in style: "Those who live over now know that," they mean Serbia and Montenegro. And you hear other stories and explanations. In one yard in the well, the remains of a few victims were found. The person who saw it from the window of his house had to see it because it was not further away from that place than it did to the church of St. Mark’s reply that it was not directed to look out the window. I sincerely hope that the appeal of a esteemed colleague of the Pupovec today expressed from this pay phone will bear fruit. I have listed all of this to support the claim made in the report on the difficulties of obtaining information, and since it is a third of the surface area of the Republic of Croatia because it has been so occupied it is not difficult to conclude how safe or under the questionnaire the service that submits this report is. It's obvious that only every fourth of the information is reliable. And it's kind of just statistics again. In two counties, Osijek-Baranja and Vukovar-Srijemska are 7% and 14% for this reporting period. I'm familiar with it, and I've made sure not a small number of times about the duty I've dealt with with how much commitment this job of seeking, exhumation and identification is being carried out and that this report remains, with all the praise and acceptance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60308	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60309	Thank you, Mr. President. Honored Deputy Prime Minister Dr. Grujic. My colleagues and colleagues. It's just like not only on behalf of the Club said fellow MPs, but here's only the individual opportunity when we're discussing this topic that it's one of the most humanitarian issues, one of the most humanitarian issues that can ever arise in one country. It is certain that it is one of the most painful and most prominent issues as he claimed on behalf of the Pancic Club. That is why this report should therefore be discussed just as it requires the subject prudently and even without pathetic but in any case without any thought or politics. And it's good that it's also noted on behalf of the SDP Club, it's one big advance and one big confession that finally here where they're asked not to look for Croats, not to look for Serbs, to look for a man. And that's something that needs to be recognized by this government. Something that's already been done by the government. Unfortunately, that's why she was criticised. And that is why, in this sense, we praise this one approach because this is the only approach that we can get to the one and that goal that our colleague Stengl spoke about earlier on. So this is the only way, and only when a certain result or shift was as visible as that. And it's certainly also true that those who have been moving away for a long time are right that it's logical by some logic of things that it's harder to get to the missing, to the dead, to their resting places so that they really have a decent final resting place. And that's why a team before time goes by, that's kind of exhausted in some way, and the knowledge that they've born at first is that it's certainly in this way in one mutual cooperation and also with international humanitarian institutions it's possible to come to a final result. Since this is certainly an opportunity to point out that there are also objective difficulties in the work itself, in the absence of valid comparative data to identify the deaths. This is certainly the occasion to see, what he said on behalf of the club, and I will personally repeat it on my own behalf, to give thanks here and public recognition which we often know simply, although we all think and keep quiet because we are always critical of it, but to give our recognition and support to Dr Grujic, who has been consciously working on this job for years. And that's how he stayed at the height of his professional mission and his human mission. What I would especially like to point out is that associations that were dissatisfied with the further finding of persons, actually their loved ones... and deny the problem, that the associations are wrong. [[Because of the microphone, the speaker doesn't understand.]] It is certain that they are impatient, nervous over time. But it certainly doesn't give us the right to simply in such a way in a short sentence, that the associations are wrong, we just take them off the agenda. However, I mean exactly what the SDP Club's initiative is also mentioned, that if the government wants to continue to improve this work so that it should certainly be considered from that good organisational solution and that it is necessary to admit a mistake where, if we remember this first law and the amendment of the Government Act in which it went and later the results show in different areas, especially this once most sensitive one that was not the happiest solution to classify the very Government's office as one of the many administrations in that ministry which is otherwise quite large. Why? It's because of the nature of things because it's a job that surpasses and crosses not only the intelligence but also the powers and strength and power of a ministry. And so when these problems arise, the only logical thing that makes sense is that one coordination that is needed in many government affairs, it is in itself needed in this particular task. And that's why the government is aware of such organisational awkwardness, I'd say. She passed the regulation that formed the commission. And now there's one administration and one commission, but the commission can't have this one power to unite the work of not only the other institutions, but also individual ministries, because simply logic and hierarchy form government and individual ministries and their relationship doesn't give such an authority that they can ask the individual ministries for what they need for this nature and kind of work. That's why I think, here, by completing these brief notes and referring to this report, that the government should seriously consider that it is in this particular goal of improving and final solution to the search for prisoners and missing persons, to return that last form, that is to adapt to the new formation of the Government's special administrations and to form the Central State Office, precisely for the prisoners and the missing. And that's how the administration in the ministry just shut down. That's how she would, I say, get the required level not only, I'm not going to say credibility, I'm going to say operational. Because that kind of operation is necessary, I say, because more of them are ways that produce fruit from the beginning by some logic of things. But here, now that they have already exhausted the very one of the first-class importance of international co-operation and international co-operation not only, therefore, with neighbouring countries but also with international organisations, it will be possible only if the matter is placed in organisational form as described by counterpart Pancic, saying on behalf of the SDP Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60310	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60311	Mr. President of the Parliament, Deputy Prime Minister, Colonel Grujic. The search, the determination of the fate of the missing, the search for their tombs, the exhumation, the identification, it's one area that was initially a political issue, and in time it received its humanitarian features. Then these humanitarian traits grew above that political dimension and it began as early as last government's mandate, and even though such an attitude was also criticised, it continued in this government as well. Which is good because simply the results are better when this problem is seen as a humanitarian problem. Why? When it's considered humanitarian, then it opens up an opportunity, one field of cooperation with the neighbors. And when the nationality of the victim and the conditions of the victim are ignored, when the victim is approached exclusively from that humanitarian aspect, then the data we get from the other side will probably be richer, and time also shows that they are. And then we'll be more successful at that job. I don't have enough nice, big words to describe Colonel Grujic's sacrificed work. I guess for 10 or more years now, he's been doing this hard, hard, responsible job, always with dignity, always with piety, always with the same attitude toward each victim. By doing this job, we've also raised a whole generation of quality forensics. They were first taught by Dr. Snow who came to Ovcara, doing the first interviews. Today they have an international reputation in Europe, perhaps even in the world. They are calling on our forensics officers to help them identify, so here is the tragic procession of the Macedonian president and other areas. Which means, she was raised in this painful, unfortunate job by a team of experts with whom we can be proud. This is a job that can't stop anyway. He can't stop, and when he's done, that's hard to say. It is important, however, that progress exists, that these reports show that results are achieved. It seems slow, and associations seem slow, but it probably can't go faster if you want to do quality work, if you don't want to play with the families of the victims, if you don't want to expose them to additional trauma. Once in front of them, when they are asked to accept that identification, then there must be no doubt. Because there's no repairs, there's no correcting results. The result just because he's sick, which is hard to accept must be reliable, must be correct, must be final. Now, what makes me a little confused, which is why we always need to create something new, even if it's a good job. And this business under Colonel Grujic's leadership is going well from the beginning. So there was still the need to abolish the government's office, which is to create a ministry administration, which is a kind of degradation. It's a degradation after all. The end of so many administrations in one ministry that it comes down from the government level and puts it at the ministry level. Well, in order to fix it a little bit, to say it is not a degradation, then the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is also created for prisoners and missing, and now we see in the report what the Commission has been doing since it was founded. It was founded in July 2005 then to adopt a solution and appointing the president, members and secretaries of the Commission to do so in August 2005. Then the Committee of its drafts held two meetings. One 2005 and the other 2006 And they are occupied by views on current issues regarding the process of seeking prisoners and missing persons. That's what the commission did. So now I wonder if this commission should have held two meetings in the first place and taken views on the current issues. So these views on current issues could have been taken by the government, could have been taken by the Parliament in some of its conclusions on such reports. And most importantly, there's nothing to fix. You know, this government office that existed radio quality and good and no particular big views of any new commission were necessary, right? So we're going to pretend to be smarter than the ones before us, so we change things, and then when we break them down, we're going to quickly fix them up pretty clumsyly, and we're just hoarding up that clerk's apparatus and we're spending state money. You know, instead of the money that was spent on that commission, it would have been better if it had been given to Colonel Grujic to maybe do another test dig. That would be more useful, much greater. And for the victims who are looking for answers to these questions, and for the very image of our work, rather than for us to start all these new and new civil bodies. But at the cost of even turning out to be boring, repeating what was said, I join the SDP Club's proposal and the single debate proposal. Now that we've gone into change and, when we've gone into these changes, we're going back to that former office, and now the administration, we're going to return some kind of height, turn them into some kind of central state office. I call upon the government to do so, this government, the central state office. So they don't have to be some kind of department at the ministry. And then let's not change that again. Let's not change that anymore, there's no need to change tuna people. They work well, there's no need to change their name any minute, there's no need to play with it. They need support, they need to be thanked, they need respect for their dedicated work, and they need help. They need help to get this job done as soon as possible, which is a question of whether it will ever be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60312	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60313	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I had to answer now even though I was 100% convinced that I would wait until the debate was over. But since SDP advocates are leading the debate to politicize, it must remind you of some facts. Mr. Stazic warned by saying about this work and this report which shows that we have done a lot during the term of office, ignores what is in the report and what I said about the government's work. He warns that we don't need to, so any furniture that comes in is smarter than the other one, so we change. Sir, it's you, or your government just did it. So before Mr. Racan's government arrived, there was a commission. And then you turned it into an office when you got the chance. Therefore, you have no right to talk about the fact that we have now changed something important. In fact, we are putting the Department of Detained and Missing under one large ministry, a strong ministry that has a large budget and that can be fought for the additional funds we have done. I said this year we increased the means of identification and exhumation for an additional two million kunas, strengthened the work of the Administration, strengthened the process in search of the missing and imprisoned. However, we have strengthened the whole process by establishing the commission. I remind you it's '91. There was a commission in '93. Also, then 2000's office and now we have management and we have a commission. The commission is an extremely strong body. That's the government's body. Representatives of the Ministry of Family Affairs, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Defence, Justice, Foreign Affairs and European Integration, Health and Social Care, Science, Education and Sports, State Attorney's Office, Security Agency, OA, POA, etc., Faculty of Medicine in Zagreb, Institute of Judicial Medicine and the Croatian Wood Cross. However, this commission still has its own to say to the sub-groups that work on special projects. Therefore, you cannot say that the establishment of an additional body, a government body, a commission in which the representatives of the ministries and representatives of the intelligence services and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs can reduce this work rather than, as we have proved, have strengthened it. So we have done indeed in these two years all to strengthen this process, and I think that this is evidence and the establishment of this special body, and I repeat exactly for the imprisoned and missing within the Ministry of the Defence Family and intergenerational solidarity has a special status, and this is what the funds that were actually doubled from 2004 to 2006 and from 4 million and something came to more than 8 million. Therefore, I ask you to accept these facts, therefore, in the search for the imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders and civilians of all citizens, i.e. the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, this government is making an extraordinary effort, and here is evidence of the facts that I have presented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60314	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Ivica Pančić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60315	I didn't think I'd have to answer, but still. When the minister says that SDP's parliamentary deputies are having a debate towards politicisation, which is incorrect. Absolutely incorrect. We point only to the problem that has been identified by the associations of imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders, and I don't know why they are nervous. You formed the commission in July 2005 because the Department of Detained and Missing in the membership of the ministry faced problems that it could not solve on its own, and we only point out that even such a formed commission will not create much. Maybe it's a step forward, but the problem stays.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60316	Second correction, honourable representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60317	So also as incorrect, I reject the Deputy Prime Minister's findings that this is about politicizing the problem. We believe that this government, or I believe that this government as the previous government, and I have said it several times, is seriously accessing this problem, doing it responsibly, doing it seriously and having results in it. But I'm sorry, I don't believe that any body so it was called that commission, so either it or the government could be very effective to hold from the draft two meetings and there at those two meetings some general things discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60318	Dear Representative Petar Mlinaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60319	Mr. President, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I've got homework, and they've asked me to bring up the problems they have in common, and the problems are ours. I really need to express my satisfaction and gratitude to these people who have been doing this on exhumation so far. Let's just remember in Vukovar 938 victims, it was meant to comfort every parent, it was meant to put it all in place. It's not easy for these people, even though we helped them on the side, but we were only helping. I therefore express my special satisfaction with the establishment of the Committee for Detained and Missing Governments of the Republic of Croatia at the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. By establishing a commission, this is the biggest humanitarian problem to regain its current strength. I want to openly support all efforts by the Commission to make sure that the ultimate truth about the fate of the missing remains known to the last name, or to the last missing person. I am convinced that the commission has this power, and the help of us defenders and families and associations will not be left behind. They can be helpful and re-integrated Serbs living in Croatia today, living in occupied parts of Croatia at the time of "the province". Let's just get 61 wounded missing from Vukovar Hospital. The demining areas for which there are indications of possible mass or individual graves or in the worst case of remains left on the surface of the country are one of the problems that we have been pointing to through the Office for Detained and Missing for years. Since 2000, we have repeatedly received the answer that a project has just been made and that a regulation or agreement on the priority of demining such areas is being reached. As an example, we cite a belt of breakthroughs from Vukovar towards Vinkovci where many Croatian defenders lost track. A large portion of the remains found today at the Crematorium cannot be identified because of bone devastation. I ask the question who will justify the devastation of possible postmortem remains that have been available to us, but are not exhumed or harvested from the surface due to demining. Regardless of the many real obstacles to identifying all the remains that are presently in the common tombs in Osijek and Zagreb. I'm sure there could have been a lot more results at this point. I'm sure there's one among these remains, and that's a small number of those we're looking for, and families have given blood and done their best to get an I.D. According to the latest findings from the budget, an additional 2 million kuna was allocated for the current year for the exhumation and identification process. The question is how much of this money is the result of the collection of current needs, the purchase of new equipment for laboratory equipment, the purchase of soil testing devices, cost-settling, possibly expert staff, etc. But also how much the budget is increased is the result of the assumption that a much larger number of remains will be identified than those in the last few years. In the last case, the question arises as to what are the assumptions in the number of possible identifications in the current year based on the indicators from the previous year and the assurance that technology has advanced and how much money is certainly precisely for identification. Although I'm not professional enough to discuss the efficiency of the lab, I feel the need for additional personnel or possible technology that the results are possible regardless of a particular job. The remains of Croatian defenders were recently identified seven years after the exhumation. We wonder how many others there are waiting for their turn in the eerie silence of the tomb. These are the words and representatives of the Association of Werewolves Mothers. We're wondering when technology will advance again and at least a few more families will solve their difficult issues. In the area of Vukovar-Srijem County there are still a large number of missing, almost half of the missing Croatian defenders and civilians. A large number of remains were exhumed from the largest mass grave of the New Cemetery in Vukovar that have not yet been identified as from other tombs. I stress once again the common goal of the association and the resolution ministry and all of us, as well as the competent institutions, is to learn the truth. Clearly, all strengths need to be directed toward the speed of knowledge because the biological clock of many mothers is ticking so that there is a danger of the truth not waiting. Unfortunately for us in Vukovar, this happens greatly, parents go into silence and expect to meet together before God with their loved ones. So it is common for us to act exactly as our missing and loved ones deserve, and they deserve to enlighten the truth about their tragic fates, no matter how painful the truth is, it is what all families want. Then they will have a holy place for their loved ones, and they will be able to light a candle and pray. The dignity of digging and sending is sacred to the nearest and deep in the roots of Catholicism and Croatian tradition. And in the end, here's a werewolf hoard. In Vukovar, happiness is when parents find their child when they identify them 15 years later. What about that happiness? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60320	Thank you, dear colleague. There's a respected colleague named Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60321	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Grujic, colleagues and fellow MPs. As noted in the report, the question of the fate of prisoners and missing persons during the Homeland War is certainly one of the most important humanitarian issues in the Republic of Croatia. In 2004, the government adopted a regulation that ended the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for prisoners and missing, and all jobs were transferred to the newly established Directorate for Detained and Missing within the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. It is precisely for the reason that jobs in the missing persons' search process are carried out more professionally and more effectively in order to address more effectively very complex issues in the search for missing persons who require inter-resorial coordination and cooperation of other factors. In 2005, the government also made a decision on the establishment of the Commission for Prisoners and Missing Persons, which unfortunately was abolished in 2001. Since the beginning of the Homeland War, since 1991, Croatia has sought 18 thousand missing persons. It was successfully rescued from camp 7000 760 prisoners, and about 4000 were exchanged. In her search for the missing Croatian sides, she has been negotiating for years, sometimes facing obstacles and crossings from the other side. In 1995 and 1996, the Serbian side organised and destroyed mass graves of Croatian victims to cover up the crimes committed, which today certainly makes it difficult to locate the tombs. There were about 10 of which three were found. In the wider area of Vukovar, one site is explored, with Osijek one mass grave and several individual graves. There are localities in western Slavonia, Banja, Butch and Clay. Investigations that show there's a high probability that there's a mass grave on these sites. In this reporting period, efforts have been made to address the problem of missing persons. So a free phone is open, a phone number that can be anonymously tipped off by the data that is then checked on the basis of them determines whether or not to be excavated and searched for mass graves. Unfortunately, out of over 4000 calls, only 10 percent provided useful information. After the Prime Minister is Dr. Ivo Sanader and Deputy Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor are negotiating at the highest level by creating a positive political climate between both sides in resolving missing persons' search for what certainly has been a positive shift. The archives of the Yugoslav People's Army in Serbia-Montenegro certainly hide the secret of most of the thousands and 140 missing persons in the Republic of Croatia on the list of prisoners and missing during the Homeland War. There's a secret sign removed from that building. A shift has also been made in the interpretation of the number of missing persons due to the application of the unique criteria of the International Committee of the Red Cross and the way in which the tomb is sought and identified, where the problem of identifying reliable information on the places themselves arises, i.e. about locations. Unfortunately, there is a problem of demining because many of the potential places are both mass and individual tombs within an untamed area. Since the beginning of the exhumation process in the Republic of Croatia, a total of 4000 67 remains have been exhumed from which 3 thousand and 313 remains have been identified. In the reporting period, from 1.1.2004 to 1.3.2006, the remains of 144 people from 57 locations of which are 5 mass graves were exhumed. At the same time, 126 exhumed remains were identified and handed over to families. The total number identified in relation to the number of exhumed during such a short period shows great sacrifice and expertise of persons working on identification. Sadly, each mother and father awaiting to know the fate of their child or family members turns into eternal suffering. And to conclude, I especially call on returnees who lived in this area during the occupation of Croatian spaces and have knowledge of how to suffer and places where tombs are found to engage in the search for the missing. I also stress my gratitude for the sacrifice, for the work of the Department of Detained and Missing Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, and I fully accept this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60322	Thank you, dear colleague. The replica of counterpart Tomasic. Do you have a replica? You don't. I don't know, it was a raised tile, that's why. ... Excuse me. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's not the part we're going in. There's a respected colleague, Brnadić. Here you go, pals! She's gone. It's my dear colleague Raven's turn. He's gone. He's losing the right to vote on this subject. Dear colleague Roxandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60323	Mr. Vice President! Here, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, Colonel Grujic, this report really fully shows all the fate of Croatian casualties. Unfortunately, I can't read this report without wearing one bitterness because I come from the Sisak-Moslavina County, which 52% was occupied in the Homeland War and which is unfortunately in the second place of death according to this data. The number of victims and missing is large. 651 persons were exhumed, of which 527 were identified. We're looking for 264 more people and we know according to our data that there are only 38 defenders, so the people who participated directly in the war operations. Everything else is civilians. Since 1994, the total number of wanted has been 647. 59% of them were found. Their fate is known, and what about those who are still wanted. When the search began in 95, mass graves were discovered in our county. One of the first was in Bacin, a small place on the coast of the river Una between Croatia's Kostanica and Croatia's Dubica where 56 people were found, including children and old people. So far, 11 markings of mass graves have been carried out in Sisak-Moslavina County, three in the area of the town of Petrinja, three in Croatia Kostanica, four in Glina and already mentioned in Bacin. It's very difficult to collect information about places like this. Often, such data is collected on the basis of people's stories. It is good that the government's commission, which was founded last year in July, also took care of this problem, has established a working group that will deal with the collection of knowledge about persons, places of mass graves and the search for missing persons. The hardest process is looking for a person. Families are looking for their loved ones. I've been working with defense organizations, widows, parents every day. It's hard to believe when and where, and not even the question of how, it's just important that we know where their bones are, and there's no answer. Therefore, it is necessary to ask those like my colleague Šolić who have any knowledge of those who lived in these occupied areas to report their findings to the authorities. We also have a free phone that can be said on. The basic human right is to be properly buried. This report also shows the efforts of the Croatian government to solve all very difficult problems of searching for, identifying, exhuming the missing even though this difficult job will not reduce the pain of the family they are carrying but will make life a little easier for them. And I can't often not remember all those moments and all that knowledge when and I believe there can be the most said by Colonel Grujic and Deputy Prime Minister who are often present in such situations when these victims are identified. That is why I think we should all give full support without any politics to this responsible business because it is part of Croatian history and a prerequisite for co-existence in the areas of the lost war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60324	Thank you, dear colleague. I have one application in five minutes on behalf of the HDZ Club, but my colleagues aren't here. Does anyone else want to speak for the HDZ Club for five minutes? No, I don't. Does he want the closing word? Representative for the Proposer Mrs Jadranka Kosor Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60325	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives! Thank you very much for the debate, which was comprehensive. Of course, there were also constructive and well-intentioned proposals and remarks that the government and the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity would take into account. I'd just like to mention one more problem in the end that I didn't talk about in the opening. I want to mention, I think it's very important. Namely, it appreciates this process of searching for or exhuming test excavations, so the whole over-requested process following information on the possible location of a mass or individual tomb is, unfortunately, closely linked to the problem of mines or mined areas. It's a huge problem that's being said here in the report. And the very fact that during the exhumation process so far, more than a thousand explosive killer devices have been found clearly talking about the complexity of the problem, finally about the dangers that are being exposed regardless of the checks on all those involved in the process. That is why we agreed with the Croatian Mine Action Centre to develop a demining plan. So a map was created, or maps and a demining plan were created for the space of possible places, I repeat, mass or individual tombs, and that space covers here are 36 thousand 150 square meters of four counties. Therefore, this demining business, often spoken of by representatives of associations, is also covered by government plans or by the ministry for the period to come. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I think I can conclude at the end of the debate with thanks to everyone who participated in it that it is time that many of you said the biggest enemy in this process. Time is actually working against all of us, and I think I can promise on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that in this fight against that enemy we will invest maximum, do everything we can to defeat it. As for the report on everything we do in this process, of course we will regularly submit the report. In the end, we are bound by the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60326	Thank you, Madam Deputy Prime Minister. I'm closing the debate. This wheel will be voted upon when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60327	Report on the search for prisoners and missing persons from 1 January 2004 to 1 March 2006 I am giving the vote the conclusion of the report on the search for prisoners and missing persons from 1 January 2004 to 1 March 2006. Please engage, vote. The result? With 99 votes for, 3 abstentions of the proposed act, the conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60328	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Working Time of Sales – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of HSP, first reading P.Z. No. 377; You received the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of this Act, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading shall apply. The debate was held by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction, the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, the Committee on Tourism. You received their reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered its opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear colleague Ruža Tomasic. Here you go, fellow Members, on behalf of the motionary.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60329	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is determined that each employee has the right to a week's rest and the Labour Act has determined that the worker has the right to a week's rest for at least 24 hours uninterrupted. And if it is necessary to work on Sundays, he must be given a week’s rest every week. In particular, it is necessary to note the Law confirming the Treaty between the Holy See and the Republic of Croatia on Legal Affairs, the National Journal, International Contracts No 3/97. This Treaty on Legal Affairs determines the relationship between the Catholic Church and the State and, inter alia, the non-working days agreement. The provision of Article 9 of the Law stipulates that non-working days are Sundays and certain ecclesiasticals. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia international agreements concluded and confirmed in accordance with the Constitution and published which are in force part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia, which are legally above the law. Since 1999, in Croatia's retail week, it has slowly become a normal working day. Although this is not a matter of any need, the need for this kind of work. Today, out of the 65,000 salesmen, 40,000 of them have been doing all or almost every Sunday. And most often without a week's vacation day in the next week and without an increase in pay. 85% of that work according to the collective contract for trade activity. Unlike most employees, every Saturday is working, and 75% of people in retail are working on Saturdays, and then working on Sundays creates additional problems for them to organize childcare because kindergartens are mostly not working on Saturdays and never on Sundays. The work of the store on Sundays opened only a road to the enormous and unoccupied exploitation of workers because the overtime of most workers passes more than 10 hours a week, contrary to the Labour Act, which determines that work for more than 10 hours a week must be sought by the inspector's consent. The employers do not seek the consent of the inspection but do not record such overtime. So he's mostly in the black working zone. So the benefits of such work are not even a worker because he is not paid by the state, because taxes and contributions are not paid, but the benefits are only for unwitting employers. Work on Sundays did not lead to new employment but only increased exploitation of existing employees working on average 58 to 64 hours a week instead of 40 hours. The most dramatic example recorded by the Trade Union is the work of a saleswoman who worked for 65 weeks without a single day of rest and without increased pay. This negative practice was made possible by the Regulation on working time of shops and other forms of retail trade, the National Journal of 80/02, which set out that cities and municipalities decide on the working time of shops, including the possibility of working on Sundays, by way of a provision of Article 46. The labour law that set Sunday as the day of the week's vacation. So as an act adopted by the minister, the rules of a law adopted by the Croatian Parliament were derivated. In addition to Sunday's work on holidays, it has also become common in retail although the Law on holidays, memorials and working days in the Republic of Croatia explicitly states that the holidays in the Republic of Croatia are not working. The short-term application of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Trade, National Journal 170/3 in the period from 1.1.2004 to 29.4.2004 showed that shops can be closed on Sundays and that customers can buy anything they need within 6 days of the week, and that the traffic that was achieved on Sundays has been redistributed to other days of the week, which means that there has been no reduction in traffic on that basis. The Constitutional Court abolished that law with a reason to restrict entrepreneurial freedoms and at the same time returned to force a regulation restricting the rights of workers. The draft law is modelled by a similar law that Germany has in force since 1956 and under which the work of shops on Sundays is not possible. Although the purchasing power of the German population is three times bigger than the Croatian population. Germany has more holidays than Croatia. A total of 16. But in the holidays, no place of sale was opened while in Croatia a good part of the store works most of the holidays. Therefore, the adoption of this Act would strengthen the rule of law in the segment of repealing the labour law on Sunday as the day of Sunday's vacation and respect for the Law on holidays, mentioned and unworkable days in the Republic of Croatia which so far did not apply to retail employees. The basic issues to be regulated by law should be governed by the following basic questions: a ban on working on Sundays, holidays and unworkable days with reference to certain exceptions. The working hours of the store and other forms of trade are prescribed. Shop in tourist resorts during the tourist season. Shop on station, airport, boat ports, boats, gas stations, hotels, campsites, tourist resorts and concert halls, sports facilities, playgrounds during the performance and ports of nautical tourism on Sundays, holidays and days of work. The protection of the rights of workers working on Sundays and holidays is prescribed. Control of the application of sanctions laws for those who do not comply with the law shall be prescribed. And the consequences that the law will result in will be avoided legal and other legal indetermination and ambiguity that enable abuse of labour bans on Sundays, holidays and days of unemployment. The application of the relevant provisions of the Law on Holidays and the Labour Act will be carried out and will allow for better and more effective control of the implementation of those legal provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60330	Thank you, colleague Tomasic. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. A representative of the government? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first in line are representatives' clubs. On behalf of the HDZ representative's club, respected counterpart Markovanovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60331	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, here, for several years now, the work of trade has been done by employers, merchants, buyers, churches, politicians, media, constitutional court, local self-government, trade unions, and civil society. Different opinions, most often completely opposite daily, are followed in numerous interviews, round tables, serious and fun shows. All government efforts to reach agreement and compromise between stakeholders have so far not resulted in a bill. HSP forwarded to the Assembly a proposal for a Working Time Act of Sales. We read that the author is the Trade Union and it would be strange if the proposal looked different, because the Union should defend employees' interests, almost 40,000 merchants working on Sundays. On Sundays you can buy almost anything, from bread, milk to cars, tools, cement, artificial fertilisers and whatever you want. Customers can be easily spoiled, but easily disciplined. Sundays are parking lots of big shopping malls full of cars. There's a lot of walkers in there and a lot of customers. Sunday family lunches, family trips have replaced shopping trips, but not for all families because in 40 thousand families most often mother works, often all day long. If he gets a day off in the week, the family's at work or at school. A typical example of a spoiled customer is known for his happiness as the former political commentator of a commercial TV house, which in the style of that "beach of God" usually appeared and who told the viewers: "And what if on Sundays I wish my wife would bake my favorite cake and there is nowhere to buy chocolate.". So, a statement that was probably remembered at the time. I mean, two years ago. I hope that statement was not crucial to the Constitutional Court, which with five votes in favour and three against it seems to have lifted my ban on Sundays. What happened in those four months? Local self-government organised a shopping service, which was very quickly accepted. Merchants at smaller shops worked every 5, 6, 8, and spent the rest of the week with families. Who was unhappy? Well, normally, the big shopping malls that didn't even want to leave those little Sunday profits to the surviving little shops. He's a famous epilogue. Replay in Slovenia with the same ending. It is normal for traders to be paid additionally on Sundays and holidays, in accordance with the Collective Treaty. But is that right? Some would probably agree to work on Sundays for small wages. The proposal for a law that presents HSP leads to work on Sundays to a minimum. Such a proposal is supported by merchants and churches, but not by employers. Even the unions split up. This proposal has a lot of uncertainty, e.g. definition of tourist season, tourist areas. We remember the abuses of two years ago when the entire county was declared tourist areas and the season was all year round. The penalties proposed for offences are not in accordance with the Laws on Violations. The work of markets can hardly be reduced to selling only a few products. The supply of even the smallest grocery stores is significantly higher than the proposed limit. However, the important reason the HDZ club will not support the proposed law is because we believe that the working time of sales places should be prescribed in the Law on Trade that will certainly not reconcile the Association of Employers and trade unions, but that must protect 40,000 traders and their families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60332	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, dear colleague Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60333	Thank you very much. Kolega Markovanovic said the problem in Slovenia ends as well as in Croatia. It is simply not true, because after all similar problems in Slovenia, the Slovenian Government and the Chamber of Commerce together with the union have decided that Sundays, holidays and working days are determined exclusively in collective agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60334	Thank you, dear colleague. It's on behalf of the IDS Club, dear colleague Damir Cain. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60335	Your Honor, Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament. And I will speak a little differently from both the promoter and Mr. Markovanovic. I'm even going to argue that what is proposed by the promoter is actually a crime towards a small twist. Until yesterday, I thought that the parties who propose such laws were raising the church, and now I see that the church, Kapthol, is doing a job for large trade chains. And instead of the church taking care of the workers, it's paradoxical, but it's like that, in the end, and I'm going to try and explain later she's taking care of large capital. No doubt, I'll be the first to say that the church is part of our identity. All of us who declare ourselves to the Roman Catholic Church recognize a significant role, a role in some way and a moral authority. Although on the other hand, I think we're all going to fight for the secular character of society, which is a note of bene and a constitutional decree. Why do I claim that the church is doing a big-capital job, more specifically for large-scale trading chains? Well, because she's here, among other things, in the most elite part of the city of Zagreb, renting premises to merchants, but above all because the church knows that small shops are failing and that the share of large trade chains is growing on the market year after year. If the church meant taking care of a small craftsman from whom she lives, if the church cared about the worker she lives from, it would not now be used in such demagogy. First, because they're on their own budget...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60336	Comrade Cain, can we agree that you do not discuss who is not the Proposer? You have a bill of law, you're discussing it, and don't discuss the church. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60337	Okay. Among other things, that's where the problem came from. Just to finish what they're on the budget, not the full budget, etc. However, I should now return specifically to this week's work. What's the point and why this criticism against both the church and the unions? Because they cover sides of chains. Because I'm claiming on the side of big, not small merchants. Because they don't fill the budget. But that's why it's filled with small merchants because they don't see how little merchants live. And I say 60% of the small merchants in the worse position is from the workers who work with them. It's whether you believe it or not. They, these little merchants, guarantee all their property. The worker guarantees his work. Where are you going to open a job in this country today? Well, first you'll open it at the store, because it's the cheapest. How can the state be the easiest to get money? It will be the easiest to get money through trade, or VAT. So once again, I'm going to tell the promoters. Let's not ruin the national economy. What's going on in the area of the store? In 2000, the first ten chains respected gentlemen had 16.6% share in the trade. Do you have any idea how many of those first ten chains there are today? 54.9% at the end of 2005. Are you gentlemen represented and gentlemen of the church, union, now clear why you shouldn't defend Sunday's work? That's why the kid's gonna get hurt, 'cause he's gonna make a big profit. Which of these bans will profit if such or similar legal text is adopted. They're gonna get hurt. I said, "Small stores." They're gonna make a big profit. And now let me tell you, in 2000, these big chains had 16.6% of the shares in Croatian trade. In 2001, these 10 large chains already have a market share of 25.8%. In 2002, these 10 largest Croatian chains had a 37.1% stake in Croatian trade. In 2003, these 10 largest Croatian chains have a share of 45.3% in Croatian trade. In 2004, these 10 largest chains have a 51% stake in Croatian trade and end with a 54.9% share in the trade in 2005. So in six years with 16.6% of those 10 large trade chains came to 54.9%. If we now add members of the ultra-grass group, or that SBI, to that, it is more than 60%. So let's not play with this ban on Sunday, especially not in the season, especially in December. When I say it in the season, clearly I'm thinking of shops no matter which, which exist primarily along the Adriatic coast. So from 15.6. to 15.9. if this country wants to have any of that, it all has to work. When's the store gonna work in the summer? Well, she won't be working gentlemen in the morning, and I said she has to do everything. Let's leave it on the side of milk, bread, yogurt. It won't work in the summer, not at 4:00 or 5:00 when everyone's on the beach, they can work at 8:00 or 9:00, and I mean people who come from Korčula, you who come from other coastal cities and towns, you're aware of these facts. So it must simply be in tourist resorts and there is no difference whether it is Umag, whether it is Poreč, whether it is Korčula, Dubrovnik, Zadar, Sibenik or any other city. That's how it must be in December. It's clear that it won't work in December, I speak in mind, at 10:00, but it has to be done at 8:00 or 7:00. Why? Because this store is full of the state budget, because thousands of kunas only on the basis of VAT go 220 kuna into the state budget, and all these other liabilities based on contributions and everything else not to mention. It is clear, gentlemen, that the worker must be paid for his work on Sundays. It is clear that the state must control this work, it must monitor it, it is clear that the worker must have the day off and there is no dilemma there now. But I want to convince you once again, or I can assure you, that 60%, maybe even more, of the little merchants working in the family, survives from month to month. We have no right to endanger their existence. I am particularly pleased that our publishers have rebelled over this legal proposal. They calculated, so newspapers to lose at least 200 million kunas of revenue in a year. It's absolutely accurate information that doesn't need to be doubted, we wouldn't be working these 13 or 14 days how many holidays we have, or holidays plus 54 weeks. Where the day joins with the day, it's at least three months. In the era of electronic media and universal competition, they will simply not survive the trend. Actually, it will. Who's going to survive? They will survive the greatest. And who's gonna get hurt? Gentlemen of the region will suffer from food purchases, with yogurt or milk in the morning when a man goes to buy these products for his family. Once again, I will say what we all know, what we always point out, Croatia is a tourist country. We declare such things, even if it is in the Adriatic from the 1990s to today, so in these 15 or 16 years, not counting hotel renovations, five new hotels have not been built. So let's not deny people work, and let's not just end up being the only country in that pool, the environment, that will defend someone from working. Before we heard the Slovenian example, the small one was allowed to work, the large one was in some way defended. I live there on the border between Croatia and Slovenia, i.e. Italy, and I know that almost everything that can be done in neighbouring Italy does and no one can convince me that it is different there. I said, so Slovenia has regulated it in a way that I can work on Sundays, that I can't work big, it's in some way likely and encouraging this little craftsmanship we adopted in this House before, don't take my word two or three years ago, similar to or almost identical law, but the Constitutional Court under pressure from major lobbying maybe even from this House annulled it, but now what's there is. If we're not ready to go back to those conditions of that legal proposal, say 2003 or 2002, don't take my word for it, I think it was 2003, let's not destroy small merchants who in some year won't survive the competition of large trade chains. The share of small trade at this time, meaning small shops, is about 27% in the words of the president in the shop, in Croatia as it is called the chamber, the craft chamber of Mr. Boris Vukelic. Croatia, I say, is not mature for banning work on Sundays, and this is the most rigorous thing Europe probably knows at the moment. That I am not now giving examples of how this is regulated in other European countries. Like I said in the beginning, I'll end up. That this is simply a crime against small merchants, and therefore this law or similar law must not be passed. And finally, gentlemen, look at the number of craftsmen in the store. He's permanently dropping. In 2005, 39 thousand 492 crafts were active, in January 2006, so this year 39 thousand 51 crafts. So let's not play with the existence of 39,000 and 51 craftsmen, and in the end, it's like we've heard so many other workers. They have no right to do so, nor to propose, nor to church, nor to share unions on this matter. However, if I was not clear enough why this Law could not be adopted then it was precisely this small, large-scale market share ratio, as I would say, trade spending. I said, in 2000, large chains, the first 10 chains participated in that division by 16.6%, and at the end of 2005. 54.9%, and if we add that to this Ultragross group, etc., it's 60%. It is to be assumed that next year the large distribution will exceed 65 and may reach 70%. After that, may God help us or let our small shop be of God’s help.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60338	Thank you very much. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected colleague Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60339	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm correcting an incorrect quote, all the time Mr. Cain is saying that he's going to profit from the big stores, and he's going to get killed by the little ones. In fact, big stores have profited so far. Because a small number of shops and a small number, and a large number of stores, if they paid for all this, if the workers didn't work on black, if they had to pay for everything, I believe they'd give up on Sundays, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60340	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, a respected colleague of Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60341	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I'm not saying what Mr. Cain said about the church. You've reacted very well. But I can tell when he said that Croatia used the same model as one big European tourist country. I, Mr. Caine, lived in Spain for a year, and I believe Spain is one big tourist country. I didn't have any coffee in Porto Real on Sunday mornings, let alone go to the store. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60342	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. Dear colleague Pero Kovacevic on behalf of the HSP Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60343	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. First, I have to tell my dear colleague Cain that we are not discussing the protection of large trade chains today, but we are discussing the protection of disreputed workers working on these trade chains. And you report their business to them, not in this assembly, because today is not a topic. Take a look at the surveys conducted among Croatian citizens and whatever survey I have seen, most Croatian citizens support the systematic resolution of the issue of unworkable Sundays, i.e. to do only what is necessary. That is the will of Croatian citizens, which they show in the polls. It is a sad fact also that today when we are discussing this proposal for a law of the Croatian Party Club of Rights, there is no representative of the Government which only speaks of what their relationship is to it. Why do I say that? Because the announcements of the Croatian government were when the Constitutional Court abolished the Law that we had before, that it would immediately resolve the issue of work, or work on Sundays. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. Then when the Croatian Party of Rights Club accepted the trade union initiative because they tried everywhere, they failed nowhere, then...... Trade unions, yes. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Then we referred this proposal to the procedure and on 1 December, so we sent it to the procedure on 3 November 2005 and on 1 December 2005 the Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered its opinion and, among other things, the part not to be accepted. And now they say, here we are working, working, working, having meetings, meetings and meetings and sayings, the new Law on Trade is in the final phase of production and its reference to the regular procedure is expected by the end of 2005. Today is as far as I know on March 23, 2006. Apparently, it was a tipfeller, as they said otherwise, because they said they'd be heading by the end of December 2005. And therefore, the matter is clear and unmistakable. The only question is whether or not we will be able to protect the disreputed Croatian workers, means those who work in stores, in chains of large houses. Unfortunately, they, or fortunately in their countries, mean these large chains of shopping houses that came to Croatia, neither in Austria nor in Germany do what they do in Croatia because they can't work. And that is why we also support the position of the Croatian Catholic Church that says let's solve it with a referendum. Let's resolve the referendum and let the will of Croatian citizens be seen and let the protection of the disreputed Croatian workers be finally taken into account. I can only say as much as any of you, whenever I go to the store, I'm asked by salesgirls when the law will finally be passed, when it will be, is that what's going on? We've been expecting this debate for a long time. Those who talk about how we shouldn't, here I call them as the union invited them. Mr. Cain, go to the Pevec, work on Sunday all day long who do and have it, not only do they have 182 hours, I asked one, normally I can't tell him his name. He's got a 356-hour monthly fund. I also invite Mr Kramarić to leave on Sundays, but not just one week, but you work four weeks as well as in what way. Therefore, if you support traders and employers, then you share the fate of Croatian workers, so you work every Sunday, with you Mr. Cain or you, Mr. Kramaric or you, Mr. Lesar, and you will see how they are doing. Here, so then you can talk about their experiences, not talk about the protection of employers. Therefore, the matter is clear and unmistakable. Are we protecting the interests of employers here who say they don't need half an hour's work hours, that they don't need any contracts, that they don't need, that they don't need to think about a break, half an hour's rest during work hours, that they have to come when they say, if they complain about the inspection of the current laws that they can expect? Extraordinary or regular termination. And the situation is clear here. I know, I know that's true, but because while you were in power, you didn't pass those laws, you didn't want to pass the laws. I have suggested multiple times that the inspector's solution when it is found in these situations that the employer does not pay overtime, or generally does not pay for work, is not a problem of overtime, that its solution has an executive power. So 356 hours is a lot of workers who work, which is the fund of the hours, and we know what the fund is from 168 to 182 hours, and normally it's funny for you to talk about it now because you don't share the fate of Croatian workers, but you take care of employers, and here it bothers you and the Catholic bothers you. Why? Her.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60344	Wait a minute, just one second. Gentlemen, you three gentlemen counsel, I warn you, I will warn you all and punish you. You're welcome to stick to the line. Please continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60345	And it is unacceptable to use constituencies for attacks on the Catholic Church because it has a role and a task to protect workers as they have protected the whole time of the concept of the Croatian state, Croats and everything else, so they also have this role and that is its mission, and whatever you think about it. You can sell statements of a variety of nature, but take how many Catholics in Croatia are and what polls Croatian citizens consider working on Sundays and then look at yourself in the mirror and defend employers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60346	Thank you. Peace, please peace. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Peace, please. Thank you very much, I give you a warning for the inconclusiveness of Mr. Caine, too unseriously this behavior. Dear Representative Zlatko Kramaric, Club of HSLS Representatives. You can't say, report for correction of the incorrect quote to answer. I forgot what I was going to say. You don't have that big to forget. Please, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60347	If we are already talking about these coalitions in principle and less principle, then it should be reminded that this Act on the ban on working on Sundays was passed in the previous assembly of Parliament and that it was brought by a strange coalition of SDP with HSS plus HDZ and plus HSP, and then the Law had to be abolished after the Constitutional Court because it was obviously not consistent with the structure of the Republic of Croatia. It seems to me that they are actually doing conscious work here, knowingly, they would still unwittingly forgive, but knowingly and dangerously they do a whole series of these logical acrobatics when they're actually changing generations, and that's called the wrong conclusion in logic. It can't be Sunday's fault some employers don't pay for work on Sundays. It's, yeah, you know, you know, and it's like Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, and it's like there's not enough violations on weekdays, so now we're gonna focus on Sundays. And it's not possible. It's as if our law doesn't know how long it's been working weeks and how many hours it really counts, even during the week traders make overtimes that aren't paid, because the state has no interest in certain ministries to force it and that indeed, that punishments, sanction those who do. We've now found this really... The solution, so we shouldn't work on Sundays and then the unions get involved, so the Catholic Church that I respect as an institution is included, but it's not the only church in Croatia, regardless of what is the biggest, we are still a secular state,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] State... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] were also, or Saturdays to translate to Croatian, they were actually you... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] who have asked precisely for their rights to be protected and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Between the inga and that included, not as much as my colleague Cain says and the lawsuit of the great chains. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] First of all, I think she just decided to sue... churches in Croatia, precisely because they are also believers, regardless of whether there is 1%, 2%, but if we like to talk about recognition, about respecting minorities and that minorities are an integral part of our society then it would be just as good to take care of such elements and it seems to me that instead of us we are leading, if we are already fighting a battle for the rights of a working man in Croatia, then we are also leading in the wrong way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I was called to work in Kaufland, Osijek, because I'm supposed to be a socially insensitive man. Not one of my statements that I've made since 2003 when we passed this law in the meantime when this controversy really developed I never once said that a working man who doesn't have to, that I wasn't talking about his right to be extra paid, not paid, but extra paid, and that whoever knows for what reasons that day rejects family, religious, religious, or some others that in no way can be sanctioned, and that is, and nothing less than that fact is exactly, my smallness actually kept saying that in 2003, here in 2006. On the other hand, some times we do feel like we're living out of time and space. There are about 300,000 unemployed people in Croatia and some say they will not lose their jobs, some say jobs will be lost. You know, it doesn't matter to you when you hear that the 350 grand is still going to be a thousand or two less or more employees. It doesn't matter to me. That's where I am socially sensitive. Then, you know, I've always had weird unions defending one big trade chain. You know, these 200 square meters... it's not so random. One was created under one condition at a time, in one space and the other were created in a different way. And there should also have a little feeling you know what we're behind. I also yesterday was a round table that spoke, our party organized and which was just talking about this topic. All representatives, all sides, and the church, Mr. Vuleta, Mr. Batarello and representatives of large trade chains and representatives of small shops were invited. Both large and small said it would lead to reduced employment. It can't matter to us. And also, the kid said and the big one repeated and agreed that whoever doesn't pay or has a black ma worker has no fines 5, 10 or 15 thousand kuna or euro but closes that store so soon you'll see how you'll introduce order if you want. If there is indeed a large number of overtime hours that have not been paid, it is in the interest of the state to pay for it, that the state can also make its incomes, that it can receive them. So what does the inspection do? Well, it's not an inspection job. They realize there are few. Well, there's probably interest in that big sum that's really coming true this way and it's not worth paying ten, twenty, or I don't know even three hundred alleged inspectors that it's missing. Well, that's not much. It's a city-wide inspector. It's not a big deal. On the other hand, we're not going to talk about mixing pears and apples now, so let's say there's going to be again the professions that have to work, without which you can't imagine or are not comparable firefighters, hospitals, and that's because the fire is a fire, you can't say we're going to shut it down on Monday because we're not working on Sunday, so we're not even going to go to it. But Sunday doesn't have to be mystified. It's changed management, the whole series of habits has changed. I'm not saying that's good. My colleague Batarello told me it was a shopping culture, but that's a fact. She showed up. It started in America, those big pencils, people started going out very early, there actually doing one of their own, that Sunday was also a family day in that American way. I'm not saying it's a good thing, that it's with some maybe our traditional culture, or it doesn't have anything to do with it, but also yesterday someone said very well and how to, what to say about the anthropological phenomenon of our people who from tourist, especially tourist resorts, especially small places where five, six months of absolutely nothing is done and people have to earn exactly those two, three, four months when it's done. What exactly is their system of values and their psycho-social status now and what they think about it all. And now instead of actually creating assumptions that something is going on and going on as long as possible and doing what it is and doing it because it's being paid well, we've come up this way, so now we're going to flirt with a particular one in my opinion completely the demands that don't correspond exactly to modernity. Well, here are the HSP colleagues who called for a 56-year-old German law. 56th year, today is 2006. I think, meanwhile, that from 56 to 2006, it's only been 50 years, that some of it has changed. And just as I think it's also very important in chains, big trade chains. We let them in and they came in the way they came in. I remember in this place from this House there were the same great polemics of the 1990s whether it was good when they came in and how they got in, under which conditions. I also think they're too easy to get in. And then I thought. And then some of us had... in the way in which this problem of competition is experienced, i.e. quite easily, as it is under the globalization company, under the label of globalisation, under the label of competitiveness and pluralism, in fact, left a series of trade chains in a small door, and the same thing as competition, that they swept these small shops. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's a fact and that's what it's all about. But here today my colleague Markov tells me the same whole of Zagreb is covered by an Austrian company or chain saying "Don't buy furniture, soon ours" or something like this without a problem. And he says the same thing on the other hand, we still have doubts whether it is in line with the principles of the European Union that we are implementing the action "Bought Croatian". When the Croatian Chamber of Commerce invites me to take part in the action "Let's Buy Croatian" because I think that, both as a representative and as a citizen of this country, I should also support such actions, just as I must not oppose competition. The monopolies aren't good, but when you let the banks go, when you let the banks go, you couldn't help but stop these big trade chains from coming in. But these chains, too, here I'm going to speak from this point of view, have greatly changed the image of Osijek, certain hairstyles that many black holes in the city have actually brought their purpose, they've done it very pleasantly, they've solved a whole series of these communal infrastructures, traffic and problems, and in some ways something has happened, places have been closed, but on the other hand it's opened. What really bothers me in this whole story is that the wages are very low, that the conditions of business are very low, that what is allowed to work are adequately not paid, that there is this mass of unpaid work. But I'm saying, I'm afraid it can't be solved this way as it wants to be banned. On the other hand, we've prevented that outflow of our money from being in neighboring countries. Hungary, the Pechuh city has lived for a time from Osijek, yet we have prevented it. So we could follow other processes that you could see in Osijek registrations from neighbouring countries, which has just shown there and certain of these flows of money, people, values, goods that are not good in themselves. We could see in Subotica, in Sombor and Sombor the newspaper was coming out, so where were some of those chains of feelers advertised? But let's get back to our thesis. I don't doubt the noble intentions of a fellow HSP. And in the end, we started with a similar action to pay for work on Sundays, pay exactly that one. And a lot of people came to me whose kids aren't so small anymore, who actually want to work on Sundays. They actually, I polled them, tested them when I said what kind of statement to make. I went into those chains, talked to those people. Here we have 91% says you don't pay. But also 71% said they wanted to work on Sundays. But that's exactly why he has to be paid. And I just told everyone who came to open a chain in Osijek I said about the city not making... problems because we don't make laws, these national laws. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We will allow you to quickly, to turn that space into a comfortable space, but precisely this paying people, respecting people, their dignity is something that is, which must be the attitude of everyone, every man who really holds to the dignity of his fellow citizen and thus the worker. Pay up! There's actually a point. And what this mass of hours which is not paid to watch to get the right data so that the state also actually has an interest in getting into it, and not like this yesterday we hear that a lot of laws are actually like that in some mild contradiction. Something that's allowed to work for those who don't have, who don't issue bills, and that's those flower shops... Something else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's actually all showing up again that this one is allowed to say the life that would take place in a shadow. And yesterday I heard, one, when I hear something good, then I'm going to commend these some colleagues from the Syndicate said that on behalf of his party, Lesar had tabled a good, good proposal, a part of the proposal that was just about to become part of the collective agreement. As soon as something like that, the conjecture of these things means you never get into these, into that system and then they're still, then the story's going to be a little different. Let's be aware we live in the 21st century. We're a tourist country, we're a transition country. We are a country with a large number of unemployed and indeed unless there is an exact simulation that would lead to a new increase in the people of the unemployed. I don't think that's good, and I'm not saying there's no need for us to do some logical acrobatics and then actually kill an entire ox for half a kilo of meat. And the dignity of a working man must be first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60348	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60349	Thank you, Mr. President. I am correcting the quote of counterpart Kramaric, who said the amendments and additions to the Law on Trade have been passed by the HDZ-HSS coalition. No, I don't. The amendments and additions were adopted on the proposal of the HSS MPs' Club to the SDP coalition, the HNS, the LS, which best proves the electronic vote that Kramaric will find his name. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60350	But tossing, one reminder, Mrs. Zdenka Babic-Petricevic. And Mr. Kramaric is in violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60351	I don't know how to fix it, but how do I tell Mrs. Ljubici Lalic it's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60352	A warning about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Kramaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60353	But how do I fix this? How?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60354	You can't fix it. You need...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60355	How? ... How can he say something like this? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, I'm frustrated now, I'm shaken. [[Now buy her a drink and she'll be.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60356	You two! The club of representatives of HSS respected representative Ljubica Lalić. [[The intruders don't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60357	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, before us is actually the second attempt by the Croatian Party Representatives Club to institutionalise Sunday as a day off. The first attempt in the form of amendments and additions to the Labour Act was rejected by the parliamentary majority's will. Another attempt to protect myself in the form of the Labour Time Act is to protect those who work without direct need on Sundays, which are traders. Shop workers, which are mostly women do on Sundays, and most of them just every Sundays of the year. We at the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party support this proposal for the same reasons that we have been proposing amendments to the Law on Trade which restricts Sunday's work. The law was in effect for 4 months, and proved that there was no layoff of workers, there was no decline in traffic, there was no indignation of citizens. We note that as many as 86% of citizens supported the Law. Unfortunately, it's a great power of capital. It is stronger than the will of the highest legislative body in the Republic of Croatia and that is this Parliament. Considering that in the first half of 2004 the Government of the Republic of Croatia made a promise to the trade unions that it would solve the problem, given that it also made a promise to the Bishop's Conference after the adoption of the document "Sunday for Humane", the same promise to the Croatian public in Ludbreg was made by the president of the Croatian Parliament. It's a strange suggestion from the government that this bill be rejected. And now two years later, we can conclude that the promises are made lightly, they don't even cost a thing, and the merchants are going to do most of the women without a direct need to work just every Sunday while the vast majority of the citizens of Croatia and all of Europe are using that day as a week's vacation day. We belong to a culture and civilization that has chosen Sunday for decades as an unworkday, as a day dedicated to itself, to family, to meeting its own and family needs. The entire spectrum is of the value of the week off, and far-reaching are the consequences of endangering these values. If the Government of the Republic of Croatia were to truly represent a world-wide horizon for which it was clearly only declaratively, the small would have a law that would protect all those whose work on Sundays does not have a direct need. If we remember that every Sundays until 1995, or that all the shops were open until Saturday until 2:00 p.m., and they never worked on Sundays, then we will realize that the fight for freedom, for Sunday off, has very little to do with the worldview, but it has nothing to do with the protection of human rights and dignity, the affirmation of the family as a fundamental unit and the value of society. Unlike the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we in Croatia believe that Sundays as a week's vacation should be institutionalised. We understand that the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia guarantees the inalienable right of every employee on a weekly vacation. We understand that Sunday's Labour Act determines as the day of the week's vacation and Sunday's work is only allowed if the work is needed. But for us in Croatia, it is obvious that the law means nothing. Croatia has even concluded a contract with the Holy Table on which Sunday is a working day. The international contract is even above domestic law, but that doesn't mean anything to us either, because despite all this Sundays, there is more and more work done, and in particular there is a threat to the workers in the shops that work, although there is absolutely no need for this work, and especially not an obstacle. Obviously, we grow into a society that respects not only the law, but also the value of freedom of the week. The causes of direct consequences of lack of respect for values are reflected in the harsh violation of labour and other human rights as well as the applicable laws of the Republic of Croatia. The direct consequences of not respecting Sunday are to deny the right to a week's vacation, an inaccessible number of overtime hours, which threatens the possibility of employment in any case by a large number of unemployed. Only at the grocery store a year shows up so many overtime hours that more than 12,000 new jobs can be opened. It should be borne in mind that there is much more overtime that is not officially shown. Disrespect for the right to freedom Sunday and to seek to use Sunday for commercial purposes suggests that Croatian society and the centre of its profession are pushing man and his freedom, and he is enthroning material gain in his place. Man is not considered a person but a wheel in the process of weekly production and weekly consumption. The consciousness of man seeks to narrow down to economic interests. Man is denied time and space for other contents such as family and culture. A very strong contribution to this very tendency and effort is given by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the proposal to reject this law. Long-term support for this attitude will negatively affect society itself. We at the HSS are convinced that Sunday should be excluded from work week. Here's a reason why. In Europe where we seek the government's 1,000-year tradition of Sunday as the days of a week's vacation. Trade chains that oppose a working week in their home states don't work. It doesn't matter if a man is resting when others are resting or when others are working. The following European tradition of the 106 Convention on a week of rest, which we are signatories to, by the way, say: "The period of weekly vacation whenever possible is approved simultaneously by all interested persons in each company. The period of the weekly vacation must be determined whenever possible with the day of the week according to the traditions and customs of that country or county as a day of rest.". In Croatia, Sunday's tradition is a week's vacation day. It was also during a communist system that had little understanding of the religious needs of citizens. The requirements and need for a workless Sunday are not motivated by religious motives. The need for a workless Sunday stems from the anthropological, cultural, social and economic significance and value of Sunday as an unworkday. The value of freedom Sunday is closely linked to the perception of man. A man can only turn good in freedom. In order for man to develop himself as a person, to be able to think about his own life and determine himself, to develop himself in his multidimensionality and to stand up for human society, he needs space and time of freedom. Freedom is a spiritual need for a man who can be conditioned and restricted by various factors such as fatigue, physical and spiritual exhaustion. The importance of the biological need for rest should also be taken into account. The social consensus on this human need is contained in the working legislation governing the maximum number of daily and weekly working hours, and legally on a daily, weekly and annual vacation. Man is not only biological but also culture. And as such, he needs to use his rest not only for the restoration of physical but also for spiritual strengths, for they are inseparable in every creative activity. The vacation frees up space for life and that other dimension of man that exceeds interest and usefulness. He's a man and he's a community. Rest gives a man the opportunity to enlarge his sociality. He is not only an individual, but he is in his own right to be referred to others, interrelations in different forms of community. In order to make a quality relationship with others, he must first meet himself. The time and space framework for meeting with others and creatures, if you want to meet God, gives man rest. He is the choice of self-awareness, but also the establishment of relationships that are not limited to working relationships. And therefore man's life is inconclusive to production and consumption. Freedom Sunday is one of the most fundamental protests against bringing people's lives into production and consumption. The worker, his productivity cannot be motivated solely by higher wages, but by freeing and estimating his creative power. In order for a more effective man to live all dimensions of his humanity. In order for this to be possible, it is necessary to ensure a week's rest for the whole society. Traditionally, both in Europe and Croatia it is Sunday. Bringing man to a means of production and consumption in violation of the right and need of daily and weekly rest can endanger not only individuals and their families but also the very foundations of society and its political integration. In doing so, the damage will not only be sustained by social relations but also by economic productivity. It is unfortunate that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not understand this, but is recommending that this law be rejected by a man only by means of production and consumption. From the anthropological, cultural, social and economic aspect of freedom Sunday has a restorative value. For Christians, it has a strong religious meaning. For them Sundays is the mention of creation and existence and the celebration of the existence of man and all creation. Man is the crown of creatures, and Sunday is the seventh day of the crown of creation. With all aspects of the week's value as an unworkable day, it is evident that it is inevitable for a whole human relationship and as such a requirement is man's dignity. Furthermore, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia protects the family. She's a special society of protection. Along with numerous factors that are a prominent place in the service of family protection, the possibility of family association takes place at least one day a week, and the family has an irreplaceable socialization role. It again becomes a place of love and security, stability and peace. The way we take care of our family, that's how we'll have company. It is incomprehensible that the minister of the family did not recognize this law as a way of returning the role of the family in its society. Instead, we have a proposal to reject the law despite the knowledge that, on Sundays, the 40,000 families do not have the right to share and provide mutual support in the function of strengthening creativity as a driving force for every society. In its opinion, the government states that this proposal is identical to the proposal submitted to the Ministry of Economy by the Trade Union. This is not a lack of this proposal, and even more so is an advantage because it is acceptable for those to whom it applies. On the one hand, we have a union asking the authorities to help protect the rights of workers representing the other side of the ministry that says it does not need law. Who do we in this House represent and support? Those who say they are underpaid and expended and seek the protection of the state authorities or representatives of the ministry who say no, you do not need protection. The answer is clear. Those with which votes we are in this hall, who have given us the confidence that we will represent their interests. The government says, a fundamental remark on the proposed law that the matter of working time in activity will be regulated by the new Law on Trade, is not and can not be a reference to the law but to the need to pass laws. In addition, the opinion contains contradictions to itself, saying this issue will be regulated by the new Trade Act, which is expected to be referred to in the procedure by the end of 2005. On the other hand, the government says, we believe that an unsustainable legislative proposal is that special laws prescribe special working time for certain activities. So there's gonna be a solution, it's gonna be settled and then it doesn't have to be. All in all, 2005 is over, and there is no solution. This is how all the promises end and that of the Government of the Republic of Croatia are given to the union and the bishop's conference, as well as that of the president of the Croatian Parliament of the day to the Croatian public in Ludbreg. The Croatian Peasant Party club supports the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60358	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, a respected representative and Vice President Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60359	It is not, it is an incorrect assumption that the minister of the family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity does not support or, as you have said, does not understand this law, the proposed law of the HSP makes efforts for the new law, which will be proposed to the Croatian Parliament to indeed be such as to satisfy all the interesting words of the group of churches, workers and various social partners.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60360	Otherwise in Ludbreg, I didn't talk about it, but he spoke to the bishop present. ... You couldn't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's what Mr. Bishop was saying, and he didn't take it, he didn't file a bill, he just called it the same as the culture of death. ... He can't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I didn't file a legal proposal at the mass celebration. ... Well, they can't be given, yes. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] At 18.56, it was time to apply for a ten-minute hearing. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar on behalf of the HNS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60361	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party Club will not support this bill because we consider it unnecessary, quite bad, and we do not consider it to be the wrong promoter of the club HSP, but those who wrote the text of the law, or those authors of the text of the law that does not have a minute's work experience in trade, and then it is hard to believe in honesty and intent. Just as the Croatian People's Party Club did not vote in favour of Sunday's trade ban, because it did not foresee a ban on the work of restaurants, kiosks, florists, candlesticks, theatres, cinemas, cafes and so we will not support it this time. But it seems to me in the last year, as if we're discussing this topic over little green, Martians from that movie "E.T."Alf" as they were all called. But since I learned in Parliament the other day that the universe is heterosexual, then obviously I have to make a diagnosis that someone works on Sundays, but there are those who buy on Sundays. So if 90% of respondents are against Sunday's trade, if 90% of citizens are to ban Sunday's work, then I ask who buys it in Croatian stores on Sundays. Who are these people who make so many profits that employers are worth working on Sundays? Where did these people come from? Are these the people investors who have taken the obligation to comply with Croatian laws? Is this what investors who used to get benefits and more favourable conditions when coming to Croatia to invest in Croatia what of cities, counties and states in that propaganda attract foreign capital? Do we discuss Sunday's work, Sunday as a day that cannot be done or debated exclusively on a trade that cannot be done on Sundays, and we declare it an activity that is not necessarily necessary for Croatian citizens? If we are discussing Sunday as the day is not working, it is an unnecessary debate because it is already written in the Labour Act. But then let's discuss the work of doctors, waiters, chefs, drivers, conductors, hotelers, actors, journalists, electricians, nurses who also work on Sundays. Health care, social care, transport, cinema, theatres, soup kitchens, media, restaurants, cafes, power plant, ironworks, pharmacy, etc. You're not going to tell me that all the listed activities and professions are necessarily necessary, only the store is not. I do not accept that it is essential that the theatre be opened on Sundays or cinemas. Or where the candles are sold. Candles, please. Or flowers. The sale of flowers would be declared essential to the necessary activity, but not the sale of bread. So we're not discussing Sunday's work at all. It's not our goal to work on Sundays, it's something else where trade as an activity that last appeared on the market that started working on Sundays caused the problem. Because we know trains have been driving on Sundays since Austro-Hungarian. That the buses drive on Sundays we know the same thing. For hospitals to work on Sundays, it's so normal. That the power plants have been working on Sundays since we built them. What is in common with all these activities? They've got collective contracts, they've got chess, they've got four shifts. A long time since Austro-Hungarian and the Kingdom and NDH further. And then there were collective agreements for these activities and it was extremely good quality, I saw them. The trade, therefore, came as a new activity where those who had the activity and work on Sundays were not able to regulate themselves. And now there has been a proposal to call a referendum on whether or not Sundays are working. And what if someone suggests that we discuss a referendum whether we obey 10 of God’s commandments or not? If the referendum is positive for Sunday and for these 10 orders, then we will abolish confession because it is no longer necessary. Now we all obey all 10 commands of confession no longer necessary because there are no sinners. The labour law in Croatia, no matter what I think of it after all the failures it has experienced, has defined Sunday as the day of the week's vacation. And allowed an exception. What is lacking in the Law is that certain employers' rights to entrepreneurial activity are necessarily linked to collective bargaining and collective agreements. And the state now has an ideal chance, so the government does not limit the corporate freedom of employers to social partners who will deal with collective agreements and arrange it. And then he performs on the inspection scene. Namely, the Penal Code of the Republic of Croatia so similar to the provision that is now in Article 114, I, at the time, was an article 70, I think in 1983 I first started reading it. At that time, it was an article 70, with the provision that non-compliance with laws, labour rights and collective agreements is a criminal offence. ... No, fellow Jarnjak, the Penal Code of Croatian was not ZUR. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Penal Code, Penal Code for writing a criminal report against an employer who violated labour rights in Yugoslavia at the time. We proposed Mr. Bajic's report last year, last year we adopted here. In that great report of his, believe me, there is no procedure or application under Article 114. The penal code, or no record of it. One of the only criminal cases referred to in Article 114 concerning salaries, overtime, non-payment of Sundays, non-payment of pension contributions, non-payment of health contributions, non-payment of salaries, non-compliance with labour contracts, labour regulations and collective agreements. I want to believe we're about to get an annual report from the State Inspectorate. That we'll read there how many criminal charges have been filed by the State Inspectorate against employers after this incriminate non-payment Sunday. But I publicly call now, publicly, for the fifth time, the author of this Law to say how many criminal charges she filed against employers under Article 114. Penalty law. And I assure you that only one final verdict under the Penal Code on this subject would be sufficient, instead of all these discussions and aspirations to begin to work orderlyly. Someone mentioned Slovenia before. Slovenia had a referendum and the citizens of Slovenia decided and pleaded in the referendum. And you know what the score is? The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the trade unions sat down after the referendum and agreed that the problem of work will be determined by a national collective agreement Sunday, and that the Government takes over the development of a system of supervision, control to protect what employers and trade unions agree on. Someone mentions to Austria where there's really a law that Sunday's not supposed to work. But once again, someone only read the first paragraph of the Law. There's a sequel. Except gas stations and station. And when that law was passed 10 years ago,... And when that law was passed you know what happened? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At all the gas stations in Austria, at all the stations and airports, Bill has his own shops and shops. So what now? Only these halls that have been installed will be decommissioned and relocated to gas stations and stations. We'll have in the cities of five bus stations without a problem and we won't solve anything. And when it finally comes to the social science of the Catholic Church, there is an encyclical of the late Holy Father "the work of a man" in which he deals with work, labour relations and capital, the obligation of employers to work and government against employers and workers. But strangely, in the 90s, there was no debate in Croatia, there was no debate, there was no debate, at the time it was not the subject of labour legislation on 10 May 1995 when it was voted on by the Labour Act in this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60362	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations first, the respected representative Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60363	Thank you. A colleague, Lesar, said the inspection had failed, refused to file a single application that would be recorded in the State's Attorney's report. She couldn't stand it, that's the truth. She couldn't handle it because the inspection doesn't work on Sundays because there are no funds for the inspector's overtime in the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60364	Dear representative Zdenka Babić Petricevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60365	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. A colleague, Lesar, made many inaccuracies in the introduction, i.e. in the name of the Croatian People's Party club, and one of the inaccuracies was Austria when it stopped and banned work on Sundays, it is not true that there is one chain of trade on gas stations and it has not even opened its shops. Please, when you take examples of other countries, then they must be in the name of respect for others accurate. And here you are, it's not true that this Law is talked about something, those activities that are not covered by this Act, which, you mentioned to the waiters, you mentioned many other activities that have nothing to do with the trade chains and I'm telling you one more time. There are other inaccuracies I can list, but there seems to be no time, so with a warning, I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60366	And what's the warning now?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60367	With a warning, with danger.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60368	Well, you will when it hasn't even run out of time for, you've had time yet. Where did such fear of warning come from? I have to correct something because there's such a fear of warnings then. On behalf of the promoter, Honored Representative Tonči Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60369	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately there are no representatives of the Croatian government. This is not the first time the Croatian Parliament has discussed Sunday's work issue. In the previous assembly, such a similar law was proposed by colleagues from the HSS, and exactly the HNS club then did not support their proposal. Proposal for a law adopted by HSS with the support of colleagues from... The coalition did not live long for the Constitutional Court's ruling. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This Law that we are now offering is actually a law adjusted for the positions of the Constitutional Court and deals with precisely all the problems it has raised, which was referred to by the Constitutional Court, which is therefore all that counterpart Cain talked about, so the issue of working in the season, the issue of the work of small businesses, so small family shops, the issue of work of those who want and have to work on Sundays when it comes to tourist season. So, all those views that my colleague Cain was making here on behalf of the IDS Club don't actually stand. These are all fears that are gone because such provisions as my colleague Cain mentioned are not in our bill of law. A colleague named Lesar, speaking on behalf of the HNS Club here, mentioned the question that if anyone works on Sundays, someone buys. It's true, some people do shop on Sundays, but I really don't understand why someone would have to be able to buy a water heater or an axe on Sundays, I really don't know that. What is the purpose of enabling him to buy on this very Sundays, which is to force a saleswoman or seller to sit in a shopping chain on Sundays and allow a man to buy a chain saw, a hatchet, a watercot or a car fish. I really don't know why he can't do it all 18 hours later and buy it on Monday. So, we're not banning Sundays as a whole, we're just trying to reduce it to all the necessary cases. We also do not prevent the work of those who want to work during the tourist season and in all of our laws we follow an Austrian example. I find it really unclear what makes it possible for one of these same shopping chains in Austria to have one rule, and in Croatia there are other rules, even if it is an Austrian shopping chain. What is not clear to us, however, is the negative position of the Croatian Government on this proposal of the law, and that is precisely because the Croatian Government agreed to a proposal for a conclusion adopted by the Croatian Parliament, which was adopted by most votes last June when we discussed our proposal for amendments and addition of the Labour Act where we wanted to regulate work on Sundays. Then, if you remember, we also adopted the conclusion that the government has committed to draft its bill within 60 days. Unfortunately, more than 60 days have passed since then, and the government has unfortunately not yet done so. There was nothing more reasonable than the following conclusion of the Croatian Parliament to propose our bill to regulate this truly sensitive matter. Nowhere, but really nowhere, and we never said that any of our legal proposals were ideal. After all, as you can see, it's the bill of law in the first reading. We can say that this law is not good, we can even say that colleagues in the Parliament say that this law is not necessary, but then another important question is being imposed, and that is how will Croatia implement the signed and ratified agreement with the Holy See that regulates this particular issue? So, the issue of passing or not passing a law that regulates work on Sundays is not only a question of one of our whims, but it is a matter of implementing or not implementing an agreement with the Holy See. And that was why the former government insisted that such a law be passed. Therefore, not only was it the decision of the HSS to push the subject but it was, of course, a particular round of international obligations adopted by the Republic of Croatia by signing and ratifying the Agreement with the Holy See. So, we can talk about this our, I think colleagues in the Parliament can mock this bill like a colleague named Lesar did on behalf of the CNS, we can marginalize it. You can marginalize it, you can think of it as unnecessary. But then I ask you how you will implement this Agreement with the Holy Table. Our bill of law is one of the possible answers. We do not say it is ideal but we expected the Croatian government to understand a little bit more about this very sensitive problem. Instead, we got one more promise that eventually this will be resolved, that the government will solve it eventually, although we do not know when and that what the HSP is proposing is not good. But we didn't get a counterproposal but just a promise that one day it would be settled. This is not a responsible approach to this subject. Also, with indignity, I reject all the comparisons and comments of my fellow Lesar in terms of confession on Sundays because it is really unnecessary to question the religious customs and religious practice of any religion and all those who are Christian religions. So, of course today, maybe this topic will come to a referendum too. Perhaps we should have conducted this referendum long ago, and then all these doubts here would not exist, and this brings us to a whole other question as well as when Croatia calls a referendum on some really important topics. But even if there were a referendum or if there were an HSP, it would have the exact same point of view as what we've put out here. Let me remind you, we don't close sales during the tourist season, we don't close pharmacies other than leaving a part of those who are on duty, the rest are closed. We leave the kiosks, but on Sundays, they sell only newspapers and we also allow them to work part of the store at both the station and the ports, or at airports. So the basic message is that as far as trade is concerned, let those who really have to work and who sell food, who sell what families need to prepare their Sunday lunch, but let's not make things absurd and force them to do absolutely all the jobs because of what people are used to buying. There were similar comments probably in Austria when they passed their law but that law came to life, precisely because Austria signed a similar agreement with the Holy Table. So, I thank all the clubs and MPs who have given us support in the debate and I call on behalf of the motionors and other MPs to support us in the debate and of course when voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60370	Thank you. The HSU Club is a respected representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60371	Dear Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We will certainly not minimise the value of this proposal nor will we, with certain sarcasm or any other position that would reduce the value of this proposal, appear, but as always in Croatia, we will try seriously to discuss the content of this proposal. We are definitely in Croatia foreigners of pensioners are not those who opt out in advance and we want a problem together with all of you, with the promoter to look at all aspects and try to find a solution, whether in this step or in another. The problem with this assembly is, dear colleagues and colleagues, that we hear as much here as we want, interpret as we will and all just to justify our predetermined views and not professional but mostly political views. And that's not good. That's not good, because the promoter should be commended for the initiative. This is one of the problems in Croatian society, and this problem needs to be solved. Is this the way to solve it? We can talk about it, and it's good to talk. As far as the Croatian pensioners' parties are concerned, we believe that this law deals with the consequences, not with the causes or the cause, and definitely has the ambition to solve the problem quickly, which does not mean that such a solution would be the best solution to this problem. One is a fact. We definitely don't live in the 1960s today when regardless of the social system that was then in our former state of trade didn't work on Sundays. They didn't work. But we definitely don't live anymore, things have changed. There are jobs where work cannot be interrupted. So that's the technology. There are some civilizational achievements and some other quality of life that we need to respect and what we should seek out this discussion is how to find a measure in this story, how to find a measure and reconcile both religious feelings and economic calculations, and the rights of workers, and how to reach a desired and not an imposed solution. For us in Croatia, therefore, the party to the pensioners has no dilemma that this area should be regulated, but what we would like and how we would like it to be arranged is that this area is arranged through the highest level of social dialogue and social partnership between the state that has its own interests here, between employers with extremely strong interests and between trade unions representing workers who should protect their interests. But one thing I can't accept personally is that I'm a man who's a good part of his work life in the Union. I am now doing this honorable duty and cannot accept that we, that we are MPs or we are definitely not and must not be a substitution for the absence of social dialogue or a substitution for the weaknesses of any of the social partners. Whether they're weak unions or they're a weak employer, which is not or is a weak state because they can't control the situation with their instruments. We are definitely not that substitute, and things that need to be addressed through social dialogue cannot be solved by laws and political, political competition. To be clear, the second in Croatia is not all the same you know. I don't advertise anyone, but I have to mention. It's my duty. "Mercur" in Pula is closed on Sunday. At Mercury, you won't buy a toilet seat on Sundays. But you will. You know, if we started to analyze these stories, then the story would be a little different, it would look different, you know. I'm just saying that a little bit of a doubt worm puts all of you in your ears that it's not quite as simple as how it wants to be shown and solved here. Let me look back on this bill because he's here to discuss what needs to be discussed. Here there are or mentioned certain facts that do not stand, or something is stated which simply does not stand. Look here it says that pay is paid, increased pay on Sundays should be 85% above the price for the ordinary day according to the collective contract for the activity of trade. Gentlemen, I am obliged to warn you that since 1995 there has been no collective agreement for the activity of trade. There's something listed here that doesn't exist. It doesn't exist. Timeout, not renewed, no collective contract for trade activity. There are only two collective agreements in the state of Croatia that have been extended by the act of the Minister of Labour to the whole activity. It is a collective contract for the activity of construction and collective contract for the activity of the brick industry. These are the only two collective agreements that have been extended to the whole, to the whole of the activity. So we refer to something that doesn't exist. Which is inadmissible and even that was in the light of the law. Each one here says every Saturday's work. In the activity of the shop is the week deployed on 6 working days, not on 5 working days as in metal activities. These are important differences. Maybe it doesn't mean anything to someone who isn't directed. Saturday is a working day for the activity of trade. So let's not make a problem out of it. Then says the fact that the store works on Sundays only opened the way to an enormous and faceless exploitation of workers. That can't stand. This finding can't stand at all. You know who allowed it, opened the way to an enormous and faceless exploitation of workers? Unorganized society, priority in such an unorganized society whether by accident or on purpose, more deliberately than by accident. Priority of the interest of capital, not the priority of the legal and social state. They're the ones who allowed the enormous and faceless exploitation of the workers, not the work of the store, the store on Sundays. No, it's a drop in the sea. It's a drop in the sea. That there's a problem because our merchants have a lot of hours to do, and a little bit of paid for it, I agree. That they're not well-paid. And I agree with that. But someone let it happen. But there's no problem with the ban. The problem is ineffectiveness of the system. Why don't we order the labour inspectors to work on Sundays? If they worked and acted on Sundays, then they'd know who was doing it on Sundays. If they were to control whether the same workers work every Sunday, then they might as well act. But they don't work. Work inspectors don't work on Sundays. So I'm just asking if this is the right way? I'm opening up dilemmas. Next, look at the benefits of having unconscious employers. The employers aren't unconscious. Employers are absolutely aware and absolutely organized in the function of protecting their interest. There's no such thing as a finding. Furthermore, he says the derecognition of Sunday is like days, like the day of a week's vacation. And there, especially as an argument, is used to make women the most threatened. And I'll tell you my personal example from practice. I know people with whom I'm a good colleague and a friend and who we talk about a lot of things and then who for five years at a state-owned company called INA didn't use an annual vacation. They lost their right because they can't, an annual vacation can't be charged by law. They lost their right. You can use your vacation for last year, but those two or three years before you failed. So they've been working for five years and haven't used vacations. So they also do Sundays. Do they belong to this group? Yeah. Does anyone count how many Sundays they count? Then why point out that it's just a woman's problem. This is the problem of society. This problem is a lot of segments in the same, in the same activity. I'm asking the question of the law on, here's the reference to the holiday law. No one's responding, you know. I've been a witness for 15 years. I organized a celebration on May 1st. No one reacted when working for May 1st in Croatia. No one put it as a problem, like it wasn't a holiday. Like it's not a national holiday. That some holidays are more valuable and others are less valuable. That's not good in that story. Here it is quoted as a reason or as what goes by "in favor" of this Law is that this Law is similar to the proposal from Germany and that Germany has been in force since 1956, so two years before I was born is it? But look at Germany as it has been there since 1950, a very strong DGD, and it's the only strong union centre that has perhaps the strongest meth union of Ige Metal, which cheers and dresses in the labour market not only in Germany but also wider in Europe. And we have six union centres that can't even agree on a referendum on pension reform. So, what's the problem? They knew what they wanted in Germany and knew how to preserve and maintain their rights and did not need it, or they settled it in agreement and defined it through the law. However, they are moving further away from the law which is the basic skeleton through social dialogue, not only the amendments and additions to the law and the reach for legal solutions. Furthermore, we have seen a lot of objections in the law itself, specifically here we have in Article 5 once said that the time of duty of the pharmacy is equal to the time when the pharmacy is normally open. In the context of an article, there are contradictions. Or the newsstands can be opened on Sundays from 8am to 11pm and can only sell newspapers and magazines. If someone wants to buy a lighter and cigarettes or chewing gum or a wet handkerchief, does that mean he won't be able to buy it on Sunday or he'll have to go to a gas station? So these are our remarks of a fundamental nature, without reducing the need for discussion on this subject and without reducing the merits of the promoter to open these issues. And to finish, in Croatia, the pensioner party prefers the desired solutions, not the imposed solutions. If there's an arbiter in this country, someone's always going to complain. Either the church or the workers or the employers or the state itself will rebel or avoid part of the cake. Therefore, we are asking the Government of the Republic of Croatia to correct something set by counterpart Tonci Tadic. It seems to me, I'm not sure, but it seems to me that the government has come up with a proposal that has passed on to social partners for obvious. Whether it's within the 60 days or not, I don't know. But in the end, I would ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on behalf of the Croatian party of pensioners, to regulate this power by agreement of the social partners. But this bill for us, i.e. for the Croatian party of pensioners, is below the level we can accept and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60372	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60373	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm only correcting an incorrect quote when Mr. Hrelja said they weren't unwitting employers. I'm sorry, Mr. Hrelja, but I'm not aware. I mean unfair. And I think your honesty and conscience would require that you pay the workers according to your merits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60374	We're going to individual debates. Dear Representative Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60375	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. We've actually been having this debate for years, almost 3 years, whether we should be working on Sundays and shops or not. I'm really in the dilemma of whether it's wise by law to ban working on Sundays at the store, because we have had such an experience and it's as we know infamously failed, as soon as you introduce certain exceptions as proposed here by this law then there's no end to these exceptions. There's always a question of why one exception can't be another, and then it's just the way the law is divorced. If the shops are open then not only are shopkeepers working, then the bakers also work, then the transport workers, suppliers, etc. If they don't shop, they don't work either. So it's a far broader problem than just trade. Thus, this dilemma is banned by law on Sundays in trade or by strictly respecting existing laws. I'd remind you here that there's still a '57 there. the year of the 106th Convention on Weekly Trade in the Offices of the International Labour Organisation. So from '57. A year. According to the Convention, the time of the week of rest must, whenever possible, be consistent with the day of the week according to the traditions or customs of the country as a day of rest. And right on the trail of this convention are our laws. Not only today in Croatia, but they were also in that former system where the law found that Sunday was a week's vacation. Thus, our Constitution in Article 55 states that each employee has the right to earn money that can provide for himself and his family, which can provide themselves and family with a free and dignified life. That's what we're talking about. Here are the precisely these days that statistics have been made that 7000 of our workers receive wages below 1,000 kuna, which has been identified as some kind of poverty line. And that 66% of our workers receive a salary that is less than the average salary, and that average salary cannot satisfy the basic needs of the family. So that's the subject to be discussed. But in that same article, the Constitution says that the longest, longest working time is determined by law. We established it by the Labour Act where we defined the longest weekly working time of 40 hours a week. If we go to control that too then we will see not only in the store, not only in the catering, there is almost no activity in the economy in which this longest working time is adhered, and that everything else is treated as overtime and overwork as far as the law allows. And it is further said in that article that every employee has the right to a week's vacation on paid vacation and these rights cannot be waived. Even so, we have heard the example of colleagues, even that vacation can sometimes not be used. Today, our employers suggest that half an hour's rest not be paid but not paid. So these relations of labour and capital, workers and employers will become increasingly tightened and we really need to be more socially sensitive to such phenomena than they are today. Now, let us take an example that in socialism, trades didn't work on Sundays. But in all the activities, somewhere up until the mid-80s every Saturday and in many companies there was a third shift. So, the job ended on Sunday morning. So it's not exactly a tradition and tradition in Croatia that trade works on Sundays. This relationship between consumers' habits of buying on Sundays and trade hours is actually in some kind of mutual relationship. When trade opened on Sundays, citizens started shopping. When they were closed these few months, of course they had to do their own needs in another day and sure as hell that there would be no more traffic in stores if done. But I think we should take more care here of this unpaid work, of the inability to use our weekly and annual vacation, of controlling how much overtime there is and how much of the work that generates the gray economy is. We are aware that there is far more in Croatia than in some other countries, and the latest research has shown that there is the highest share of grey or black work along with construction in trade. I mean, if employers paid all the overtime and work on Sundays and the day of holidays and workdays, really some wouldn't have any economic bills to work on those days. Well, it actually seems to me that the ban actually means our peace of mind with the inability to prevent illegalities in the field of working relations. Here were the words that and control, or our inspectors should work on Sundays to control work on Sundays and how many workers they work and I don't think that's even necessary. It's very easy to control the number of employees and fund hours. If only working hours are taken, if the fund allows for the law is calculated, then 40 hours a week, then it is also very easy to determine which number of workers in a particular trading house must be permanently employed and if this cannot be determined through the payroll means that the law is not respected. However, in this sense we are also sanctioned for such employers, somehow I think that even as a legislator too much in some way when it is necessary to determine some kind of punishment, then we are here, rather using certain financial penalties than for example. to close for a certain time trade, that he can't work, surely that he'd take more care not to break the laws. And in the end, I would remind or read, in fact, I will quote one part of this little booklet "Sun for Man" where in the chapter "Troubles related to work on Sundays," I quote, "We can certainly classify among prominent weaknesses a culture of relations with laws, legal indetermination, ambiguity and their disrespect." To a large extent, this applies to us, the legislative body, to discuss more seriously, and to come more seriously to certain legislative proposals that can then have great consequences for our citizens and for those who have to apply them.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60376	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60377	Well, distinguished colleague Zgrebec, of course, that I was merely in my debate figuratively to which you looked, figuratively expressed that if necessary, the inspectors work on Sundays. Of course, all of this can be calculated and calculated by one analysis of work in these sales places, so how many employees, how much work is done a week, how much work can be done, how much overtime is paid, etc., whether replacement days are given due to work on Sundays, etc. Of course, that's all possible, but I'd like to point out another thing here by the time we've touched the inspections. You know, it's not enough for a labour inspection to do so and analyse and determine but it has to have certain executive powers to give someone a sentence to close a certain place unless the law is respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60378	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60379	Well, yeah, I was just trying to accente that we're in laws unsettled in that very sense. For example, our Law on the State Inspectorate regulates the extensive powers of the inspector when it comes to protection at work. But the fact that no pay is paid regularly, that time is broken, is why he has no authority under that law at all, nor can he control it. Therefore, it would be necessary to comb, or analyse, all these laws and supplement them in the sense that they are effective, that inspectors can do their job. This is how we criticize them for being subject to bribery, corruption, and I don't know what they're not, and at the same time we didn't provide mechanisms for them to do their job.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60380	Dear Representative Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60381	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The first question should be answered, what does the Proposer really want? On the one hand, he argues that this issue is resolved by a referendum, and on the other hand, he makes a proposal for a law, so he has a final solution. If you go to the referendum, so you don't know the referendum response, it can be like this and it can be like that, and if there's a legal solution then what we need a referendum for, then the Proposer is smarter than the people, he already knows in advance how it should be, so in this respect the Proposer is a little illogical, we don't know what he wants. This problem and this legislative proposal to be discussed with two aspects, first with the aspect of the law's urgency which the law wants to achieve, and then with regard to the appearance or content of the law. I'm going to devote less time to the first aspect, and that's what everyone's been talking about. How did this problem happen on Sundays at the store? It was created three or four years ago when the Catholic Church warned him and then this problem periodically returns to the Parliament and to the public whenever a party thinks it needs it and that it will benefit her in some period of support of the church, the church circles then makes such a proposal in the procedure. Before the church came forward with that problem, there were no initiators to solve this problem. Then that's where the reasons are made up, all the reasons are now listed, why it should be banned now, and one of the other reasons is whether the workers in the store are not paid for this overtime on Sundays please nice. You don't pay at the store. Well, it's a matter of inspection, or inspection, as we hear here, he can't control it at all because he doesn't work alone on Sundays. And then it's the government's issue, to give her the financial resources to control it. Or the inspection won't do it, then the state inspector needs to be replaced because then he doesn't know how to do his job. And this apology that this overtime in stores doesn't pay is ridiculous. Because imagine, tomorrow someone will come to me not to pay overtime in other activities at all. Then let's cancel the overtime and then it'll happen that someone doesn't pay the wages at all, let's cancel the work at all. By that logic, I think we're going absurd. The fact that someone does not pay overtime in stores is not and cannot be a logical reason to work in stores to be banned. That can't even be an apology. It then leads and shows that man does not know how to think logically. Now let's go to the text of the law. First of all, I'm surprised at the proposer. However, I had a little better opinion about the party who suggested this, that something like this besmirch and illiterate offer to the Parliament, this is offensive to the Parliament. counterpart Tadic, a colleague of Rosic, often warns about the lack of legal proposals coming from the government with the right, and now they offer something like this rather creepy. Something that the President of the Parliament shouldn't have referred to in the procedure at all. First and foremost, according to the provisions of our Rules of Procedure, which states that the text must be lectured. And that when he's gone, someone's gonna lecture the Parliament's service. This is a completely unlectured text, I'll prove it to you. Secondly, you have stated that, on behalf of the promoter, only Mr Miroslav Rožić will perform. He's not even here first. According to the Rules of Procedure, no one else can but who is listed. There you should not have allowed yourself to explain as the Proposer of the Law because you were careless to list all members of the Club, and there is no way that you could not have listed them. Then go on. Now let's go to text. Pharmacy. Look, as you've described the work of the pharmacy, that's how they do it now. They work on a working day, and they only work on Sundays and holidays, and it's always reported to work. But now, what about you? In addition to what they do, you are now prescribing what they should sell on Sundays, and you say, during duty, the pharmacy can only sell medicines and medicines for care of patients, food and care products for infants, hygiene supplies and disinfectants. Let's just say he can't sell cosmetics. Someone comes to the pharmacy on Sunday and wants a hand cream, and the saleswoman says no. HSP suggested, and Parliament passed the Law, I can't sell it to you. And he says it's on the shelf over there, so yeah, but I can't do it by law. That's what you suggested. You prescribe what this is allowed from the shelf to give to the buyer in the pharmacy on the day of duty. Then the newsstands can be open until 11 o'clock on Sundays and can only sell newspapers and magazines. And then really, they usually sell chocolate or water and now the kid comes in, wants to buy a cauldron, chocolate, says he can't. The law doesn't, it doesn't. If you want the paper, you can, and if you don't want chocolate and cocoa, you can't. Postage stamps. You need to send a letter, you can't buy a postmark even if it exists in a kiosk. ... So one nonsense I don't even know how you came up with. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Sundays and gas stations. On Sundays and holidays other than fuel, only spare parts for motor vehicles are allowed to be sold, if necessary for maintenance and repair of the same, and to sell travel supplies. So now what are travel supplies? And there at those gas stations, say, you have toys, so then you have wine often. And now a man goes to someone's house on Sunday, doesn't get ready on time, goes to buy... The flowers can be bought for the housekeeper, but for the host he'd like to buy a bottle of wine, which he can't buy at the gas station. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, it does, but you've got it on the shelf. Yeah, yeah, but he won't let HSP sell it to you. Now, you can't even sell gifts or souvenirs on those gas stations, but interestingly, it can be on passenger stations and passenger ports. So, why don't you explain to me how at the gas stations now, and in the passenger ports, yes and for what? Does that make any sense? And then we come up with real little sugar, and it's called other sales places, so the authorities don't think about it. And what other places are we talking about? Among other things, there are spas, spas, hospitals, fairs, cinemas, sports halls and so on, and please nice shrines. Now, there's nowhere to be sold on Sunday, but it can be sold in the sanctuary. I'm not talking about mass, I'm not talking about the basic priestly activity of spiritual life. It's me. This is about the store. It's about the trade within the sanctuary. So no one can, and the sanctuary can. So what is it with those who strive to put an end to it, so why not at least forbid them not to trade at least? So Christ drove the merchants out of the temple. They came back later, and here you are, leaving them here and there, even legalizing them. And you are referring to Christian teaching. So something is more illogical, and actually, this isn't just not illogical. This is actually hypocritical. This is, I'm sorry, actually hypocritical. Well, if only you had forbidden the trade in the shrines, one more man would say, "Come on, you're somewhat consistent, with all these illogicalities." It's tourist season. Yes, and please be careful of the market. Sales venues within the markets cannot be opened on Sundays. On Sundays, only fruits, vegetables, and flowers can be sold in the markets. And the butchers can't. And whoever didn't buy pizza on Saturday is gonna eat fruit, vegetables or flowers on Sunday. He can choose. And he can't get into the butcher shop, and it's all in the market. What you're going to end, you've outdone yourself on the back page. That's where you already started to drop words and letters. He's writing a record of his presence at work. Well, I guess it's about the presence at work. So he says, for a violation there was a provision of this law. Well, I guess any provision, but there's a word for it, you wrote it at speed. Then, a fine can only be imposed twice in case of repeated misdemeanor, three times... will be closed and prohibited by the employer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Literally as I read it, all and one sentence. That's what a third grade elementary school student would know how to break into two sentences and write it in writing. Veli, the decision on the schedule of duty will be made by the town and municipal chieftains to publish in public ballots. What public opinion? You have a plural. So not in one more than in more, and we don't know how much more. Two o'clock in five, all of them? The public report also said HRT, and then on HRT, I don't know when to read when the on-call pharmacy has to make a decision by December 31st, and then we'll be listening to Silvestrov for 15 minutes when the pharmacy works. Listen, this is not similar to sending something like this to the Croatian Parliament at all messy, unimaginative and unthinkable. That's not what I was hoping for from you. I didn't expect it from you because it was done that way, otherwise I wouldn't, but I'm counting on you to do this for purely political reasons. Don't you dare make a serious proposal worthy of this House, and forgive me, worthy of your party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60382	Replica, a respected representative of Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60383	I accept friendly criticism and I am giving myself self-critics, and I guarantee you, Mr. Stazić, that from today at 19:00 and 56 minutes to the end of the term, you will have the same debate on my part absolutely on everything you say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60384	Dear Representative Jagoda Martic. She's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60385	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs. The proposal for a law which has been sent to us in the parliamentary procedure by the Club of HSP Representatives proposes regulation of trade, especially on Sundays, which is certainly an area to be regulated by law. I agree that Sunday is a bad day, but I think that this problem should be regulated in full legal solutions. I think it is not good to adopt a special law on the regulation of working time only for the activity of trade, but to adopt a new Law on Trade within which this issue will be settled for the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. Besides trade, there are a number of other activities when work is necessary on Sundays for justified reasons, so I will list a couple, hospitals, public transport, radio, newspapers, police and many others. The matter of working time in trade activities should be well regulated and should be taken into account in particular to avoid possible uneven application of the law on the market of the Republic of Croatia. I believe that the proposed law does not solve the problem completely and that in some parts of it it is unspeakable and unimplementable. This is how Article 10 of this Law discusses work during the tourist season. Citation: "For the duration of the tourist season from 1.6. to 1.9. sales sites in tourist areas can be opened every Sunday from 8 to 13 hours.", finished quote. Since the duration of the tourist season is not defined in the Republic of Croatia, it is not appropriate that the legislator determines that the tourist season in the Republic of Croatia lasts from 1.6 to 1.9. In Articles 7 and 8 of the proposed law, the expression 'road supplies' is used, which is also not clearly defined. Under the term "road supplies" you can consider a wide range of products and the law in this sense is very unspeakable. It is also stated in Article 11 that only fruits, vegetables and flowers can be sold on Sundays, and we know that the product supply of the market is far wider, so this law in practice is inapplicable, and it is not applicable in the practice and provisions of Article 6 of the proposed Law that kiosks can sell only newspapers and magazines on Sundays. It doesn't make sense if they're already working not to sell all the other goods they offer from tobacco products, hygiene supplies, etc. I certainly advocate the introduction of order into the work of sales places. Once again, I say I support Sunday's work if it's adequately paid. Every Sunday's work has to be, even I would suggest that there be twice as many journals for those who work Sundays, and especially for those who have to work let's say even two to three weeks a month. In all of this, I am of the opinion that I personally cannot support this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60386	Thank you. Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60387	Thank you, Mr. President. I will not support the proposal for a law which was directed by the HSP club primarily because, first of all, I object to the ban and whether it is working on Sundays, and secondly perhaps even more so as to oppose the attempt in fact to solve in some way all the accumulated problems that exist in Croatia in the field of employment, but unfortunately not only in the field of one activity such as trade but in the area and many others. I'm not going to cut the law, some others have done it before me, but I have to say that I'm the law, the bill has a lot of illogicalness and in the good part it's uncomplicated, it opens up essentially through the ban on Sundays again opening up a series of exceptions that when you actually open up then of course the question is why it can't work, why can't it do some small trade, why this, why it? And so I don't intend to support this bill. As I was saying, perhaps the biggest reason I've ever heard of is because it seems to me that we're trying to protect someone's unhappiness, or to confirm someone's impotence. In fact, it cannot be protected by Sunday's ban on the nelados of competent services that are there to protect workers' rights stemming from a series of legal regulations that are in Croatia. Sunday doesn't pay. Why is it not paid, or why do not those who need to control it do so? Is Sunday not only paid in stores or not paid in other activities? Is overtime paid enough in Croatia? Although through a series of legal regulations, that work must be paid. Is this overtime not just paid at the store or not paid elsewhere? Who is it that should determine that the worker is working overtime without being paid overtime or that a worker or a worker is working on Sundays or other holidays without being paid for it? Trying to solve these prohibitions absolutely won't do. In addition, here today everyone mentions big malls, and very little is actually mentioned some small, much smaller shopping malls or maybe you live in an illusion, I no longer absolutely after the data that comes to me daily that in large shopping centres workers and workers are exploited, and that is, in the case of small smaller employers, they are not. After all, here's an example the other day when the owner of one of those little shops spit out a literally working woman for one mistake she made during working hours. I wonder very much, and I expect to see what happens now in the end. So, the fam about making use of and non-payment only in large malls, and in these others, I don't think it's absolutely standing. I also ask if if if we prohibit Sundays in the shops of workers or workers who are employed tomorrow at the store, employers will stop asking questions, whether one woman who will come to the ad tomorrow and wants to work as a shopkeeper, whether this law will make it impossible for the employer to ask if she is pregnant, whether she thinks she has children, ask her to assess how much she thinks about being sick if she already has two, three or more children. I'm not sure this law will solve it. Will this law solve the problem of meeting various questionnaires? I don't think so. The problem of not paying for work on Sundays, of not paying for overtime, of underpaid otherwise paid work in Croatia will not solve any prohibition of this type. Furthermore, labour inspections were mentioned here today as an inspection do not work on Sundays, inspections have not been paid overtime or no budget funds etc. I still have to remind you, I think we all remember that about two and a half years ago, so at the end of 2003, it was forbidden to work on Sundays with the same exceptions, duty was, etc. Well, I'm actually wondering, remember. At that time, all the presses, TVs were swarming with inspectors who ran across all possible cities and small places and controlled whether the shops worked on Sundays or whether they worked properly. Now I wonder how enough of them were. How they were then enough and today they are not enough to control whether they are or others who need to control whether these workers are paid on Sundays or whether overtime is paid. So I think maybe we should talk in that part, too. I therefore advocate that in Croatia, the legal rules we have are finally being followed. If they're not good enough then let's change them. Is this the Labour Act, is it unspoken in that section that talks about collective agreements? Let's change in that part, and not in this way try to solve the issues of non-payment of work in this case on Sundays in a way that prohibits this work. And I finally have to say it like this. This law, among other things, is motivated by the international treaty, as it says in the reasoning of the law, which Croatia signed with the Vatican, which prescribed that Sunday is an unworkable day and we have actually witnessed the last about half a year of very intense writing, the debate on the need for the protection of workers, especially workers and women, and not only from the mouth of politicians but also from church circles. At the same time, I ask you to protect the workers and the workers is manifested and should be principled in this and no, here I must say, to happen that from these church circles the other day, one woman got fired, a true part-time associate was fired because of her marital status from the same church that should basically be advocated for the protection of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60388	Replica, a respected representative, Vlado Jukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60389	Dear colleagues, I copy your statement that you do not wish to quote the law. Well, since I'd like to hear the arguments that you'd like as a representative of the club who proposed this text, I'd like to hear as well as the arguments that you'd like as a representative to subscribe to our bill. Namely, like all the bills proposed by the HSP in this House for ten, twelve years, this bill has its source. The source of this bill and that means the text of the authorship is in the Trade Union. It is a large organization that has taken this text very seriously and dozens of people who do not say hundreds of people who work in that union and have an interest in the adoption of this text. And that is why we will be very pleased in the HSP that, given that there is no media and there is no opportunity for the members of the trade union to hear about their proposals and demands, the representatives of the Croatian Parliament will have to make an obvious effort with little cost to discuss our colleagues and good and bad, and critical and reasoned in an integral form, that means that in the form of a phonogram we deliver to those who wrote the text of this law and we have proposed it here on their behalf, so you will probably have the opportunity to hear the replica and of them, of course, not here in the Croatian Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60390	The reply to the replica of the respected representative Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60391	My colleague Yukic, yes, I didn't go to dissection because some colleagues before me told me about the articles I wanted to talk about, and in that part I didn't want to repeat myself. And the fact that this bill came from the Trade Union and it was made by someone in the Trade Union doesn't mean that it has to be perfect and that it's good at all, even if it came from the trade union, whether it came from us representatives or if it comes from the government. Therefore, in addition to trade unions, they know very well my views regarding the position of workers and workers in trade and what I do not think these trade unions have done so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60392	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a Labour Time Act, Proposer of the Law of the Club of Representatives of the HSP. In accordance with the proposals made by the working bodies, the following conclusion is not accepted by the Proposal for a Working Time Act proposed by the Association of HSP Representatives for the reasons set out in the Government’s opinion to the reports of the working bodies. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 83 votes for, 7 abstentions and 12 against the accepted proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60395	Thank you, Mr. President! I can see that we are a little bit and probably this topic because I don't see too many young people are not so interesting, Francis forgives, it's not interesting to many, so I'm going to start a story about how it all started and why the HNS suggested these conclusions. It all started on 2 October 2002 because on that day, the Croatian Parliament obliged the government to adopt the National Programme for Youth Action and to join its implementation. In line with the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament, the State Institute for the Protection of Family, Motherhood and Youth with several months of delays, which has not actually produced a proposal for an operational plan for the implementation of measures under the National Programme for Youth Action. The proposal is addressed to the relevant authorities of the state administration for an obvious purpose. It was before the summer of 2003 and soon after that came parliamentary sources. Of course, at that time, the state authorities were not manifested and the proposed operational programme did not come into the adoption procedure by the previous government, and that is when everything cares. There's a new government. It's re-organized the ministries. The National Institute for the Protection of Family, Motherhood and Youth has been abolished, and an operational programme for the implementation of measures under the National Youth Action Programme has been lost. However, it is very interesting that, without an operational programme, money is spent on the implementation of the National Youth Action Programme. Available materials show that more than 48 million kunas were spent in 2004 alone. It should be noted here that in 2002 a total of 70 million kunas were also planned in the previous assembly. However, it is evident that only in the previous year means almost as much spent almost in one year and now the question is what should be done in this case by the most representative body of a state? Isn't it logical to look for an explanation for the records? Is it not logical to look for data on the realisation and cost of the implementation of the National Youth Action Programme? Is it not logical that the parliamentary representatives hear how and who will finally implement this programme? Obviously, that logic doesn't really work for us. Namely, the HNS Club has been asking the government for exactly that information in connection with the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament since 2 October 2002. There's nothing else we're looking for here but to get us information on how it's been spent? This money, and why has it not been approached, developed by the National Youth Action Programme? But on 8 September this year, the government proposes to the highest representative body of the Republic of Croatia to reject the conclusions of our club in which we are looking for these data. In the whole story, it is regrettable that those reports of the implementation of the National Youth Action Programme were heard by the participants of the conference held at Beolasica from 3 to 5 June 2005 as well as members of the Youth Council at the Ministry of the Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity at the meeting held on 12 September 2005. But we as Parliamentarians seem to have no right to such a thing. Therefore, I would like to read from this report which they made up at this consultation and which was given to members of the Youth Council, some of the allegations: The largest number of measure holders was not manifested on the proposal for an operational plan, so we were not able to forward the same to the Government for adoption. Since no operational plan has been adopted, there is no clear indication of implementation. The financial indicators of the implementation of certain measures cannot be taken as reliable. Some operators have not delivered the amount from the funds spent on the implementation of certain measures. It is not possible to specify the total amount of resources so far spent to implement the National Plan, the National Youth Action Programme. But if, on 12 September, at a meeting of the Youth Council at the Ministry of the Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, the cost of the implementation of the programme was not yet known, how did the Government's opinion on the proposal for the conclusion of the HNS Club's opinion, which came 4 days before the Youth Council's meeting, receive a very precise amount of 48 million 274 thousand 466 kuna and 38 June for the implementation of the National Programme in 2004? I would like to conclude that this example clearly confirms the lack of any coordination, systematicity and accountability by the Government or individual ministries. And our relationship with us representatives in the Croatian Parliament is humiliating and offensive.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60396	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HNS club, respected representative Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60397	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. We're talking about a subject that shouldn't be too obscenity in this a little bit of an obscenity. We are not talking about the National Programme of Action for birds, or anything like that, but about the National Youth Action Programme. What does the HNS Club want with the government? He's asking to file a report within six days of what they've done. She's asking to make an operational plan, so she can say she's spending money and how she's spent money so far? That's what we're looking for. It's so unusual, it's so weird. It's so inappropriate that the government of apriori refuses us. The government says to us, "No, we don't give a report about what we've been doing so far." The government tells us we won't give you any operational program, an operational plan. And the government says, "We won't tell where we spent the money." Now I'm not quite clear in this situation who chose whom? Is Parliament a Government or a Government of Parliament? Well, we didn't ask the government to buy us lunch or take us on a trip. We asked the government to file a report on what he's doing and where does he spend his money? And this is the function of this House, even though there are 15 representatives in it, 20 as long as it sits now. In any such situation, the Government would be obliged without discussion, without discussion to submit such a report. I expect if I write a question to the Minister with this theme and these words that within 30 days I will receive a concrete answer. Yeah, here's how much money we spent on that, that, that, that and that. We'll spend this on, on these other activities. But the government here is showing that it doesn't come to mind. However, such a demand is obviously on the part of parliamentarians wickedly, and the government will not support it and will not give a report. And the problems of young people believe or do not exist perfectly in this country. For example, the "From Fax to Work" program has been cancelled and only the "From School to the Stock Exchange" program continues to operate. Efficient. We tell about the drug program, the fight against drugs in schools, especially every time a minister of education is found here. However, in the budget, we are reducing the money for this purpose. It's the same with the violence in and out of school. These are topics that young people in this country certainly feel as their problem. But the government won't say anything about it. A few days ago last week, there was a bill proposed by counterpart Kramaric about giving tax relief for school costs. It's obviously about young people. Young people go to school. It concerned people who paid tuition out of their own pocket to adapt to a new millennium, a new Europe, a market nature, whatever. The government has rejected the proposal and does not think of giving tax relief to those who are willing to pay for their own education. I can imagine how the government would react if the proposal or any of the other representatives had said that parents were given tax relief for schooling children. Well, I guess it's in our best interest to have kids in school. I guess it's in our best interest that the percentage of those post-secondary educated be not 7 or 9 percent now, but 19 or 25 percent. The government may have it in its own operational plan, but it hides it and won't give it to us. And he won't and he won't. What such, such views of the Croatian government towards young people and young people's programmes, say that the government does not respect the population that we keep saying is increasingly apolitical, that it does not really want to be interested in or heard about these strange affairs that are under the name of politics. Such answers offer one imperceptibility and offer perspective to young people if they are brave enough to go somewhere else where their youth and needs will be respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60398	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60399	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would correct the incorrect allegations of fellow MPs when he said that the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not accept any conclusions or obligations yes. So I'll just tell you the conclusion she accepted, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sport as a working body, as a parent body. The conclusion is as follows: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia is tasked with providing information to the Croatian Parliament with a prepared proposal for an operational plan containing 40 priority measures also proposed by youth associations, as well as reports on the adoption and implementation of the National Programme for Youth Action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60400	Thank you. Finish your review. Does the Proposer want it? Yes, the esteemed representative, Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60401	Thank you, Mr. President. Just to answer, since I can see that there's no debate at all about this point. Let me just answer my colleague Franji Arapovic. It's true if the government has agreed to part of the operational plan, meaning of those 40 points, the question is, what about those other points? Why in this entire operational plan didn't the government agree to bring in everything we asked for here? It is in the first row to see how the funds are spent.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60402	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this point. The proposal for a conclusion on the implementation of the National Programme for Youth Action, the proposal for a conclusion, in accordance with the proposal of the Committee and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is not accepted by the following conclusion, the proposal for a conclusion on the implementation of the National Youth Action Programme proposed by the HNS Representatives' Club. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 72 votes for, 3 abstentions, 25 against, the proposed conclusion was not accepted. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, I am voting on the next conclusion, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is tasked with delivering to the Croatian Assembly the draft operational plan containing 40 priority measures and the Report on the implementation of the National Programme for Youth Action to date. The government has accepted this proposal as a conclusion. I am voting on this proposal for a conclusion. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 88 votes for, 3 abstentions, 4 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60405	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The relationship according to this conclusion of the Croatian People's Party's Club of Representatives during which the debate is being held, the fact that from our request to include this point in the agenda and the debate on this matter, and that means that the conclusion of the conclusion has been made for 8 months, it has been two things. The first is how the ruling majority treats health as a problem, as one of the most vital needs of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. But also as the Council of the Republic of Croatia refers to the rights of MPs to submit proposals and to ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia for information, opinions, reports, reform plans etc. So we submitted this proposal on 12 July 2005. Namely, he then entered the parliamentary procedure, and today it is March 23, 2006, so it has been more than 8 months. So this law has only now come to the agenda. Many of the things written as an explanation in this conclusion are no longer important because much has happened in the meantime. But the whole system of health reform, we don't have until today, and the Parliament hasn't had a debate in two years on a proposal for a health reform that's been talked about so much and that we all know is a vital need. Just as health care, i.e. health protection, is the vital need of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. This proposal also sets out the reasons why we believe that the Government of the Republic of Croatia should submit a full report to the Croatian Parliament on the state of health system in the Republic of Croatia. And our second proposal to conclude why the Government of the Republic of Croatia should submit to the Croatian Parliament a full plan for reforming the health system in the Republic of Croatia. Namely, the explanation from the time we wrote this, and now, of course, the explanation can be even richer, which means that things in health care are even worse than they were at the time is a very contradictory announcement by the Minister of Health, by the Prime Minister. The Minister of Health noted on several occasions the unsustainability of the existing model of health financing and proposed disbursement of public finances, and the Prime Minister expressed the view that the level of health care must be in line with the country's financial opportunities, but that there must be no reduction in the level of health care. These two claims are contradictory, because if the health system cannot bear the burden financially then it is necessary to try to find other solutions. Of course, all the months that have passed since our proposal have not happened. There was only a further deterioration in the availability of healthcare to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. This is how our proposal discusses the very difficult financial state of health, and the fact that it is worse today is not particularly claimed, the reports of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute also speak of it, and this is very clearly said by the Minister of Health in his statements, which, of course, tries to preserve the financial sustainability of healthcare under such circumstances, but of course no one wants to withdraw the move to lower the level of health care because of course, it is not politically popular. So according to the latest interview given by the health minister, hospitals according to suppliers are in debt of 3 billion and 200 million kuna, and the obligations of hospitals that are longer than 300 days, and we can only imagine how such debts of such a large system affect the overall economic situation, the regularity of payments, because we know that debts are multipled, i.e. non-payment and indifference, as well as the overall payment, i.e. the situation in the Croatian economy. The total obligations of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance are 4 billion kuna and, under such circumstances, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia, the ruling majority does not consider it necessary for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit a full report to the Parliament and to propose a plan on how to get out of this situation, a health reform plan. We are talking about such important issues, and today we have already had one such topic on the agenda of this House, it was the subject of education, we are talking about, by the way, when the occasion of some partial draft laws, and the whole debate on strategy, about development, about futures, about the foundations of the system being educational or health care, in this House over the past two years there has never been a question. So the difficult financial situation in health care is alarming, and that would already be sufficient reason for the health minister, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to show about it and say that he intends to resuscitate the debt, whether it will negatively affect the health care of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, like I said, it hasn't happened in eight months. Another very important situation that disturbs is the fact that from a series of laws adopted by the Croatian Parliament at a session on 17 July 2003, about 20 sublegislative acts were not passed, and we know that, of course, if no sublegal acts were adopted, that is information from that time, so from July of last year, that the laws cannot be changed, so the will of the Croatian Parliament is played out in such a way. If the Croatian Parliament has passed some laws, if it has prescribed that sublegal acts must be adopted in order for these laws to be implemented, these sublegal acts should be adopted. However, at that time, when we write this proposal, about 20 sublegal acts were not passed after I repeat the Law on Health Care, the Law on Medical Medicine, the Law on dental activity, the Law on Medical Biochemical Activity, the Law on Supposal, the Law on Pharmacy and the Law on Medicinal Products. So that fact for formal or only legal reasons, so the reasons for the legality would be enough for the government to manifest itself and the Croatian Parliament to call the Croatian Government to account, and this is, as I said, not only did not happen, but here only after eight months, we have the opportunity to discuss it at all at this time, of course when it no longer makes any special sense, because there is no media attention, and so much has happened in the meantime. The third thing we suggested our conclusion was to stop capital investments. In July 2003, the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided to invest around 7 billion kuna on a credit basis in the county hospitals' facilities until 2010, which planned construction, construction and reconstruction of Croatian hospitals, and that is precisely those hospitals that are the worst in this regard. It was a model that did not know political relations at the level of the county and almost all of our counties were interested in this model, and the model was that one part of the money for modernising hospitals was used by state-decentralised funds, that one part was given to the county, and somewhere in these arrangements, in contracts, or in letters of intent their participation decided to take over the cities in which these hospitals were located, such as one case from Zadar. Coming to power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, therefore the current Government of the Republic of Croatia has continued only those started projects that were already physically started, such as the Clinical Hospital of Zagreb and, of course, with a delay, the county hospitals in Čakovec, Zabok and Zadar, and all others have started talks where projects or preparations have already been made for projects, where the financial structure of these projects has already been agreed, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has mostly stopped. We asked for it to continue, of course. What happened? The government of the Republic of Croatia claimed that financing hospitals, their equipment, renovation, modernisation, construction and construction is illegal. We then proposed a law that absolutely makes it impossible for interpretation to be illegal and that law is the ruling majority in the Croatian Parliament to refuse. So it's still on the ground that it's against the law at least, of course, by our interpretation, and especially by the bill we've proposed, it's not against the law. And then it happened that the government had made the same or similar arrangements in several county hospitals alone. Thus, an arrangement was concluded with a county hospital in Pula where the government is obliged to co-finance the construction of the 350m kuna hospital, by the way, is not the county hospital in Pula that needs the state's greatest assistance. There are county hospitals in Virovitica, Vukovar, Vinkovci, which are probably given the gross national product per capita in these counties, more needs help from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This was obviously done with some political reasons, and then the same or similar agreement was concluded in connection with the financing of the construction of the hospital in Koprivnica. This means that according to some assessment by the government, according to its political priorities, this time it does not mind the alleged illegality of such an act, decides to finance the construction, upgrade and modernisation of some hospitals, and some hospitals are outside of that plan by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Which we believe is wrong even from the point of view of equality of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The county I spoke of must have been worse than these counties that received ex post assistance in financing the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and one of the fundamental principles of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is the equality of citizens with the exercise of their rights. And the right to health care is one of the fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And this way the government refers to the restoration and modernisation of county hospitals that fundamentally, the constitutional principle is not respected. Similarly, after the current government arrived in office, most of the directors, hospital directors, explained that it was bad business. These hospitals, therefore, according to what the Government of the Republic of Croatia claimed, i.e. the health minister at the time, were dealing with a loss and that was the reason for the removal of their directors. The new directors who were appointed were more or less in the same financial, i.e. business circumstances and these directors continued to produce losses, but there was no change. What's this about? It is that in fact, under the circumstances when the government determines the financial limits for hospitals, it is almost impossible to do business without creating a loss. But this time they were people who had politically responded to those who had set them up, so there was no shift. If the same rule applied in early 2004 applies today, then all these directors of all these hospitals should also be removed because they have also produced losses as did those before. Therefore, it speaks of a political shift, a shift motivated by political relations. Well, if that's the case, then let's make that clear. He is the rightful owner of hospitals and hospitals that finance the system to change, but then let it be clear that it is the fruit of political will, not the fruit of no hospital losses because it has been shown by who knows which times the directors are unable to control the debts that hospitals create, because hospitals are actually financially restricted by the Government of Croatia, and their obligations, services that must provide us with more or less the same. And in such circumstances, it is difficult to expect that a genius will appear there who, under such circumstances, will be able to secure well the business of county hospitals while, of course, maintaining a proper level of health care. This is of course why we should at least talk about it here in the Croatian Parliament, see what are the real motives for the replacement of these directors. And see if it's true that it's a fruit, a former shift of their inability to then, in the interest of the health system, shift and these new directors, which, of course, has not happened in recent years. Meanwhile, a few other things happened that had a negative impact on the level of health care. This is the introduction of an administrative fee that has hit just the ones that are most difficult, most difficult to get to health care and which need healthcare most. Then the elimination of travel costs, i.e. the reduction of treatment distances in hospitals where the cost of salaries is covered by the Republic of Croatia, the state or health system. There are no clear announcements in all of this, which is actually the purpose of health reform in the Republic of Croatia. Those days, therefore, only after eight months did the government consider a package of health laws. These laws would probably have been better if we had this agenda item at the debate at the Croatian Parliament. Unfortunately, this has not happened, but today it is not clear what it intends to do with the health system in the Republic of Croatia. So there were announcements about the allocation of supplementary health insurance from the Croatian Health Insurance Institute which, of course, can only have negative consequences. Because if additional health insurance becomes a market category, if it comes to the market then there is no talking about insurance providers taking care of health care. Their primary concern will, of course, be their profit, and that will make it even more difficult for the state of health to protect the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. There was also talk of the introduction of property censorship for health care, i.e. participation. That idea gave up, but that idea also tells us that there is no social sensitivity for those who put it out there. Property censorship as a limit for the participation of citizens in treatment participation is almost an unknown category in the world. Property as a subject of taxation, this is some kind of tax, known in the world only as the level of local tax, but never on property depends on the level of health care. Because citizens who have been put in a position to choose between whether to sell some of their properties or to provide health care will, of course, choose this second. Which will then further lead to the poverty of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. These are therefore all serious indicators of the situation in the health system of the Republic of Croatia, which was in July of 2005, today because of these measures that I was talking about, is even worse. Unfortunately, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not shown itself on this issue not only in terms of our proposal for a health conclusion, but we have not had a more serious debate in the Croatian Assembly on the state of health system not only in the past 8 months but since the start of the term of office of this Government of the Republic of Croatia. We consider this, of course, irresponsible and independent of what is being said today that the Government has prepared a package of health laws, and I repeat the conclusions we have proposed to the Croatian Parliament. The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes that within 30 days it is no longer 30 days but 270 days, it submits a full report to the Croatian Parliament on the state of health of the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, the Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes that within 30 days it is now 270 days to submit to the Croatian Assembly a full plan of reform of the health system of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60406	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60407	Thank you very much. My colleague Radoš listed a lot of things that could be corrected, I will look back on only one thing when he said that directors were removed not for reasons of debt but for political criteria, which is not true. Of the 14 clinical hospitals, i.e. clinical institutions in the government's authority, only 6 were replaced, therefore, and indicators showed that it was done correctly because in January 2004, the trend in hospital consumption was 25% higher than the year before. At the end of that year, consumption was 4% compared to the previous year in the 12th month, therefore five times lower consumption thanks to the fact that clinical hospitals were directly controlled by the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60408	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, distinguished representative Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60409	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I expected the promoter to withdraw this request because the entire package of health reform went to the government and it was addressed to this House of Commons, however, that it did not happen, but we still have the minutes to do so, and those of you who remained awake deny all these untruths that we heard five minutes ago after this pay phone. The reasons state a whole series of incorrect things that require that this request be rejected. What's this about? First of all, it moves with the conclusion that according to a number of indicators, the health system is in a major financial crisis. The financial crisis in health was when we took over this system two years ago and it was a serious financial crisis. Today, thank God it's not anymore. That's what objective indicators say. In fact, the total health debt when we took it into account according to the financial inspection report of the Ministry of Finance which combed the operations of HZZO and all institutions, so that total health debt was equally believed or not 9 billion 241 million kuna. Today’s total health debt is about 4 billion and 400 million kuna. Where's the difference? First of all, when we downloaded the system, we couldn't make any handovers because there was no central record. It was only later that the inspections, and we had already suspected and expressed in advance in public, that we found so many irregularly hiding health expenditures that it was for the Guinness Book of Records. I'll only mention a few items. For example. In the final account we inherited nowhere, it didn't say that the HZZO owed a billion 668 million kuna, saying round figures, banks, and that we have to pay what we did within six months. It is not written anywhere that 750 million kunas are alleged to have been beaten, and this is one of the most likely anti-legislative shops, one of the largest ever made in the history of the Croatian state, 750 million kunas of Pliva shares is sacrificed, literally sacrificed to reduce the debt by so much. In what way? Very perfidious. These shares from the pension fund were transferred to health without a government decision and without a legal basis for assessing the value of those shares. They sold Pliva to beat the debt to health care. What was the price of that stock in 2002 when it was done? The stock price was 50% below the price reached 2 months later on the stock exchange. So, so many illegal stores in one transaction are hard to imagine with a lot of imagination. Furthermore, it was not recorded that the government had paid beyond the Budget Act and past the items in three instances. Once 337 million, the second time 192 million, the third time 258 million, that she had beaten her debt to HZZO to companies, etc., all of this was determined by the Ministry of Finance's inspection and now we can say that the situation was actually worse than we thought. Why is the period of return, i.e. the payment of large-scale drugs longer today? Because in these two years we have recovered these hidden debts, but the total balance today is incomparably better and better quality, and therefore I responsibly argue that there are no financial crises in Croatian health care today, and there is no reason why when we reduce all income and expenditure to percentages, the proportion of income deficits in total revenues from 6,05% is reduced to 4.5% and that is acceptable and at that level health care can function and at that level will function. So much for finding out that it's some kind of serious financial crisis. Furthermore, it is said here in the proposal that in 2004, there was some kind of shift from the director. I was a minister at the time, so I can tell you that the director's shift wasn't like my colleague Bacic said. Of the 14 directors, it was replaced, but not 6 as he said, 5, because the director of the Clinical Hospital of the Sister of Mercy had resigned himself because of illegal procurement, so 5, and I will remind you that in 2000 25 directors were replaced, it was only for the sake of comparison of colleagues Radoš and other promoters. A second untruth here to refuse such a request and that these directors have been removed because they've been dealing with a loss. That's not true either. They've been replaced for illegal procurement. And that we were right showed the State Audit report that we discussed here several weeks ago, in which it was clearly stated that the director of the Mercur Clinical Hospital, contrary to the Public Procurement Act, had acquired faith or not of goods worth 90 million kuna, that the director of the Clinical Hospital of Split had acquired goods from over 50 million kuna, that the director of the Clinical Hospital of the Sisters of Mercy had acquired more than 70 million kunas, etc. In total, in that period, if you remember the State Audit report, the hospital directors obtained in 2003 contrary to the Law on Public Procurement of Goods and Services for a billion and 508 million kuna. Therefore, only those who committed the greatest violations under the Public Procurement Act were replaced. If today's directors no matter what political parties and commitments commit such a violation, I hope that our government will treat them the same way because there is no party membership in money treatment, but there is respect or disrespect for the law. The next reason to reject this request is that it has passed the deadline for the production of sublegal acts on the laws adopted in the previous term. Well, of course it passed because these laws are so bad that the current government had to change them from the ground up and that new package of laws comes before this House of Commons in a few days. It's been discussed in the government, and it's been adopted. So what was the point of bringing sublaws to a law that would be invalid in a month's time. Of course, it wouldn't make any sense, and that's why it was done. By stopping capital investments here, it was brought out and just before it was said so much inaccuracy that I have to say a few words about it as well. We have indeed found 7 billion planned investments in different institutions but we have not found what is important, an item in the budget from which we would do so. You remember we found a budget that was temporary from the previous government and we worked on it for three months. If there had been an item for this, we would have realized all these investments. How are we going to realise an investment whose items are not in the budget? Where are we gonna get the money from? From the budget of a neighboring country? Another reason why this could not be realised is that such a decision is contrary to Article 8. The Health Protection Act, which explicitly prohibits national budgets from investing in county hospitals except for the area of special state care. What we've done and the previous government isn't that we've secured just an investment in the most despondent hospital in the state, and that's the General Hospital of Vukovar. We've secured that investment, a very high investment, it's already under way but it's not going out of the state budget or out of county, it's going out of the Council of Europe. The next reason to say that this is about untruths is that in some cases the government has financed these county hospitals. Yes, only in those where the contract was realised and where the construction was already started. And in the state's attorney's inquiry which is less evil for the state we get the answer less evil is continuing investment. That's why there was a continued investment in Rebr, Zabok and Čakovec. But I'm asking what's gonna happen to Reb next year when he gets a 10 million-euro war to pay. In fact, this investment was made on the burden and on the responsibility of the Rebro Clinical Hospital itself, which is absolutely illegal and immoral because it is immoral to bring the hospital into a position that it cannot repay its debt and that it must therefore come into question its functioning. The next thing you know, it's absolutely untrue here, which is that this government has given up on a program to modernise Croatian hospitals. As you know, we have received under extremely favourable conditions loans from the Council of Europe and large investments are already under way from that source, therefore not from the source of the health budget or from the source of the budget of the institutions. These are investments in Vukovar, these are investments in a new transplant centre in Mercury and a whole series of others, and a large public private partnership programme is being prepared for investments in hospitals and hospitals where it is needed but not from the state budget, but from the principle of public private partnership, which this Parliament will be informed of when the time comes and when the proposal passes the government. From a whole series of false things further comes a chapter called the contradictory announcements of future moves. And there are now all kinds of statements from non-professional people, people outside the health care system in newspapers from any kind of debate, etc. No one from the government, for example, has ever claimed that, I quote, about 25% of the insurance companies are exempt from paying for participation. A dozen rows down for the same item says the proposing 60% of citizens are free from paying for participation. In one paragraph, two data are diametrically opposite, and everything is based on system ignorance. The fact is that 2.5 million were released and the fact is that they would remain free of participation even after the new adoption of the law package. What's frightening is that the system is politicized with the most sensitive groups of citizens, so for example children, pregnant women, psychiatric patients and patients with infectious diseases that don't pay for participation will be compromised. This government and I believe this assembly of parliament certainly wouldn't put these groups of insurance companies at risk, and it certainly wouldn't have occurred to anyone. The finding that health care is the biggest problem or one of the biggest problems in today's Croatia is also not responding to the truth, and I will immediately give the counterargument and it is a January 2006 survey poll by two thousand respondents, you have them online. The question is, what are the biggest problems in the country? In the first place, it was unemployment with 79% response, bribe and corruption 22%, pension 17%, each had the right to choose three, crime 14%, standard of life 12% responded that the biggest problem, economy 11%, small wages 11%, healthcare 9.6%. Health care is 10th in this survey among the problems of our citizens, not the first, as said here. It is in the very law that politicizing comes to the surface, and it is fortunate that this proposal came at this dark hour of the night, so that our media will not see the shameful falsehoods in this proposal. For all things, we accept the government's position not to discuss this, but we will discuss it very well when the next package comes on the agenda and that will be soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60410	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative. He's giving up correcting an incorrect quote. The club of representatives of the HNS, the respected representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60411	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President. In preparation for the debate on this item of the agenda, listing mail late in the evening e-mail came to me one message from a lady from Rijeka who is 11 years old and suffers from cerebral paralysis, going to school and saying the first time in 11 years of her life was visited by a social worker to see this sickly disabled child and after talking to her mother, she officially informed her that this child no longer has the right to a disability of 1000 kuna because she stays in school for more than 4 hours a day and that her right would be cut into 500 kuna because otherwise it would have to be 3 hours and 59 minutes for this right to end. And it says that he pays 120 kuna therapists out of his pocket every other day who comes into the house to try to train that child to live a normal life. It's what is human, emotional, human destiny with a name, last name and address. But after a respected colleague Hebrang and his appearance, I am even more surprised why the government did not accept these two proposals last July because the first proposal would allow the government to present all this information that he was reading to the official inventory they found. So the government came to Parliament and all these facts were presented because our first conclusion was that the government came with an analysis of the state of health it has. So we practically offered the Government to come before Parliament and all this says, documenting from primary hospital health care, public health services and all medical care if necessary. So all that makes the health care system in the Republic of Croatia is that it is centralised, decentralised and partially centralised. And the second thing we asked for was a package headed from the government to the Parliament. Did he leave today, yesterday, a week ago? I can't wait for him, and that was our goal, so he came. The second conclusion was to speed up the package. I hear he's done now. Great! The second objective was to discuss the package. In July of last year. In July, we waited to discuss two sentences of the proposal. Two sentences of a proposal that government both obviously made but not when we asked for it, but when the government was doing so. It's government law. That's what we've already realized the government is doing. The government took over 26 months ago. 27. And every time we start again, we start from the data of the found state. Every time we start with what happened during the former system? What happened during the former government? So we're listing the legal restrictions passed in 2003 but we're skipping the fact that the repair of that one mistake in the 2003 law was rejected in this House on the basis of the government's opinion. And that's what Mr. Hebrang is saying, that the state has the possibility of investing in health institutions that it's not the founder. So this government refused to change the law. The ex-wife was guilty when she proposed such a law. And this government is to blame for not accepting the proposal to change it so she left. If that was a former government mistake, then you were wrong to make a mistake and you were twice guilty. Because you knew it was a mistake and you're making a mistake. So you can't use that argument anymore. That's as much as we've made that proposal. Aware of the fact that this provision was not good. But the politics of a bunch of incorrect data and evil intentions was read by a colleague of Hebrang from our document. All right. Then I'm gonna go read the state of health? A package of services covered by compulsory insurance has been accurately established. A system for monitoring the overall costs per insurance undertaking has been introduced and thus has allowed to rationalise the financial resources... without reducing the level of health care. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Preventive health programs have been transferred back to primary without new financial charges and with the stimulation of primary health care. A mandatory dental protection and prevention programme on the burden of basic health insurance has been introduced in primary dental care. In the national hospital’s care, doctors are also allowed to continue to work additionally. The categorisation of hospitals according to which hospital financial plans are to be determined will be carried out. County hospitals are divided into local and regional and the number of employees is consistent with those categories. Hospitals are financed by paid services with a gradual transition to payment based on the main diagnosis. And there's been a cost-paying initiated by the patient and the departmental physician. Finally, the additional health standard is secured by stimulating and involving private ones in the supplementary insurance system. These 9 points of the state of Croatian health which I have now read to you are quotes from the Government programme presented to Parliament on 24 December 2003. It's a state of health in Croatian health. I know who's to blame for the state of Croatian health. I know him by name and last name, but I can't tell him because my colleagues at the Attorney's Club told me not to. I respect the decision and I won't say it. ... I respect the decisions of my club, Mr. President, and I will be honest with you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] When we talk about standardising hospitals and determining their budget limits, they call it restrictions. It's been a long debate, and I can't find any data on this package as much as it is that I'm waiting for the number of beds on a thousand residents, the standard of the hospital. Number of beds per thousand insurance, is it 3.2 or 3.5. Number of employees per bed, number of medical staff per bed. Is it 1 and a half? The average number of days in the hospital per patient, by departments, Internal, Infectology, Pediatrics, Neurology, Psychiatry, Surgery, Gynecology, ORL, Oftalmology, JIL, Anesthesiology and others. Is it a 6.7 average... Relations of medical and non-medical staff in the structure of employees 30:70, 60:40 or 40:60. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Expenses for specializations on the burden of hospitals, general hospitals. How many hospitals do specializations get a year? Because in Zagreb, we have extra people who don't want to go on the ground, and on the other hand, local hospitals can't get specializations on their staff, because someone has come up with such a plan. How much is the hospital's limit on the bed? What hospital? How do you spend hospital money? For example, at the General Hospital in Zadar, they spent 42,000 225 kuna per bed for medicines. And in Nasice 14,000 904. These patients in Nasice are being treated by Andolom. It's not the same category. Well, I did read that the hospital's categorization was carried out, so it's already done, right? And it's not? Pula General Hospital spends 7 thousand 160 kuna per bed on food, and 3 thousand 700 in Zadar. Now what? The ones in Pula are only bananas, and the ones in Zadar are soft. Yeah. That's where the SDP feeds so it cooks better. Great. You told your colleague Hebrang without politics in my boutique. Expendable medical material in Zadar 53,000, Sisak 26. Those in Sisak ferbante wash, so they're wrapped up again, I guess. Cleanup funds, in Pula thousand 800, in Sisak 511, in Pula 2 thousand 600, in Zadar a thousand 100. These guys have clibases, these computers I guess. Salaries, 216 grand in Nasice, in Zabok 108. So what's this? They're in one Einstein, and one's in the other. How many calculations are hospitals on the bed? Because you know the bed is the hospital's workplace. When empty doesn't bring it, empty bed is the worst. Especially if the universe is, like, heterosexual. The General Hospital Požega per bed has an annual, or limit of 169 thousand. ... My colleagues. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 169 grand. And the Chakovec, 142 thousand. So that's 27 grand per bed. The difference between 350 beds. So you can figure out the difference. So be the principal with 170 grand per bed and 140 per bed, full or empty. Whatever. So be successful and stay in office when you change power or be guilty of losing the hospital and being replaced by the loss of that same hospital. My colleague Hebrang certainly won't tell me that he's not becoming a health care system, at least at that low hillbilly parish level. Why are patient waiting lists getting longer? Why do people wait longer for X-rays of ordinary already, ultrasounds? C.T. and MRI, not to mention. Lists for ultrasound apparatus are created for waiting. Why are we throwing 3 billion kunas of unspent drugs? It's not my data, it's... billions of kuna a year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in 2003, we cut it down later. Why are we dumping 4 billion kunas of unscathed results and unsuspecting drugs? 2004. 2004 colleague Hebrang. And finally, by what criteria are specializations obtained? And finally, healthcare is the only activity that has entered partial decentralisation, in which there is a national collective contract signed by the health minister, and wages are within the hospital's limit. In the event that it is also decentralised where national collective agreements of gross wages and all the material rights of employees go directly from the treasury and have nothing to do with the monthly limit and resources of schools. When a collective contract increases the right, pay, supplement, medical supplement, sisterly to the budget, limit and mass, it does not affect because it is not tied to it. Only in the health care state determines material rights, limits leave the same and blames the directors that they can't deal with a hospital when they raise their salaries 3% and leave the limits at the clan level. And to be clear, the model of hospital financing, like today, a colleague of Hebrang started 1.7.7, you remember that, 1.7.7. Since then, the formula has been in effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60412	Thank you. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. First, respected representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60413	Thank you very much. I'll try to get as fast as I can to make it right. He says this government was wrong not to accept the Law on Investments in Hospitals. Well, she couldn't because the law was proposed after the state budget was adopted. Then how would you accept the law on the burden of that state budget? For next year, you were supposed to propose next year, so you didn't. The categorization of hospitals is in our plan either, it is true and in this package the law is implemented. So we have two more years of mandate to finish it. All the data quoted by a respected colleague on irregular business is that they are correct in the decimal, but they refer to 2003. This government definitely couldn't be responsible for that. As for Čakovec Hospital and its limit, see only the State Audit report for General Hospital Čakovec which has more pages than for all general hospitals combined. If they had done business by law, they would have had enough. It says here what they were doing with the cost plan, what they were doing with the public procurement, what they were doing with a million and 200 thousand advance payments, etc. If they'd been working by law, they'd have had enough. The waiting lists aren't getting any longer than they are getting shorter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60414	Dear Representative Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60415	Thank you very much. I'll only try two things to correct my colleague Lesar. He says the government determines salaries and limits, i.e. the increase in wages does not follow the limit. That's not true. Limits to hospitals are always adjusted for salary increases. That's how it's corrected. You'll look at the board reports and see that's true. And the other thing when he was talking about beds and bed expenses, he obviously doesn't understand enough of the system. Spending on a bed is not a benchmark for making limits, because it is important what is the diagnosis. Therefore, not only is the bed monitored, the number of patients and diagnosis monitored. Therefore, the same number of patients have different costs and that is quite different than you think.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60416	And Ivan Bagarić rectification of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60417	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague completely incorrectly linked the data that he presented here to the causes and consequences. I'd say that his data really looked more like me than if he'd found it in some unknown phone book or I don't know a plate of algorithmic. On the other hand, it is quite incorrect to say, I would say that it is even ambiguous to say that the bed in the hospital is a workplace because it can be interpreted differently. Therefore, it is a very incorrect statement and quite incorrect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60418	On behalf of the promoter, final review, respected representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60419	Mr. President, here's Mr. Hebrang, who is the only one here who has actually taken part in the debate, has repeated several times that it is false. I could also say that everything he said was false, because what I was saying on behalf of the club was true, and that's true, I'm also going to confirm some very concrete reports. The state of hospitals according to Croatian press from October of last year, and it is only hospitals in Zagreb and it is about a debt of 578 million kuna, and what ratio of debts that have been recovered and those who have made the new directors speak the following quote: Obligations of the Clinical Hospital Dubrava with 31st of July reached nearly 136 million kuna even though arriving at the principal post of doc. Milan Kujundzic stressed that by reducing consumption, it will reduce the debt at the time to about 45 million kuna. So he announced a debt reduction, and there was an increase in the debt of the hospital. Director of Mercury Clinical Hospital, Dr. Željko Vidas, at the beginning of his term of office of the hospital, was 52 million kuna, reported, so these are his statements that the hospital's current obligations by September reached 80,89 million kuna. So much for who's telling the truth here. But whoever was telling the truth and the truth would do well to have this debate in front of the Croatian public, contrary to what Mr. Hebrang said, and then the Croatian public might know whether it's an important topic or not and who's actually telling the truth here. It's a strange survey by Mr. Hebrang, that health care is at an unknowing 7th or 8th place at the top of the line. All the surveys I have seen, which talk about the health system, say it always falls under the first three priorities of citizens not only of the Republic of Croatia but probably of citizens everywhere in the world. As far as the data is concerned, the way Mr Hebrang constructs the data, the discussions that were held in the Croatian public, and he was the actor of these discussions in early 2004, so Mr Hebrang's debts he found as the then minister cited and payments from the 95th year, the loans he raised. Then also paid debts from the 12th month of 99th, amounting to 410m kuna, and in the debts he found, he cited agreements with the Countys that were just being prepared. The letters are intended by county hospitals to enter reconstructions without concluded credit arrangements, without contracts concluded that had some financial indicators, it was sufficient to include it in the debt of the health system. What technology is that, and who's telling the truth here, I think it's clear from this data that I've listed. One more thing about what Mr. Hebrang, unfortunately as the only debater here, said that the shifts of directors after the shift were not a fruit of bad business but were a fruit of illegal procurement. Well, it was his statement at the time that it was because of the incompetence of those directors. If it's true that there were illegal purchases, it's been two years, Mr. Hebrang, all the instruments of this country are in your hands. Why don't you process the mechanisms which are at your disposal by the executive authority, and you are part of the parliamentary majority? Last year's audit showed that about 3 billion kunas spent on the state budget, now I'm not just talking about a health care system, past public procurement. So if this is a general phenomenon in the Republic of Croatia, then it is for non-processing those if it is true of you, and what I am saying is true, it is the State Audit report, it is the responsibility of every government and every parliamentary majority, and then the one in which you participate. I really can't understand the assumption that the laws are bad, so I don't need to bring in sublaws. So the law was bad or good bound by every government. If the law is passed and if the law provides for the adoption of a sublegal act within a certain time period, that law should be adopted. So can't judge your judgment or anyone else that the law is bad, you, give you the right to disobey the law. Well, that's what no one in this country should take for granted. You say these laws are bad because new laws come in a month. Well, ever since then, from this moment on, this report is written to me, it's been nine months. So, for at least 9 months, the state of the health system was illegal because the laws in force were passed, they were bad or good, and of course we're not going to discuss it here now, and sublegal acts based on these laws have not been passed. Well, no one has the right, neither you as a representative, nor you as a minister, nor the Prime Minister to assess whether any law is bad or good, and then because it's supposed to be bad, they won't respect it. To have instruments to change that law, not by making it impossible to make regulations actually bring the situation into any system, and this is about health care, in an anti-zoonical situation. You're talking about investing in Vukovar Hospital. This is of course commendable because the hospital is located in areas of special state concern. Because every other investment by the state is according to what you said against the law. Meanwhile, two contracts have been made. One with a county hospital in Pula, in which a 500 million kuna contract was required by the state to participate with 350 million kuna. In the richest county of the Republic of Croatia, this county is naturally not in areas of special state concern. So it's not the exact information you're talking about, it's not the project that's been developed by someone else. And it's a fundamental disease of our entire system. If someone starts something and even when it's good, we won't spend it because someone else started it. And so you stopped already concluded agreements with a number of county hospitals that are much more needed state aid than the County Hospital in Pula. And you recently did the same for political reasons with the county hospital in Koprivnica. In addition, Koprivnica is not located in the area of special state concern. One more thing and I'll figure it out. You said these announcements of contradictory moves that I was talking about were done by unprofessional people. These are people who were authorized to make statements about the state of the health system, and one of such statements, which is that the separation of supplementary health insurance due because it creates gains, which is not his job. That's your statement, Mr. Hebrang. You, when you became Minister, said additional health insurance in the Croatian Health Insurance Institute system, produce profits. It is not his job and therefore needs to be excluded from the Croatian Health Insurance Institute system. Well, it's not crucial whether he produces profits or not. If it produces them, it is good, if it performs its basic function. That's your statement, and I think despite everything you've said here, which I don't think has been right for us as proposings, that you're not in that sense an unprofessional man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60420	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60421	I am correcting the incorrect allegations of the financial quoted by my colleague in the press, and I also forgive him. Because when it comes to financials, there's official records. Everything he listed is from the press. I listed the source of the survey that puts health care in 10th place, the colleague is not, and I am correcting that information. The debts we inherited have been calculated 7.3 billion, they are essentially 9.2 billion, and that's why we couldn't go with the reforms. Not that we didn't want what he said, so I'm making it right, too, but we've just made the balance final. Why didn't I process it? He tells me I haven't processed, I am a dear colleague. I handed it all over to the state's attorney, all those principals, because if I wasn't, I'd be a participant of that crime, based on his knowledge. It is not true that we have signed, that is, this government contract with Pula and Koprivnica. It's completely incorrect. The government has not committed itself to financing the state budget of either. The red light won't let me explain to him what the funding system is. He leaves the county budget and it will raise the loans and pay off the decentralised funds, which is by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60422	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Furthermore, the proposal for a conclusion that is bound by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit a full report on the state of the health system and the health reform plan. The proposed conclusion is the Club of Representatives of the CNS. In accordance with the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the following conclusion is not accepted. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? You'd better hold him down and hold him. With 71 votes for, 6 abstentions and 24 against, the proposed conclusion was adopted. It's visible, the camera was recorded by the one it refers to.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60425	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. It was an obscenity time, now even more obscenity in an hour and a half, however, it is obvious that such times of Croatian language can be discussed. That's what this is about. Back in the last century, Paul Stoos said that Croats tend to forget their language and become another nation. It was a time when some of our neighbors with whom we have worked very well today were forced to do so, today such things happen voluntarily, and that is worse. These two bill proposals actually speak of the same theme, the amendments, or amendments and additions to the law, of the same theme but do not apply to the same person. Namely, by proposing amendments to the Law on Croatian Citizenship, I propose introducing an institute for passing exams from Croatian language, knowledge of Croatian culture, legal order and customs for those foreigners who intend to become Croatian citizens, so they apply for enrolment in Croatian citizenship. Such an obligation exists now in the Law, it is true, that a stranger who wants to become a Croatian citizen should prove that he knows the Croatian language, the Latin letter and accepts Croatian culture and customs. However, this knowledge of language and culture is being questioned by a police officer now. That's what the situation looks like, that's what it looks like in practice. I had the opportunity to listen to one of my childhood friends who happened to be born in Nis and his father and mother are Serbians, but since he lived here in Zagreb in 5 years, he's graduated here, graduated, doctored, has an apartment in Kaptola, speaks Caucasian as well as I do, if not better. However, for 90 and a few years he was looking for a housekeeper and a police officer asked him if you know Croatian. The man said, "I know something a little bit," and he said, "Do you know who Shenoa is?"and the man said "you know, I graduated here and doctored in Zagreb, so I guess I know," "I didn't ask you that." If such a situation should be avoided, such a situation can be very easily avoided. At the Faculty of Philosophy in Zagreb, there is an institution, i.e. a department that deals with the fact that students from the countries who come here learn Croatian language so that they can normally follow the classes at Croatian universities. Such an institution could carry out these tests if no police had to do so. So that's the essence of this proposal. The government has shown itself about this proposal and said it accepts the initiative, but of course the government is working on a whole and comprehensive law that will cover everything and that initiative. I hope that this law will soon come into Parliament's procedure and that this part of my initiative will be incorporated into the law. I think it's actually hard to find arguments. The second law, the Law on, in fact, the Act on Foreigners introduces this same institute for foreigners who have stayed in the Republic of Croatia for more than a year and require a working or business permit for more than a year. In fact, to actually understand what this is about, we need to know that language is not just a means of communication. Language is also a way of thinking, a language gives a person who is a speaker of that language and a particular term for thinking, and a person cannot think outside his own language and cannot think outside the culture of the language that is being used. The basic idea of giving me this proposal came to me, and today I was visiting the same company, one big Croatian company where complete management except for two complete administrations, and I call them management here, and that's the same disease already, the entire administration speaks English, except for two people of technical profession who are domestic. With workers, this administration is agreed by translators, that the municipal administration with which it is with a very good administration is also agreed through translators. I think it's humiliating both for that environment and for those workers and for the whole country. It is a colonial relationship that these top managers who come to us to train the Croatian economy for not knowing any competitive struggle on the world market, to help us, to do something for us to really have an intention and to appreciate us as a society and as a state they would already make quite an effort before coming here to at least... learn our language and sort of fit into this... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As I was preparing the proposal for these additions, my colleagues objected that in this way other experts from the world are actually making it impossible for them to come here to sell us some senses and tell us something nice, to make something for us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As a result, I have adjusted the original proposal a little bit and set a deadline of one year after which stay in Croatia, the foreigner who wants an extended licence should pass the exam from at least the odimentary knowledge of Croatian language and Croatian culture. Namely, if a professor comes a semester or a year here to teach at the university of course he should not be harassed to learn Croatian, if a footballer decides to play a season in "Dinama" and of course he should not be harassed with it, but if someone here wants to make his career, if he wants to earn bread here, so he stays for two, three, five years, ten years, and not take citizenship, I don't see what a normal and honest man might have against that state, that society where he serves his bread in some way and forces the law to learn the language of that environment. That's one reason. The second reason is on Kaiserica, behind the Zagreb Fair. I don't know if you've been walking there lately. There, very, very few Croatian words are heard very little. We were horrified when we looked at images from Paris in which settlers who didn't acculize, who live in their world even though they came to Paris to fall cars in Paris, their children protesting against something, there are not quite sure what, even less why, but protesting. They obviously didn't fit in with that company. Why should we allow ourselves 10, 20 or 30 years from now to happen to China City that we're not going to... To dare come in, to have another neighborhood in which some other settlers will be. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are today a country where labour prices are almost double than in the countries of Eastern Europe. When we open the borders, when we enter the European Union, these people will come here to work, they will be paid better here than they are there. The idea was let's not make such a situation, let's try to help ourselves now while it's time, while it's in proportions that can be controlled and we bring regulations by which these people will still be encouraged by the state, by society, by the authorities to fit in better in the environment in which they come to live. This part, i.e. this proposal the government completely refuses, i have to say that i didn't realize with which arguments, it says something in the explanation i didn't understand, maybe it's so cleverly written that i didn't understand, but the long-term resonation i'm pretty sure it doesn't. By the way, I would like to say this first law where people who come into citizenship are taking the exam before an authorised institution, is applied in a number of European countries including Slovenia, for example, which has a special parliamentary commission before which the exam is passed. Well, maybe that's too much. This other way of treating foreigners seeking work and business permits also exists in some countries, in some Baltic countries and in some European countries. I don't know what severity it applies with but I'm quite sure that the last decade of all these countries have learned to be very, very careful in such situations and to do everything they can to make the settlers who come accultulate, not assimilate, it's unnecessary, of course, but to accultulate in such a way that they can survive in their new homeland to their satisfaction, to the satisfaction of their family and to the satisfaction of the environment in which they came. For this reason, I appeal to you to accept these proposals of the law in the first reading and to allow once in a wide discussion, perhaps at another time when someone else will be able to hear it, fix them, correct them or do whatever it takes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60426	Thank you. The committee's reporters? They're not interested. I'm opening a debate. HSP representative club respected representative Ruža Tomasic. She's gone. A representative club loses its right to a word. HDZ representative club respected Zdenka Babic-Petricevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60427	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! The Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club, a colleague of Vuljanic, does not support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian Citizenship for the following reasons. The applicant shall propose an amendment to Article 8. The law on Croatian citizenship under which assumptions Croatian citizenship can be acquired. In addition to the condition that a foreigner can obtain Croatian citizenship by birth if he has turned 18 years of life and has not been deprived of his business ability, then that he has been released from foreign citizenship or has submitted evidence that he will receive his leave if he is admitted to Croatian citizenship, that he has had a registered stay for at least five years uninterrupted in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and that the assumptions you spoke of are certain and that you are proposing to know the Croatian language and Latin script as it is, whether or not, from his behaviour it can be concluded that the legal order and customs in the Republic of Croatia and that he accepts Croatian culture. It is absolutely necessary to agree with the fact that the real assumption of knowledge of Croatian language and Latin script should be the basis for acquiring Croatian citizenship in addition to other conditions, of course with the other above assumptions and that the way to check knowledge of Croatian language and Latin script should be elaborated precisely by law. However, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has launched an initiative within the Ministry of the Interior to draw up a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Croatian Citizenship, which would implement comprehensive amendments to the law itself and fully comply with the legal acquis of the European Union, normally in the national interest of the Republic of Croatia first. In this connection, a working group has been formed that would normably improve the solutions of the existing law in the light of the proposal for a migration policy strategy that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has drawn up and forwarded to the Croatian Parliament. The inaccuracy referred to in Article 8(4) of the Law in question and, in the sense of the method of verifying the knowledge of the Croatian language and Latin script in that sense, will definitely be removed by this proposal of a law which will undoubtedly support the applicant's intensification to make the same regulation clearer, more precise and to remove all the disputed situations and abuses which are witnessed in the process of receiving Croatian citizenship of persons who are not Croatian citizens. Secondly, the HDZ Representatives Club does not support your second draft law supplementing the Foreign Law for the following reasons. Those amendments shall be intervened in the provision of Articles 89 and 97. Foreign law passed in July 2003. In particular, the applicant wishes to regulate in more detail the application of a work permit to foreigners or to issue or to obtain a business permit issued to a foreigner who has a registered trade and with a craftsman equalises the activity or free interest he or she conducts and works in a registered company or in a legal person in which he or she has a majority stake as well as for foreigners providing services on behalf of an foreign employer and fulfils the other conditions for granting a temporary stay authorisation. The flavor supplement comes down to the following. Passing an appropriate exam from the knowledge of Croatian language and culture. Fullness is conditioned by passing examinations from the knowledge of Croatian language and culture but certainly before the authorised institution. In the light of the proposed future changes, the authorised institution shall be considered an organisational unit of a higher school institution authorised under the applicable rules for the equal education of foreign students and other foreigners or other institution authorised by the competent authority of the central state. Foreign nationals who request a business visa for a period of more than one year when it comes to the issue of business permits shall be subject to the obligation to apply the certificate of application of the Croatian language and culture examination in the manner mentioned above. Not only is it possible for the Ministry of the Interior to draw up a draft law on the completion of the Law on Foreigners, which will develop these legal institutes, to point out, among other things, that in the parliamentary procedure, the proposal for a migration policy strategy provides for the commitment of foreigners who have a permanent stay and persons who are in the process of acquiring Croatian citizenship to learn Croatian language and knowledge of Croatian history and culture. In line with the national programme of the Republic of Croatia to join the European Union, the obligation to draw up a final proposal for a law on exposure is for the fourth quarter of 2006 when concrete legal solutions relating to work and business permit will be specified. By supporting your intensities, Mr. colleagues, concrete proposed amendments are not accepted and because, in the context of future legislative changes, not only addressed problems will be regulated, but also the way in which foreigners enter, stay and work in the Republic of Croatia under the obligation to coordinate these legal solutions with the acquis of the European Union. You have also talked about the problem facing all EU countries, future member states and transition countries. I hope that we will be together by the end of this year in just a few months, perhaps, to discuss a problem that not only is we a great country, but a small number of people face such problems and such problems are facing countries today, such as the Federal Republic of Germany. You also listed France, we can also list other European Union countries in the hope that one day and soon we will adopt a migration policy strategy, then a strategy that is very important for the demographic development of the Republic of Croatia and, according to one strategy and addressed laws, we will do what the Croatian future or future Croatian generations expect of us to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60428	Thank you. The HNS Club is a respected representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60429	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. It seems that my esteemed colleague, Mr Vuljanic, has struck the thread but not the point because if both the thread and the being were affected, the government would give a positive opinion because the thread is good in the obvious, and the point is guilty. And in a few months, we'll get the government thread and we'll all be happy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60430	Maybe the ghost was hit?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60431	Ghost? So do the laws have ghosts? Okay. That's why judgments are so different when judged by ghosts. When it comes to the acquisition of citizenship and the need to know culture and language. In fact, according to my data, the data I received from the MUP from 1993 to the month before, two MUPs received and solved a million and 200 thousand requests for the issue of citizenship. How many foreigners were entitled to citizenship by marriage? At birth? Or some other ground I don't know. But let's make it 20% of it. You really don't think it would be necessary for the question of language and culture skills checks to be done by the Croatian institutions that we have. Which we do not need to establish, especially train and prepare for the job, but simply give them the authority to do with an expert aspket what police officers are doing so far. Do we really think that a police officer, in the context of his education, is going through the education of culture and language checks for foreigners who come to Croatia and seek citizenship? If not because of what my colleague Vuljanic suggested. In order to comply with our laws with European norms, we will have to do so. Mrs. Babic, you're right. That's what we're gonna have to do. It is necessary for Croatia. Now the problem is that the proposer is guilty. The government obviously accepted the idea, so the spirit of the law would be different. As far as I'm concerned, yes, and this information. According to the books of citizenship, which, by the way, is spoken under the Law on Citizenship, which was completed in 1992 by far in 1992, these books lead to the non-existent municipal parent offices that ceased to exist in 1993 when the new territorial structure in Croatia was made and the mothership from the then municipalities passed to the offices of the state offices. About 8 million people are listed. Formalizing Croatia has 8 million citizens. These are the data I personally received from the Office of State Administration in County a month ago. They themselves note that they are not sure of their accuracy because there are still a large number of dead, displaced, displaced or unknown statuses inside. As regards the second law, where foreigners who request a work permit in Croatia should also prove after a year that they know Croatian language and culture allow a few remarks. It's also tied to a work permit. Getting a work permit. A Croatian citizen abroad will not get a job unless he has a work permit. A foreigner in Croatia can only be legally employed if he gets a work permit. Foreigners in Croatia are also employed in different jobs. Of those on roads in utility services, companies, corporations and the state sector. And state-owned companies. And they don't speak Croatian. Because they don't need to know and I can get a work permit. It's usually rare where you can get a work permit after a year. They do not need to know Croatian regulations either because they cannot read them because they do not know Croatian. They don't even have to know Croatian laws because they can't read them. They do not have to know at all the signs of ban and warnings written in Croatian in case of elementary disasters, earthquakes, do not give God of war, alarms. They don't have to do anything because Croatians don't know and don't need to know by our regulations. Those of the workers in the companies in which they operate have the right to request that they learn English, Italian, Chinese, Japanese, Hong Kong whatever you want, Hungarian. And that they should speak to them in their language, because they are dependent on them, workers of them, and not on them. About the workers. Look at our daily newspapers and ads that are being published. List of daily newspapers and ads that are published to fill jobs, grant scholarships, application programs and anything else. Try to find ads in Croatian. So count those in Croatian and foreign languages. It's almost gone, except when the state's calling the competitions. And only in the National Journal is it published in Croatian. Everything else is in English. Even when cleaning women are employed in English, they publish ads. Because there is no need for a Croatian company in which a foreigner is in charge of Croatian in Croatian press, to publish anything in Croatian. Because there's no obligation on that. Labour contracts are concluded in English. And when they come to court, then we need translators to translate labor contracts for our judges. Because it does not say in the Labour Act that the contract must be concluded in Croatian, but that it must be in writing, but not in Croatian. For the past 16 years, Croatia has been a battle for its sovereignty, territorial, border guard, statehood. Croatia is now fighting for its new sovereignty, for a new kind of fight, for preserving Croatian sovereignty and for the energy system of mining wealth, mineral wealth, but I also think about language and language. You were angry with the language of the public media and Croatian broadcasting that more and more foreign words, that public television began speaking in an incomprehensible language, that the textbooks in Croatian schools use expressions that children do not understand, foreign words. Moving, muving, hunting, manning, everything we've got. Maning president, maning, hunting, mobing. But now that these foreigners are coming and getting work permits in Croatia, you say they don't have to know Croatian. And why is that? Then why are we surprised? So who owns the largest media in Croatia? Who's sitting in media management? Why do they write and speak in a foreign language? Because they don't have to know Croatian. And I'll end my support with one true event, although you'll think it's a joke, but it's true. When I was in America, there was an affair, a U.S. citizen sued the New York subway because her husband was killed. Namely, he did something that said in 16 languages not to be made. In 16 languages there were warning panels that he could not do it, he was Korean, and in Korean it did not say that he should not wet on the rails of the subway, because they were under tension, and he was wet and fried. And the court found the railroads guilty because in Korean, they didn't write a warning that they couldn't do it. Let us not wait for in Zagreb to write in 25 languages warnings of such nature and then wonder why it is. The question of Croatia's new sovereignty is no longer borders, no territories, no war, no east, no such things where we must preserve what we are. And those who come to us must accept what they are. And it's not anti-European. And it's not anti-European. Look at the experiences of others, the laws of other countries that have it. That's why these two proposals came. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60432	It used to say in trains and trams, "Don't spit out the window, don't spit on the floor." Now the same thing that fried the Korean, which the devil needs to write that moment, that the rails don't need to work, on the electric wires, cool the electrical wires.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60433	Well, there was a problem with what hit the tracks.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-23-0.u60434	Final review. There's no need. The debate is closed. Resume tomorrow at 10 o'clock. At 10 pm with the Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber and the Law on the Encouragement of Domestic Production in Tourism. It'll probably be two of the only points he'll be dealing with tomorrow. 15 hours of voting, that's it. Resume tomorrow at 10 o'clock. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian Citizenship, the Proposer of the Law is Agent Nikola Vuljanic. In accordance with the proposal of the Working Body, the following conclusion is not accepted by the proposed law for the reasons set out in the Government's opinion to the work bodies' reports. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 73 votes in favour and five abstentions, 23 against the proposed conclusion.
