ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72553	Dear Mr. President, esteemed representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Allow me at the very beginning to give a brief introduction to the decision in question. The European Council was held at the summit in June 2003 in... It concluded on the opening of the European Community programme to the countries of the stabilisation and accession process. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On 17 and 18 June 2004, the European Council decided that the Republic of Croatia is a candidate country and that the accession process should be launched. The Framework Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community, the general principles of participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Community negotiations, provides for the possibility of participating in an extended number of programmes open to candidate countries in the European Union. The law confirming the framework agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the general principles of participation of the Republic of Croatia in Community programmes came into force in July 2005. One of the community's programmes is the "Intelligent Energy in Europe", which is designed to support activities and measures in the field of energy. More specifically, in the area of energy efficiency and renewable energy sources. The programme basis, criteria, areas and rates of financing of the programme concerned are harmonised in detail with the decision of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe, and the duration of the programme has been since 2003, ending in 2006. The programme itself is intended to support European Union energy policies based on the Green Paper on energy security. White books on transport and other related provisions of the legal property of the European Union. The main objective of the programme is to support sustainable development in the context of energy use, a balanced contribution to achieving the main objective, security, energy supply and environmental protection. The Framework Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the general principles of participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Community programmes was signed in Brussels on 22 November 2004. Article 5 provides for specific conditions for Croatia's participation in each programme, and in particular the financial contribution to be allocated, in the agreed form of a Memorandum of Understanding between the Commission, which takes place on behalf of the Community and Croatia. Subject memos from an international and legal position are considered international contracts. At its meeting on 10 March 2006, the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided to launch a procedure for the conclusion of a memorandum of understanding between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the multiannual programme "Intelligent Energy in Europe", from 2003 to 2006. Following the 17 March decision in Brussels, the Memorandum of Understanding was signed by Andrias Pibelgas on behalf of the European Community and Damir Polancec, Vice-President of the Government of the Economy on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The signing of the Memorandum of Understanding was a necessary prerequisite for opening the possibility for applicants of project proposals from the Republic of Croatia to participate in the programme in question, through tenders, in order to report projects called by the European Commission. The adoption and realization of quality project proposals are expected to remove obstacles and encourage the development of projects and renewable energy and energy efficiency programmes in Croatia, and contribute to the overall process of joining the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. To participate in the "Intelligent Energy in Europe" programme in 2006 the Republic of Croatia should pay a financial contribution to the general budget of the European Union of 400 000 and 54 euros. Part of the 300 000-euro contribution will be co-financed by the PHARE pre-accession programme while the amount of 100 000 and 54 euros is secured in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006 at the position of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. The aim of the Law is to confirm the Memorandum of Understanding whose implementation in the Republic of Croatia expects the removal of obstacles and the promotion of the development of renewable energy projects, support for the adoption and implementation of the legislative framework and regulations relating to the area of renewable energy sources and the more efficient use of energy, as well as the achievement of energy, environmental, economic and social benefits for the Republic of Croatia. In view of the nature of the procedures for confirming international contracts and formally expressing the willingness to be bound by an already signed international contract, as well as the fact that they are generally unable to amend and supplement the text of the international contract, it is proposed that the proposed law be discussed and adopted by an urgent procedure, uniting both first and second reading. The programme can be attended by local and regional institutions, NGOs, research institutions, but also by economic operators, i.e. business communities. Grants will be allocated to selected applicants, but co-financing is necessary for all activities and these funds will be allocated up to 50% of the total value of the investment. The rest should be secured from public and private financial sources. The programme is particularly focused on local and regional institutional support, i.e. setting up and strengthening local (regional) agencies of the Office for the Promotion and Promotion of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy. Co-financing does not cover investment costs and this is not a technologically-oriented project, but rather, for example, the development of standards from labelling and certification systems in terms of the concept of sustainable development, development studies, monitoring, support for the implementation of regulations and review of existing legislation in the area of more efficient use of energy and renewable energy sources. Creating institutional structures for the implementation of Kyoto protocol of awareness-raising campaigns and information to the public, commercialisation and support for market penetration of technologies with greater energy efficiency or renewable sources, etc. Interested institutions, organisations and business entities may call for proposals from the project, energy agencies, the deadline for registration is 31 October 2006, and the maximum duration of the project from its adoption and launch is three years. Three different activities can be reported. First they're projects. The participation of at least three entities from three different countries is required. Second, the establishment of local or regional energy agencies of a minimum of two local or regional bodies in two different countries. And thirdly, the activity of the event is sufficient for one entity from any of those countries. In order to promote and provide all relevant information on the programme, the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship in coordination with the Agency responsible for the implementation of the programme in question and cooperation with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund organised a national info day in Zagreb on 14 September 2006 on which interested economic operators, NGOs and representatives of regional and local communities and self-government were invited. The event was as usual that the info day held annually in Brussels was transmitted via the Internet and increasingly important files are available on several websites. According to numerous visitors and representatives of universities, institutes, counties and cities, banks and various other economic operators, if the interest shown at the meeting can be found to be of great interest to this programme. More quality project proposals in all areas of the smart energy programme of Europe are expected to be announced within the tender. The Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship shall consider including existing projects aimed at cooperation between Member States and candidates in removing obstacles to the implementation of individual directives on energy efficiency in the economy and renewable energy sources. The follow-up of the programme after 2006 is foreseen under the Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme, etc. The SIP programme, which is focused primarily on small and medium-sized enterprises, increasing energy efficiency and using renewable energy sources, environmental protection technologies and better use of information and communication technologies. It will be realised between 2007 and 2013, with a budget of about 3.6 billion euros. Out of this, 727 million will belong to the smart energy programme from 2007-2013. The majority of the 2.17 billion euros is intended for the entrepreneurship and innovation programme, with the remaining 728m euros for the policy and CT support programme. Croatia has shown its interest in participating in this programme in principle. However, after the adoption of the programme, a number of legal technical preparations are needed, so it is not currently known when Croatian legal persons will be able to use these opportunities. Here we mean the programme from 2007 to 2013. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72554	Thank you. The Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction? Spacious arrangement, environmental protection? Legislative? I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Milan Meden, Club of HDZ Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72555	Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, State Secretary, ladies and gentlemen. The HDZ Club will support the Memorandum of Participation in the Energy Programme: "Intelligent Energy in Europe" with the programme by 2006. Through this programme activities will be co-financed in several areas, as Mr. Secretary said, improving energy efficiency, promoting rational use of energy especially in... Industry, the use of new and renewable energy in transport, fostered cooperation with developing countries in the field of renewable energy and energy efficiency. [[You don't understand.]] The signing of this Memorandum of Understanding was, in fact, a prerequisite for opening up the possibility of the participants of projects, a proposal from the Republic of Croatia in the programme in question through a tender for the application of a project called by the European Commission. The expectations of this programme are actually great, and the adoption of this Law on the Smart Energy Programme in Europe, Croatian companies can apply to research institutions, NGOs, local and regional institutions, and the total portfolio of this programme is 48 million kuna. In fact, today we are asking ourselves whether some of the Croatian companies will succeed in obtaining this part of the insurance funds. So already in 14.9. means last week the first meeting was held at the Faculty of Electrical Engineering which would be attended by several Croatian companies and universities, and was attended by a representative of the European agency responsible for the implementation of this programme. He presented the project to all interested people, informed and instructed how to prepare and write an application for the competition. What will be needed to win this contest given the complicated administration is actually the right question, we have to admit that there are not enough consultants in Croatia yet, and even when we have them mostly politics, in a way, moving consultants away from such serious projects or bigger them with corruption something else, and when we hire foreign consultants we pay them very well and we say that they did a good job. So it would be an appeal to lobby in a political sense as much as possible with the quality of Croatian knowledge to obtain this European money portfolio. As the Secretary of State said, this programme will not end this year, it will continue in 2007 to 2013 and in the overall portfolio will then amount to 3.6 billion euros, so it should certainly focus in this sense that as much Croatian I would say scientific energy is directed in this sense to get as much money from these programmes as possible. When we ask ourselves what kind of energy they've been using since ancient times, they're primarily thinking about renewable energy. So use of water, use of wind, use of the sun. Lately, there has been a popular mass that refers to fuel obtained from plants, wood, straw, residues from agriculture even animals, and lately even talk about the use of hydrogen. And BMW recently succeeded in commercializing the first vehicles to use hydrogen that burns even in the open air up to 2,000 degrees Celsius, so in nature it really hides very high energy. All it takes is as much knowledge as possible to use it or commercialize it. One of our experts at the Ruđer Boskovic Institute said, "If only three percent of Croatia's territories were covered by solar converters or collectors in thermal electricity, we would get 8 times more energy than Croatia needs." So there's already an idea at the institutes. This sentence speaks enough about which way Croatia should go in planning its energy future. What kind of situation is there in the world? Every year, for example, ten gigawatts or 10,000 megawatts are used in the U.S. through wind power plants. This means that two and two and a half million American households are already powered by this reversible energy today. In the year, California, for example, started this project in 1985. So we see that we've been coughing for 20 years. Whether it's small or full time will show. In any case, in the United States, the emissions of harmful gases have been reduced, for example, by 73 thousand tonnes, by the sodium oxide of 27 thousand tonnes, and so on and so on. But we have a chance to see how California means Mayor Schwarzenegger is competing with Bush today whether to accept the Kyoto program or not? In any case, even in America, things aren't as they might be presented. As far as the European Union is concerned, 6 gigawatts of energy have been installed today and 40 gigawatts of energy are planned by 2010. Europe has already achieved this planned scope, so above is its plan. Germany's frontalties with 18 gigawatts. Spain at 10. So Denmark, Italy, England, the Netherlands. The question is, where is Croatia today and that meaning, and how much power does Croatia actually have to compete, or how much does this memo make sense? In fact, Končar has already made a sharp start with the design of wind power plants in Croatia. Renewable sources in the world and in Croatia must play a significantly greater role than they have today. Since Končar is still a favorite in the production of already trafostations, information equipment and so on I believe that he will already compete in these programs through these prototypes. I believe that they will also get one part of these funds and that will be his incentive, I would say for, and for export, wind-energy export programs that are popular today in Europe and the world. Due to these interests in Split-Dalmatia County, urban plans have created preconditions for 24 locations already, meaning in the county. Of the 40 requirements in the spatial plan of the locations entered, so 24 are allowed. The possibility of building windacts in a 1000-metre coastal belt and the wind distance from the turbines has been excluded, so it should be at least 500 metres from the tourist and catering areas. All in all, Croatia means it has the untapped very high potential of renewable energy, meaning both wind and sun and water. It depends on how much its institutes will have power through the development of hydrogen use as energy renewable fuel, but in any case, Croatia should go through this memo means significantly further, and ecologically we should imagine a world without nukes, thermopower plants, other pollutants to wish their children a healthy and more pleasant environment. The HDZ Club will also support this memorandum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72556	Thank you. For the club of representatives of HSP, the respected representative of Tonci Tadic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72557	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the distinguished gentlemen of the Croatian government. The HSP Club will support this bill but with several necessary remarks to be taken into account. First of all, the Croatian Parliament adopted an energy strategy in last term in 2002. And the energy strategy was written at a time when the barrel of oil was below $30, and today the barrel of oil is somewhere between $70 and $80 or between $65 and $70 depending on the week. Therefore, a new energy strategy of Croatia is needed to take care of these new circumstances and, consequently, to address Croatia's new energy challenges. I expect our Club also expects this initiative, or the "Intelligent Energy in Europe" programme, to be used to finance the development of a new energy strategy. The second thing to take care of is that Croatia is a signator of the International Energy Charter. We do not know how things are with our countries in the neighborhood when it comes to respecting the International Energy Charter, but what we certainly know is that Slovenia must be a signator of the International Energy Charter but certainly also a beneficiary of the "Intelligent Energy in Europe". That this same Slovenia is dead cold in 1998. Croatia kidnapped Krško and that the issue of arbitration was still open with Slovenia for those 56 million dollars of electricity they owed us for not delivering electricity during the period since Croatia ratified that unfortunate agreement on Krško until the moment Slovenia did so. So it's about being precise about co-ownership of the nuke and the fact that Krško is now financing it. provides Croatia with 11% energy needs. Another issue to be taken into account as part of the respect for the International Energy Charter, which I hope is also focused on this "Intelligent Energy in Europe" programme, are energy projects in our neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina, with two aspects. On the one hand, it is not certain when Croatia will gain access to energy not only in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also in power plants that we co-invested in BiH territory in thermal power plants, but also in power plants in Serbia's territory. These plants in Serbia and BiH cover around 18% of our energy needs. I therefore expect that through this programme intelligent energy in Europe, these governments and their electricity entities are also being pressed through the European Union programme so that Croatia can still get to or from these sources of energy that we co-financed. But if anything in this programme is significant, it is indeed an effort to take more account of renewable energy sources or of the interrelationship of energy and the environment. When I talk about it in the first place, I mean the question of the project "The Upper Horizons" in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as Republika Srpska is well known on its own by the government of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the construction of the Nevesinje hydropower plant and the Dabar hydropower plant, as it has so far sought to reroute the water of the Neretva... The lake. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This would, of course, cause an even greater salinization of the Neretva Delta. What is particularly interesting about us in this case is that both Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina are signatories of the Water and Economy Relations Treaty where such things must be resolved among countries and that investors in the hydropower plant "Nvesinje" and the hydropower plant "Dabar" according to our information... from the territory of the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, the same European Union that insists on implementing the "Intelligent Energy in Europe" programme, which again calls for greater environmental protection and greater environmental concern in energy projects. So I am interested, gentlemen of the Croatian Government, in what way will Croatia, by participating in this European Union programme, ensure that its rights to protect its flow of Neretva from irresponsible projects in Republika Srpska, i.e. how will participation in this programme contribute to respecting the Energy Charter and in these key parts such as obtaining energy from the power plants in which we invested, whether in Slovenia or in Serbia, whether in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72558	Thank you. For the IDS Club, the esteemed representative of Walter Poropat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72559	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Mr. Vice President of the Government! The IDS Club will support this Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on Croatia's participation in the multiannual community programme in the field of energy "Intelligent Energy in Europe 2003/2006.". After the European Council adopted its conclusion at the 2003 summit in Thessaloniki on the opening of the European Community programme to the countries of the stabilisation and accession process of the European Council, the Republic of Croatia decided as a candidate country and that the accession process should be launched. The Framework Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the general principles of participation of the Republic of Croatia in Community programmes provides for the possibility of participating in an extended number of programmes open to candidates for membership in the European Union. Thus, one of the Community programmes and the "Intelligent Energy in Europe" programme is designed to support activities and measures in the field of energy, more specifically in the field of energy efficiency and renewable energy sources. The programme basis, criteria, areas and co-financing rates of the programme in question are set out in detail by a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council. The purpose of the programme is to support European Union energy policies based on the Green Paper on Energy Security and Supply, the White Paper on Transport and other related provisions of the legal property of the European Union including the Directive on the promotion of the use of renewable energy sources for electricity production, energy characteristics in buildings and the use of biofuels for transport purposes. If the aim of the law is to confirm a memorandum of understanding, the implementation of which is expected in the Republic of Croatia to remove obstacles and encourage the development of renewable energy projects, then this law should certainly be supported. Supporting and adopting the needs of legislative frameworks and regulations relating to the area of renewable energy sources and more efficient energy use and the achievement of energy, environmental, economic and social benefits for the Republic of Croatia. The Development Memorandum is a legal basis that enables the Republic of Croatia to participate in activities under the European Community multi-annual energy programme and the use of financial assistance from this programme and of course this should be used. We in Istria County will probably get another boost from our Istrian Development Agency and the opening of the Office of the Istrian County in Brussels, thus also show other regions how and how they may easily approach and in agreement with the Ministry of Such Programmes and Realisation. The signing of the Memorandum of Understanding is a necessary prerequisite for opening the possibility of participation and applicants of project proposals from the Republic of Croatia in the programme in question through competitions to report projects called by the European Commission. The adoption and realization of quality project proposals is also expected to remove obstacles and encourage the development of renewable energy and energy efficiency projects in Croatia, and contribute to the overall process of joining the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Of course, I agree with those who will and have said that this memorandum should be used and that a new energy strategy should be developed in Croatia. So, once again, the IDS Club will support this proposal and I believe that with this Republic of Croatia, Croatia will develop even faster and bring it closer to the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72560	Thank you. Dear Representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72561	Your Honor, Mr. President! Here, in short, I support the adoption of this law and the confirmation of this memo. And I also support the main objective of this law. Therefore, under this law it is expected to remove obstacles and encourage the development of renewable energy projects, support and adoption... The law of the framework, etc., so this law will help us to have a greater share of renewable energy sources here in Croatia. the energy consumed in this way, rather than what we had so far and unfortunately we can conclude that Croatia is at the very bottom of Europe as regards production, energy consumption is renewable in different ways. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, as is known from literature, there are various ways of exploiting renewable energy sources from geothermal energy, energy of tides and tides, energy of waves, biomass, solar energy, hydroenergy, wind energy. In Croatia, the largest share of the production of electricity from hydropower is: using various hydropower plants, but unlike the other listed sources, I'm thinking that, through hydropower, we should take a break. that we had to stop all the projects going to build new hydropower plants, just to protect the environment. As an example, we can use our međimurje region, so there is a Podravska region where they are still in the project and as a possibility hydropower plants are being built on the Mura River and in Croatia and Slovenia, as well as hydropower plants on the Drava River near Virje. I don't think we should do this but rather the opposite if we had to develop others, we could say for now for Croatia, alternative energy sources. So far, something has been done in Croatia to develop wind energy, to develop solar energy, and we have heard here today a data that is very interesting and well repeated once again, so according to Professor Gurus, if only 3% of Croatia's territories were covered by solar transducers in the heat sun, we would get about 8 times as much as today's total energy consumption in Croatia. I think we need to pay close attention to that. There is also a weak application of geothermal energy, although Croatia has large, large sources of precisely such underground energy, no use of tide and axis energy, no use of wave energy, the only example we know in Croatia to use wave energy is these sea organ in Zadar. And what I would especially warn about is that Croatia is lagging behind despite all promises, efforts, signed agreements and passed laws, lagging behind, i.e. It has almost nothing been done to develop the production of energy from biomass i.e. in biofuel production. And unlike that, the production of bio diesels was widely known in most European countries, the United States, Brazil, and long recognized as an effective solution to intertwined issues and problems both in energy and in the protection of the environment and in agriculture and in social policy. The first commercial production of diesel in Europe began in '91. In the year in Germany, the world production of diesel in 2005 reached 35 billion liters, so it was the diesel of the most extensive alternative fuel in Europe as well as in the world. Unfortunately, it is not in Croatia. In accordance with the European Directive, Croatia has committed itself to fulfilling its share in the use of biodiesel and so on 31 December 2010, Croatia has committed to putting about 150 thousand tonnes of such fuel on use. Now, today, not a single liter of diesels has been built on gas stations. There it should be clear that it should be placed on the market that the amount of bio diesel, and that the obligations to the European Union are not fulfilled only by the production of bio-elevator. Europe is not interested in whether Croatia will import or produce bio diesel. This should primarily be of interest to us here in Croatia to exploit our potentials, very large. Yeah. But this bio diesel must be in the agreed amount of transport in each liter of fuel. It is clear that a certain amount of diesel can not be produced from today until tomorrow because the basic raw material for production is both for Europe and Croatia, the oily tail. It is necessary to organise farmers in time, in which they must be guaranteed a secure ransom, a safe price, and not as now that they do not know who they will sell the oiled rape or even happens that the oiled turnip is exported and then out of that oiled rape is made by diesel. Therefore, it is obvious that the failure of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry to monitor the adoption of a regulation with its part relating to the incentive system for farmers and who want to deal with the cultivation of rape oil for the production of biodiesel. It should be noted that in Europe as well as in Croatia, agricultural areas in food production are not changing and Croatia is ahead because there are large areas that are not being processed. There is a warning even if Croatia does not want to import or even pay for the pens, Croatia must meet its share in the 5.75% biodiesel, while creating a legal institutional framework and a positive environment for the market economy which is the basis for the successful production and use of the diesel. This memo goes in that direction, and that is why I welcome and support it. Once again, I warn that the potential for production was extremely high in the Republic of Croatia. The key raw material as we know about production was the oil-oiled rape oil. Unfortunately, much of the country's surface in the Republic of Croatia is not being processed, abandoned or abandoned. According to the Faculty of Agriculture in Zagreb, the area is more than 300 thousand hectares. I repeat once again that the reason for this among other things is incentives that are not satisfactory, as shown by hectares under the oily tail, which are growing from year to year. Adequate incentives would result in multiple positive effects, agricultural production would be launched on areas that have been abandoned, employment would be increased, the village would be revived. However, in order to successfully introduce biofuels, it would be necessary not to treat oilseed rape for the production of biodiesel in the European Union in the same way as rape for food production in the European Union. Accordingly, two types of incentives should be identified, incentives for the cultivation of rape oil for energy purposes and incentives for the cultivation of rape oil for food production. So, I hope you'll take the steps you need soon, and we'll soon, i.e. As soon as you have both on time and therefore biodiesel fuel at our gas stations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72562	Replica, the esteemed representative of Walter Poirot.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72563	Thank you, Mr. President. I fully agree with what the esteemed colleague Pavlic said and I think he precisely hit the topic when he talked about biodiesel and about encouraging our farmers to grow oily turnips. I believe that when he said about these 300 thousand hectares that could possibly be included in the job, then the energy picture in Croatia would certainly improve, given that we know that today only electricity for the needs of Croatia and Croatian citizens is imported about 50% of the electricity, so that is why I am contributing to it and I believe that on this very trail Mr. Pavlic with biodiesel gave the right direction how to solve certain things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72564	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72565	The replica, then, is that in some way we agree on the subject of this debate. Maybe just to confirm this thesis here's one experience, one five years ago we were on a professional journey not far, 50, 60 kilometers from Međimurje, then it's still... So on that journey, our esteemed colleague Balthazar Jalšovec in Austria in Murak, they are one of the first places and in Austria to have a small refinery where they produce biodiesel fuel for their place. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this refinery buys not only the oily tail, it buys the remains of old oil, edible oil, etc., and what's interesting is that they also have a heat that works on biomass, so sawdust, wood scraps, etc. And with that biomass, they heat up the whole village, and it's controlled by pure electronics. So there are many ways for which we in Croatia have not yet taken the necessary steps, and we should certainly do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72566	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. Final proposal for a bill to confirm the Memorandum of Understanding between Croatia and the European Community on Croatia's participation in a multi-annual community programme in the field of energy: "Intelligent Energy in Europe." Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 82 for, 2 abstentions, the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72569	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. At the beginning, I would like to remind all of us that at its meeting on 19 March 2002, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on Privatisation of INA - Oil Industry. Article 4(1) of point 2 speaks of the sale of up to a maximum of 7% of the shares of employees and former employees of the INA group, in the follow-up of employees, according to special benefits to be determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In the same article, the percentages of shares referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article shall be determined in relation to the underlying capital of INA d.d. In this opening argument, I think it is also good to quote Article 2 which says: "INA d.d. is a vertically integrated company which together with subsidiaries of capital in its sole ownership forms an INA group." In particular, Article 4(4) states: "The order and dynamics of privatisation referred to in points 1 to 4 of this Article shall be determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, with the consent of the Croatian Parliament, by the sale of the shares referred to in point 2 of paragraph 1 of this Article after the first sale of shares in the tender procedure". In other words, the law defined that up to 7% of INA shares would be sold to employees and earlier employees of INA groups, and that the order and dynamics of the privatisation of INA would be determined by a special decision of the government to be confirmed by the Croatian Parliament. Accordingly, the Government of the Republic of Croatia at its session held on 18 April 2002, and the Croatian Parliament confirmed on 30 April the Order and Dynamics of Privatisation of INA – Oil Industry. In point 1 of this decision, in paragraph 2, I quote: "For employees and former employees of INA groups, 7% of the shares in the portfolio of INA – Oil Industry d.d. are reserved.". In point 2 of the same decision, paragraph 2 refers to a time when up to 7% of INA shares will occur. The sale of shares referred to in point 1 of paragraph 2 of this Decision will take place within 30 days of the first sale of shares in the tender procedure. Therefore, this decision defined the sale of 7% of shares to employees and former employees of the INA group to 30 days after the completion of the initial public offering. We are in the process of preparing an initial public offering that we believe will be successful and will occur at the end of the 10th and early of the 11th month. When we started talks with the unions organised in INA in order to implement therefore the legal obligation, but also the obligation arising from the quoted decision of the Government, we realized that there is actually a very large uncertainty in the law regarding who has the right to share, but I must also say that there is also a major problem in disproportionate between the expectations of employees and former employees and what we think is right to propose and offer as special conditions and benefits. One of the biggest problems with this is the fact that INA does not have enough good documentation on all former employees of INA groups. Therefore, during the trade union negotiations, we came to the conclusion that it would be wise to postpone the sale for a period that is reasonable, just over that month and therefore union centres that have their branches in the INA and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia signed an agreement. The agreement first and foremost defines that it will propose to the Government of the Republic of Croatia the establishment of a special commission which will establish conditions and special benefits for employees and former employees, under which the sale of 7% of INA shares will be established within 3 months of the date of entry into force of the Government decision to regulate it. This commission will, therefore, determine within 3 months under which conditions we will sell 7% of the shares to employees, and the sale itself will take place no later than 6 months after the completion of the initial public offering and this is an agreement signed by the representatives of the Government and the representatives, i.e. the presidents of the union centres that have their branches in the INA Group. According to the agreement, the government has made a decision establishing a special commission and has given it precisely these tasks. Accordingly, we propose, therefore, a decision to amend the Order and Dynamics Decision to privatise INA, the oil industry, and in terms that changes actually the deadline for the sale of 7% of shares to employees and former employees in the INA group. The amendment we propose shall read as follows: "The sale of shares referred to in point 1 of paragraph 2 of this Decision shall take place no later than 6 months from the first sale of shares in the tender procedure". Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament, I ask you to support this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72570	Thank you. The Economic Committee? For legislation? I'm opening a debate. For the club of HDZ representatives, respected representative Vlado Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72571	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. Right at the beginning, I would like to say that the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club will support this proposed decision. In his opening statement, Mr. Polancec, the Vice-President of the Government, presented the arguments on the basis of which we also draw our conclusion. Let me also briefly explain these arguments. Namely, the sale of INA shares is defined by the Privatisation Act of the INA where, among other things, Article 4 said that part of the shares, therefore 7%, will be executed by selling to employees and former employees of the INA group, under special circumstances, under special advantages established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And the government will make a decision on how to sell, price, special benefits, time of sale and terms of sale. This is further regulated by the Government's decision on order and dynamics where it is said that the sale will take place within 30 days from the first sale of shares in the public tender procedure. But as it is said, in the implementation of the Law itself and decisions, certain, certain issues have arisen, certain dilemmas stemming from the indetermination of the Law itself, such as the Law itself. the need to define and determine who has the right to all those 7% shares under special benefits. It is necessary to determine the discount at the basic price of shares, deadlines and means of payment of shares, and the exact time of sale of shares. It is also necessary to define the period during which workers could not start selling the same shares after obtaining the shares in order not to create an oversupply on the stock market in a short time behind the initial public offering and thus reduce the price. Following the above, and in agreement with trade unions and trade unions, it was concluded that a commission was set up to create conditions for selling 7% of shares to employees and former employees. Those proposals will be drawn up by the Commission within 3 months of the entry into force of this Decision and the sale itself will take place 6 months after the initial public tender. The agreement was signed by government representatives with union centre presidents who have their branch in INA and the agreement is the basis for the government's decision, which requires the consent of the High House. I think it should be said that both agreement and decision is proof of the government's willingness to dialogue with the social partners. That this proposal is the consequence of this dialogue and here are the reasons why the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club will support the proposed decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72572	Thank you. For the club IDS, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72573	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed Deputy Prime Minister, the Secretary of State, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. Gentlemen, this isn't a game. This decision has only two articles, I can read them. They say that in the decision on the order and dynamics of the privatisation of INA, the oil industry, d.d., class 310, etc., of 2003, and then from 18 April 2002, not all of them, in point 2 of paragraph 2, are amended and it reads: "The sale of shares referred to in point 1 of paragraph 1 of this Decision will take place no later than 6 months from the first sale of shares in the public tender procedure" and clearly, in Article 2 of this Decision shall take effect on the date of consent of the Croatian Parliament. The decision doesn't even have gentlemen or Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, no arguments. Your earlier decisions, let's say the one from 2004 as I downloaded it from the Internet, has an explanation, I'm not going to read it now. However, the key is as we all know in the following. The sale of shares referred to in paragraph 2 shall take place no later than 6 months after the first sale of the shares in the tender procedure. Now there's a clear question of what that means. But let's take the turn. First financial hardest decisions, most economically significant decisions. Legally, socially the most painful decisions. Politically the most discriminatory decisions are, in general, the shortest decisions, usually containing a few articles or points, and that is all. Now let me tell you what we do by adopting a decision on order and dynamics of privatisation of INA. These headlines, such as the INA stock, should simply be rejected for citizens of Serbia, Angola and Russia. I believe that we are not such altruists, although Article 4(1) of point 2 may also draw such a conclusion because it says that I sell up to a maximum of 7 shares to employees and earlier employees of INA groups, in the text below, employees under special benefits to be determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. That's what I said. It can grow, but I also said we're such altruists. However, it should be against me because I see no reason why workers should privatise only 7% together with former employees, by my court clearly who have a residence in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, who are Croatian citizens and if that sentence or that clarification is missing then it should be installed even though the Parliament would probably through the form of authentic interpretation give this point as I interpret it. I agree, there are great altruists in Croatia. Here, for example. One is Mr. Covic who donated 20 million kunas to his family. The president of Plive and his family in the last three months have reached Plivina shares worth around 20 million kuna, paying for them only half the market price. According to a contract he concluded with Pliva, Covic can buy shares at a predetermined guaranteed price that is usually about half the value of Plivina shares on the stock market. So in July he used the purchase options for 2001 and acquired 12,000 shares of the company whose current value is 9.6 million kuna, and last week he used the option for 2002 and bought 13,000 shares worth 10 million and 400 thousand kuna. He gave 500 shares for charity, and he gave the rest to his family. The same thing we do with Croatia's insurance. Same thing. The 500 thousand kuna bonus was given to their directors for voluntary purposes, i.e. to General Gotovina's Fund, but we'll talk about it when it comes to the Law on the Handover of Authorities. And they're in the same package as all the other government officials, why they should be excluded from all of it. I know that at the end of this story about INA all those INA shares bought by former employees, workers, etc. In the end, it will go into the hands of, say, MOL or OMV, which is sad, because in 1990 or 91, clearly before the war, it could buy MOL and OMV together, but that's the fate of, say, Plive 90, it could buy Actavis and Bar together, and today it's being hunted, and whoever buys it will become the third generic company in the world in which 58 billion dollars are turned this year, and in 2010, it means in all four years it's going to be 100 billion dollars. But to go back to this decision and to talk about it. How many states is this INA thing gonna make? "Piva" is not counting 18% de facto private long ago, this will bring clear benefits to the state less, privates more, their share in 8 months has brought 3.2 billion kuna tax of 45.9% but what I am interested in, how much will the INA stock bring when the government engages in this operation, because the sale of shares referred to in point 1(2) will take place no later than 6 months from the first sale of shares in the public offering process. The first assessment of INA value has not yet come public. The price of oil is probably the key to the INA's assessment. Third, can the INA's value reach even for us an incredible $4 billion or is a real price as someone claims at this time 6 billion dollars. Look at this Mol is with 25% plus one share which was a mistake if nothing about that one stock being sold then, so that 25% plus one share of Mol has paid 505 million dollars. Mr. Laslo Gesti, representative of Mola in INA, said that since they came to INA, since Mol came to INA, the INA value has increased by at least 50%. That same gesture a few days ago returned to his administration in Budapest. If so, the state can get at least $600 million for 15% of INAs, which will say that the INA at this time is worth at least $4 billion. Why am I saying that? Because the current quotation of INA shares of 800 to 200 kuna, turns out to be worth a billion and 500 million kuna, but I know that the government is counting from at least 500 million kuna times the $5.8 dollars today, so that's about about 3 billion kuna, because without that money plus the one in HT, it's hard to go to elections. It is clear that before that the company needs to isolate the gas business, the truth today it brings losses, but tomorrow it could also make a decent profit team as much as the Ivan 1, Ivan 2, Fažana, Rijeka, further Gorski Kotar, Karlovac before the end. What is the key is that citizens who will buy 7% of INA shares or offer them credit lines that will be able to track them. Without that, this item as such almost makes no sense at all. However, it should be possible for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have not so far participated in the conversion, i.e. privatisation, and there are such, to allow us to participate in this, if we want to be clear. I will not but it should enable all those who have not been participated so far if the state decides in such a way to meet a category of citizens of this country. The stories that this could ultimately reduce the interest of key investors for INA in my court simply don't stand. Why shouldn't domestic investment funds participate in all of this and the truth and they're in foreign ownership, property and so on? That's a different story. They say these funds do not have the power to stimulate development which is all true, but what we require among other things is to strictly implement this Law on the privatisation of the INA of the oil industry, d.d. of 2002 this Article 11. that during the time while the Republic of Croatia is owned... and more INA shares d.d. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Government of the Republic of Croatia periodically, and it is literally said here, and at least three months are reported by the Croatian Parliament on the course of privatisation of INA d.d. Unfortunately, that is not what gentlemen do to us or in this House. Or at least it doesn't seem to me like we're getting those and those reports. This means that we will open up a debate on the future of the INA, as well as on the basis of the legal obligation set out in Article 11. Law on the privatisation of the INA of the oil industry, d.d. 2002. Let's say the public price under which the Republic of Croatia will not go. Let us open up the possibility for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have a place of residence on the ground of the Republic of Croatia and who have Croatian citizenship to acquire shares of the INA. INA is the golden coke of Croatian authorities. So maybe we're selling our eyes to 7% defenders, 7% employees, ex-employees, but if we go to working stockholders about what lately the Deputy Prime Minister says a lot why wouldn't all Croatian citizens have the same conditions, the same rights? So I can participate in the privatisation of that company at least 25%. Why are we instituting today in 2006, if we can go so far as to go other criteria or different criteria than those that ruled in this country in 1992 or 1993? Everything that happened at the time with conversion and privatisation is difficult to happen in 2006. My logic, as the Deputy Prime Minister says, is that the government is selling these 15 to 17% we don't even know that in the 10th month it means this 2006, he said that we can somehow income about 3 billion kuna and the same will probably be done in 2007. That's worth a billion to a billion five hundred million dollars. It is somewhere between 8 and 9 billion kuna and it is clear with these money is going to be in the budget or for certain concrete budgetary investments which are to be distributed later on with regard to these capital investments to the corners of the Republic of Croatia. I think that about all of this, trade unions must also defend the position of employees, former employees, as well as the criteria that were valid there in 1992, 1993, when they were able to acquire a significantly larger package of shares. All in all, I think there are a lot of strangers here, and only after answering these questions are I am aware that without these 3.4 billion kunas not only from the sale of INA, HT but also from HT and some other companies can hardly draw up the budget at all. But before we get an answer to those questions, we simply need to know what we're getting ourselves into? The risk is huge, and no mistake I mean this generation of people in the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Government or rather the citizens of the Republic of Croatia should not be afforded. Until that moment, the IDS Club is restrained regarding the decision on order and the dynamics of privatisation of INA.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72574	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72575	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm correcting Mr. Cain's next quote. He said, "I don't see why workers should only get 7% of the shares?" This claim is simply not true or is impossible because those 7% are defined by the 2002 INA Privatisation Act. Because this is also defined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia's decision on the order and dynamics of the privatisation of INA since 18 April 2002, which was also attended by Mr Cain's party.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72576	Second correction by the respected representative Pero Kovačević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72577	Your Honor, Mr. President, I am correcting Mr. Covic's imprecise allegations of an esteemed colleague, Cain, regarding the presentation of Mr. Covic. Mr. Covic was Mr. Caine and the manager of the year and, but I don't know why... Is it because he destroyed Pliva or because of this contest? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And as he was seen now in Verona, he might as well be an opera singer.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72578	For the club of HSP representatives, respected representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72579	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the distinguished gentlemen of the Croatian government. It is truly surprising that the Croatian government is making a decision on the order and dynamics of privatisation of INA in such a truly unserious way. We were expecting more arguments for this. We were expecting a more extensive document. We expected if there were no other reasons why this decision was made. It's not gonna happen. Maybe the government knows that. Perhaps something can be learned by surfing the Internet, on the website of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but it is not the way documents are submitted in the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the government. Representatives must know the reasons for making a decision. That we know the basis of it to vote for or against. For that reason, but not just for that reason, our Club of Representatives won't support this decision, and I'll give you the rest of the reasons? So the application of the INA Privatisation Act by the Croatian Government's decisions, confirmed by the Croatian Parliament on 4 June 2004, was delayed by one year. After the sale of 25% of INA shares to the strategic partner MOL, according to the INA Privatisation Act, the second stage of privatisation envisioned the sale of public offerings, 15% of shares on the stock market. So domestic and foreign legal persons, but also Croatian citizens with special benefits. The second stage of privatisation did not provide for any strategic partner. The law also provided for the allocation of 14% of INA shares to its employees and Croatian defenders. The allocation of shares has not yet begun, but at the same time MOL in INA started acting really like the real boss of the INA. This is seen by the most banal example, so with 25% of the shares, they started acting like the real bosses of the INA. From a more banal example and this is from the design of INA's pump stations INA loses little by little its Croatian identity. INA with this kind of red circle emblem becomes the INA of the rising sun and every Japanese plays his heart when he comes to that pump station because he thinks he's come home. From this banal level of external appearance of INA, which ceases little by little to be a Croatian company and increasingly becomes a company in the service of Hungarian capital and Hungarian economic interests which are again Russian or other interests. The MOL's goal is to make INA an exotic set of pump cells. Let's face it, they're really acting that way. Therefore, under these circumstances to implement the Law on Privatisation of INA in the manner implemented by the Croatian Government, delaying their application with such sheets of paper is indeed irresponsible and irresponsible. First of all, what's the INA stock value today? I'd like someone to tell me that. We asked for it back in 2003, then some assessment was made of the value of the stock that ended with President of the Parliament in the safe and only a few who could see it. However, the INA was worth 1.2 to 1.5 billion euros, not taking into account gas. So the genius consultants who were then engaged didn't even consider the gas part of the INA, first of all. And secondly, no one considered all of my INA oil sites that she had come to, say, in Syria, which also changes its value. So what's the value of the INA stock today, or since it's INA? It interests me, not only me, but all my colleagues in the club, and I believe all of us in the Croatian Parliament and the entire Croatian public. So when it comes to privatisation and the sale of shares, then I would ask someone to say what the nominal value of INA shares is and to write it in a document that goes to the Croatian Parliament. So, the second thing I'm interested in is that MOL has really invested in INA other than released announcements, which is whether it's ready with such precise decisions and continuous delays to take over the majority of the INA shares by MOL. Well, we need to know if that's how we're gonna react to it by then. We know that in the pre-election year, a whole series of projects are planned by the Croatian government. Maybe it's meant to be financed by the sale of a majority INA stock package. Because, you know, in the meantime, the shares were promised to both the defenders and the pensioners, both this and that, and probably the MOL. Therefore, the HSP advocates' club expects a response from the vice-president of the Croatian government if most of the INA shares are ready to be taken over by the MOL and how the government will react to that. Further is the story of course of the Croatian Defence Fund. Listen, I was really surprised not to say shocked when the Croatian Defence Fund was completely patriotically taken by Erste&Steiermärkische banka for its service bank. So, not the Croatian Post Bank which is in Croatian hands or another domestic bank but Erste Bank is the service bank of the Croatian Defence Fund. It's really an outrageous "holy" move. Well then, that fund will account for 7% of the HEP shares, 7% of the INA shares, 7% of the HT shares, totaling about 300 million euros. But, defense fund aside, it's for a special debate. But the fact is that we still don't know who has the right to the shares of the INA and how they will be distributed. So, there remains a whole series of open issues, from the most banal ones and really crucial ones, and that is how much INA shares are worth to what was going to go into these desert delays over how the Croatian Defence Fund works, or who it does, who is really making decisions like this, that Erste&Steiermärkische bank becomes a service bank, which is what employees can really count on, which is what Croatian citizens can count on, under which conditions it will be further sold to employees, whether there will be any shares available to anyone since MOL shows interest in taking over INA, or how it all works so far. So there's a whole series of open questions and instead we get this one completely unmistakable decision on three sheets of paper, literally one, two three without any argument. That's why our club can't support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72580	Thank you. Dear Representative Marko Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72581	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72582	I'm sorry, we have one correction because it came in the meantime. My attention has dropped significantly. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72583	I don't think it's true that Mr. counterpart Dr. Tonci Tadic knows that no one knows what the INA stock is worth. I'm sure the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Polancec, knows and I invite you to say how much it is worth and enlighten Dr. Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72584	Dear Representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72585	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I intended to very briefly support the government's efforts to amend this decision on the order and dynamics of the privatisation of the INA of the oil industry because in fact this change refers exclusively to the privatisation of these 7% of INA's core capital and that is to the group, which, with the INA, the oil industry and those 7%, is directed according to the provisions of the laws exclusively to current employees and former employees. However, I am encouraged by the debate of Mr Caine in particular, so I must point out before this House that the INA Privatisation Act was adopted by the former coalition government in 2002, that the same government made a decision on the order of privatisation of certain percentages of INA in 2002, that the decision has been amended three times, and the exchange has been made for the sale of 25% of the shares to Molu, that the sale under the provisions of that decision, which detailed the way of sale, was sold and executed. The government has decided to move towards resolving this issue, these 7% of the shares that would fall under the provisions of this law to current employees and former employees, and has estimated that it is too short within the existing decision to implement the procedure by 30 days. So nothing else changes the government than a deadline for selling employees and former employees. Of course, according to the provisions of the law, it binds it by selling the next 15% or rather the previous 15% of the shares that will be sold in public auction to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia with certain benefits. The government is bound by Article 8, by its special decision, to say this, to all these decisions made on the privatisation of the INE portfolio, either when it went to privatise, sell the shares of Molu or transfer the shares to Croatian defenders, the Croatian Parliament gave consent. Therefore, there are no objections that can be put to this government or even the previous one, it has done so in accordance with the consent of the Croatian Parliament. Exactly how it says it in the law. Therefore, the current implementation of the current 7% shares will follow the sale of 15% of shares to citizens of the Republic of Croatia under conditions that will be determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with Article 8. In my court, the proposed term of six months is objective for me because in 30 days in such a serious business, nothing can actually be done and only in advance would the government tie its hands so that the job can be done in such a solid way. I believe that before the Government makes a decision on the truth, there should be a solution to those irregularities in the Law on Privatisation of the INE, which today is evident, and that is who has the right to buy shares for the truth, because there are various ideas that this right could even be achieved by some citizens of Europe who are not, or neighbouring countries, are Europe, who are not citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I think that we must most decisively prevent this from just the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to be made on the basis of Article 8. In addition, it should be clearly defined which benefits for employees and former employees because those conditions that were prescribed 14 years ago, I think the circumstances have changed so much that these conditions today need a slightly different, slightly more detailed solution and, of course, I absolutely advocate that the Government puts a limit and a deadline in which shares are allocated to or sold to employees and former employees cannot be sold on the market. They cannot sell on the market exactly to prevent that way of dealing with any new or existing tycoons and companies that could then buy those shares under the hand. I also support the government's efforts to resolve this issue in agreement with the union and the union of INI employees. The government has agreed with them that within 3 months, it will propose conditions of privatisation and a solution to these dilemmas that I have now presented. I think it's one correct move of government towards employees and that's how we used to do a lot of things in the past would probably look and look different, and I certainly support that move of ours. I think that the decision should be amended exactly as the Government has proposed because it is in favour of employees and former INE employees and our country as well. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72586	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72587	Thank you very much, Mr. President. She would also like to correct Mr. Shirtz's allegations that the IDS in the former coalition government participated in making the INA Privatisation Decision. You just forgot that IDS came out of that government more than a year before that because INE's privatisations were in 2002 and IDS came out of the government in 2001.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72588	Replica, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72589	Your Honor, Mr. President. It must be said that Mr. Shirac is sovereignly ruling this matter given what he has told us, but I expect Mr. Shirtz to know or the Deputy Prime Minister to enlighten us today, what Mr. Letica said, that we are finally told both to the Croatian public what the value of INE or at least another question is to answer me how much one part of INE is now, so that we know in the end what we are deciding today and what it will ultimately produce? What will be the final effect? Is it obvious we're here in the dark while some people know far more, so at least give us some light and answer those two most important questions or at least one of those questions, so we'll figure it out easily. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72590	Representative Vesna Skare-Ozbolt? She's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Vice-President Mato Arlovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72591	Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I must say immediately that I cannot vote on the amendment proposal to the Order and Dynamics of Privatisation of INA for several reasons starting from formal to content. First, this proposal was sent to the Parliament against the Rules of Procedure. It does not contain any acts that change and supplement, nor contains an explanation. There's no point in making this adjudicating and underestimating in the Parliament. That really doesn't make sense. I can accept a whole series of data that Mr. Vice-President of the Government orally said in the opening statement, but it's a shame we don't have all that information written. Secondly, the second reason why we need to make it clear is that it is time for the Croatian Parliament to report on the implementation of the INA Privatisation Act and on the privatisation flows of the INA, because it is a very important news that has been said here that an agreement has been reached with trade unions on how to privatise 7% of the INA shares that will be given to workers and former workers. But this should be resolved with certainty and by law unless it remains exclusively in the case of solutions adopted in the Privatisation Act. I personally advocate that INA workers and former INA employees cannot be in a more unfavourable position than any of the workers who participated in the privatisation of former social property. If I can be more favorable, that's another question. And the third question, it should not happen that these same workers are actually put into a situation where they come out immediately after that and resell their shares and earn a share. It should nevertheless be taken into account in this segment that eventually limit the right not to manage but to make available, the right to manage should be extended naturally to acquire profits... The stock. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think that we should now decide that when it comes to system companies, including between them and the INA, we will not privatise these entities in the election year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because you know if this decision is accepted, in six months it will come to privatisation... Whether we want to or not, we're going to raise some groups of voters with this document. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in such a situation it is quite clear that this decision has its own pre-election, not just economic, financial and other character. You know, this decision is changing, and it's said among other things because of the union arrangement. But that's not the point. It's a serious matter. It does not change because of the agreement with the trade unions but at the same time enables the Government of the Republic of Croatia to manage the INA portfolio for another six months and to make profit at the expense of workers. They will not belong to the workers of those shares that they need under the law and finally earn some profit from that. And that is why it is necessary for these questions to finally be resolved and fifthly, it is not possible to make some of these changes without actually entering into not me to say the amendment but to supplement the INA Privatisation Act... the question of the position of workers to participate in privatisation or even more specifically, the Law on Privatisation of the INA does not have to be complemented, but the Privatisation Act which is in force or even more precisely would be far better done if the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament finally were implemented, to be referred to the parliamentary procedure of the new privatisation law which would open the issue of labour share. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in the end, what do you say? I don't think this practice has happened yet. I am going back again, it has not yet happened to refer an act to a parliamentary procedure which does not contain an act that is changing and supplementing, amending and supplementing some act and refering the act to the parliamentary procedure... This simply makes no sense and, in my deep conviction, this should have been returned before the debate and asked the motion to complete the act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because decisions as well as other acts are discussed under the Rules of Procedure as if it were an act in another reading or an emergency procedure, which actually means that it must contain all of those accompanying documents and documents which otherwise must contain such a document. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For this reason, I am in favour of the fact that the Parliament has declared itself bound by the Government to submit, if possible, a report on the privatisation of INA covering this segment, including agreements with trade unions, etc. and second, the fact that the decision to make this decision is prolonged, following that debate, to take those decisions because, with these arguments, the whole set of doubts and issues will be removed for this debate, including the question of how much is now in force on the INA market, i.e. the total capital of INA, which should be placed on the market through share capital, which can be placed, which has not already been sold. And the last thing actually opens the question of something else. What is with one part of the value of the INA that is actually derived from the use of the mineral treasure as a natural wealth and in the territory of the Republic of Croatia in particular from the aspect of the mining rental in that segment and how will this issue be... Not only Kolar, but also East Slavonia... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And him. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. And how this issue will be resolved before clearing the portfolio that will enter the market. It's an important question, it's a national treasure that is not and cannot enter the estimated value of INA. It must remain the value of the Croatian people, i.e. citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much. For all these reasons, I can't vote for this.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72592	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister Damir Polancec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72593	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. First of all, I thank you for a very constructive debate. You have opened a lot of more than interesting and important topics today, but today, on your parliamentary benches, the proposal to amend the Decision on Dynamics and Order in Privatization of INA, in which we focus only on selling up to 7% of the INA shares to current employees and former employees, and I will say whatever it means to the former employees, within 6 months of the completion of the IPO, or initial public offering. I'm going to try again to count the most important reasons for making one of these decisions. Earlier employees of the INA group. First, when an INA group is formed, which means former employees, to interpret these criteria and to accurately determine the INA shares' rightholder, I need legal expertise and I hope you will agree. The second reason is that unfortunately in INA there is no such record of all former employees as we would have wanted and it takes a long time until that record is prepared. Thirdly, I am extremely glad that Mr. Arlovic mentioned it. So there's one big danger. If these 7% of INA shares are found on the market, only 30 days after the end of the IPO there is a risk that this will have a major impact on the price achieved in the initial public offering itself. Investors would think the following way, why should I now enter and compete with someone for a relatively small number of markets with great competition, if perhaps I can wait a month and then suddenly I will see a large amount on the market. And that's absolutely right, that's one of the reasons why we're proposing this decision to postpone the sale, so six months after the IPO. However, I remind you of the Privatisation Act and remind you of a decision made by the former government, that exactly 7% of INA shares are sold to employees and former employees within 30 days of the IPO. At that time it was also necessary to take care of it. The fourth argument, and I think I've made it very open and honest. Negotiations with INA trade unions on special benefits are ongoing, so under the special conditions under which this would happen. The conditions have not been completed and this is actually the joint proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the union that represents, the union that represents the largest number of rightholders. So, both they and we are aware that it's not smart in 30 days, that we haven't defined all the conditions and that this might have an impact on the price, that there is no adequate record in INA and therefore we propose these decisions. As far as value assessment is concerned, there is no better way to assess values than to list shares of a company on the stock exchanges. I'll say it on the stock exchanges and that's, I mean, very important. Because after 15 percent of the shares are listed, we will have an updated price in the period of a month, two to six months after that. I'm sorry that Mr. Letica is leaving now because I'd like to thank him for something special. So I really think that the real assessment will happen on the market. As for the separation of gas business and other businesses you have also opened, I am now extremely sorry that Mr Arlovic did not listen to me about it. In order for you to do so, you need a congregation decision, and according to the Law on Commercial Society, we know very well how congregation decisions can be made. Such decisions are made with 75% of the votes plus 1 vote from those present in the assembly. Therefore, it was necessary to take due account of the separation of not only gas business but also the source of drinking water. I'm looking at Mr. Kolar...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72594	All right, all right. Don't look and comment, invite MPs who, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72595	Okay, thank you very much, Mr. President. In many cities, therefore, cities are supplied with drinking water from springs owned by INA. Geothermal sources are also owned by INA. This was all to be taken into account when the INA Privatisation Act was passed and when 25% plus 1 share was sold to the strategic partner. And finally, whether workers should have the same treatment as all those who took part in the privatisation at the age of 93. I'll say it like this. Read the law again. The law proposed by the former government, the parliament passed, says it will be sold to workers, i.e. employees and former employees of INA groups up to 7%. Up to 7%. Is that enough to participate in the same way as those who participated in 93, it's hard for me to tell right now. And in the end, I would like to thank Mr. Letica because in his eyes of well-intentioned vermin, here I am promoted to the Enlightener. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72596	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72597	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I agree with you that the best way to determine the INA stock market's final price. And we want to know what its nominal value is. So without it, you can't even go to the stock market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72598	Dude, that's not a correction to an incorrect quote, that's an enquire. Question. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72599	Your Honor, Mr. President, I am correcting the incorrect allegations by the distinguished vice president of the Croatian government that no data on former INA employees can yet be obtained. So all this data, you ask the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, it should have that information and it will give you the same moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72600	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Decision amending the Decision on the order and dynamics of privatisation of INA – Oil Industry d.d. - giving consent. I am voting on the decision to give consent to the Decision amending the Order and Dynamics of Privatisation of INA – Oil Industry d.d. by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 14 September 2006. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 70 votes for, 13 abstentions, 3 against, the proposed conclusion, the proposed decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72603	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the procedure for the handover of authorities is regulated and the proposal is to settle 2 things. The first is related to the handover of state-level authorities. Namely, the State Officials Act stipulates that, on the day of the government's entry into office following the first parliamentary elections, the Deputy Secretary of State, Director or Director of the Ministry, Deputy Secretary of Government, Head of the Government's Office, Deputy State Secretary at the Central State Administration Office, and Deputy and Assistant Director of State Administrations shall become the jobs of state officials as a process of depolitisation and professionalisation in the State Administration. Accordingly, it is proposed to amend the provisions of Article 6 in the Act on Procedure of the Authority in such a way as to remove from the list of civil servants who make their mandate available to the Government those duties, i.e. those positions which are changed from officials to civil servants under the Civil Service Act. Another issue is the transfer of executive powers to local and regional self-government units. The proposal for this law proposes to regulate the issue of the process of handing over authorities at local level. It proposes the obligation of the executive bodies of units of local and regional self-government to suspend the mandate in respect of the submission of a report on the state, problems and obligations to hand over authorities, to prohibit the conclusion of a contract of significant value, as well as the issue of the ban on human change and the futility of decisions taken contrary to the provisions of this law. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72604	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? The Constitution Committee? Chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and Political System Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72605	Mr. President, Deputy Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament at the 65th session held on 28 September 2006 discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the handover of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 7 September 2006. The Committee discussed the draft law on the basis of the competences set out in Article 57. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, as parent body of employment. In the debate, the Committee supported the decision of the draft law, and after the debate with the majority of votes, with 6 votes in favour, one vote against the Croatian Parliament to draw the following conclusion: The amendment of the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the handover of the authorities is adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72606	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72607	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Secretary of State, gentlemen of the Parliament. It is my opinion that this law is necessary. This Act on the procedure of handing over authorities since 7 July 2004, literally states in Article 6 and 7 that, on the day of entry into office of the Government, mandates shall be placed at the disposal of the Government to carry out the duties of the next state officials, meaning the Government Secretary, Deputy Secretary of Government, State Secretary, Secretary of State, Secretary of Ministers, Deputy Prime Minister, Head of Government, Head of State Administration, Head of State Treasury, Director of the Government Agency and Director of the Office appointed by the Government. Within 60 days of the entry into service, the Government will take a decision on the discharge, i.e. the renaming of the official referred to in paragraph 1 and in Article 7 it is said that public officials who are members of the Assembly, means the assembly, companies, presidents and members of the supervisory boards of commercial companies for which the Croatian Parliament has also determined that they are of particular national interest to make their membership in those bodies available to the body designated by them, within 15 days of the date of entry, to the Government's office. So here is the emphasis on officials who are members of the company congregations. However, I personally believe that one of these provisions or norms is extremely reduced, in some ways almost offensive. Why? Both at the state level and at the local level, the whole series of them, let me call them the director of public enterprises, are de facto political choices. It doesn't matter if it's the director of the INA or if it's the head of the HT administration, yesterday's Plive until it's privatised, the Croatian Railways, the Pula Theatre, or the Istrian National Theatre, whether it's the director of the Buzet water pipeline, the Pula municipal company, I don't know the Zagreb holding company, the heads of the pulse offices or the Zagreb theatre, etc., Splitian, I don't speak them. The order would be if these people had means that at the moment of the change of government they simply had a nice mandate to make available to the new structure of government. Now whether this new structure of government will accept them that has received electoral legitimacy or not, they should leave it nicely to the new authorities. Let's all call them readers, directors before they come into office, whether it's IDS, HDZs, SDPs, HSPs, etc. when they are to be appointed, then first uncut political sizes are due to this, that party, the city, etc. But when they need to leave all of a sudden, they become experts instead of solidarity with the fate of the one who is leaving at that moment. One word I will repeat, all these people must follow the fate of those who have appointed them. This must be made known to them in a way and through the law. Let them simply take first of all for the company, but in some ways let them work in the interest of the company and normally the one who set them up, and not like I don't say rats, first leave the ship when it sinks. Let's say one of the pulse examples. If anyone holds on to the name of Joseph Broz Tito, I do. ... If it had never been for Mr. Pero, Istria would never have been in Croatia. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Istra passed under Tito's bitter fate, it's an exodus, but if it hadn't been hard he'd never have been in Croatia, clearly with Istrian partisans etc. But his granddaughter, Sasha Broz, used the position of former city government in one of the most unscrupulous ways, has replaced, say, Mr. Raponj, then director of the Istrian National Theatre. I'd give her blood, but she just insults me if she wasn't aware she had to file a mandate at her disposal the moment the government changed. ... He'd give you blood, too. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Why correct the injustice, say the new mayor of Pula, who has nothing to do with it except one moral obligation. So why would someone blame themselves, simply put a mandate at their disposal. This does not mean that any such mandate will be accepted, but some will. Tomorrow let the IDS do the same in those environments where there's a change of government. Why should God's gentlemen at last be performed only on agents? Now, who's to guarantee our safety after we don't get this second term? No one. This morning I read this for the director of PLIVA, Mr. Covic, who gave 20 million kuna to his family. Pliva's chairman, Zeljko Covic, and his family, have in the last three months reached Pliva shares worth around 20 million kuna, paying only half the market price for them. According to a contract he concluded with PLIVA, I don't know when Covic can buy shares at a predetermined guaranteed price that is usually about half the value of Pliva shares on the stock market. That's how he used purchase options for 2001 in July. Imagine. This has reached 12,000 shares of the company whose current value is 9.6 million kuna and last week used the options for 2002 and bought 13,000 shares worth 10.4 million kuna. 500 shares he gave for the charity of these 20s and how many thousands, it doesn't matter, and the rest he donated to his family. All right. The same thing is gentlemen with the director of Croatia's insurance. They have some rights to some bonuses, a million kunas voluntarily 500 grand as kuna they now determine for voluntary purposes at the Gotovina General Fund. I think all of this, especially when it comes to these public enterprises, is one such law on taking over or handing over power should simply be regulated. All of them, meaning director of INA, do not know Croatian Railways, Croatia Insurance, my Buzet Vodavod and so on between, assumed for this in Buzet, have management contracts, cars, cards, does not matter as well as the director of Croatian Radio-Television. And we're looking at plates down here at the Assembly restaurant, and I'm also saying that here, for example, lunch is five times more expensive than in Prisavlje, the Istrian plumber or any ministry. Just don't let the gentlemen who listen to this desavuate this way this home. And that is why, when a change of government comes, I want to believe that this will happen nicely to those who are now in power in those positions let the mandates be made available. We can't also let everything be questioned. In this country, there is a parallelism of power. Even in some way, it makes it impossible for the government to behave either at the state level, or locally through these structures. Why, among other things, is it sometimes desavuated, openly going to the Parliament? Well, because I claim that the capital has ruled this country, that in this country the media has incomparably more power than the representatives have, that's fine. But then I see no reason to prescribe that the directors of public enterprises are at local, county, city or state level making their mandates available. Whether or not the government will accept it is the choice of people who then assume the leadership of clear countries, cities, counties or some municipalities. Why should the government replace anyone? Why should the government be burdened with that? Why should anyone be disabling through these shift stories? And that's why I say gentlemen nicely to my mandate at your disposal. If you stay okay, you'll stay. If the same power goes to the elections and gets a new mandate and then it should put mandates at its disposal as I interpret this 2004 Law on the procedure of handing over authorities. And then you need to put your mandates at your disposal. And the secretary of state and everyone else. As before, the mandates are made available to Croatian citizens by Croatian lawmakers. That's right, gentlemen and in Slovenia. So this law needs to be done. What we have is holy water. The rules need to be introduced today so the next day won't be spoken in the cleaners. It is clear that no one in this country has a mandate or will replace judges, teachers, school directors, no one will replace officials, employees, editors on Croatian Radio and Television, God forbid that someone gets involved in this, but the directors of large systems where it is known that they are coming or at least know that they are coming to them to force them to put their mandates at their disposal. As I said at state level, so on local level. If that doesn't happen, the government will be a pain in the ass, and we're also aware of that. The capital in this country has become everything anyway. Power today is not in the parties if we exclude clearly the biggest HDZ, the SDP is far greater power than in small parties, for example, in NGOs many of which have bigger budgets and influences than small parties. I'm not gonna waste a word on the media anyway. It's okay. So the law is necessary, but this is the law that I said holy water. He must go to work and these principles should also be installed. No one needs to think about replacing employees, replacing employees, reviewing the position of judges, school directors, I don't know, and so on, but these directors of these public companies who are notes of political functions, look at their cards in some way need to be put in line. One cannot endure the parallelism of the government that is currently in place in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72608	Thank you. For the club of representatives of HDZ, respected representative Drazen Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72609	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the procedure for handing over authorities. This law that we passed two years ago creates assumptions for a different system when, after the elections, the political option is changed and at the level of the state, and by amending this law we create assumptions that this also happens at the level of units of local self-government. In this Law, colleagues from the Croatian Party had previously insisted on the rights and I think that this is a very important liquid in the development of all our institutions of democratic society and it certainly affects the development and rise of this democratic culture to a higher level. We are all witnesses when there is a change of political option after the election especially in these units of local self-government and regional self-government we are all witnesses to what, what is happening here? We've also seen security guards, we've seen a call, police inspections are taking out contracts on the table. People change things like that. It all provides a very ugly picture in which there is no winner. That ugly picture actually affects all of us, brings us back and people lose confidence in the functioning of political parties. This law provides those basic conditions that when a change of political assessment occurs that the system functions without a burden simply further. And I think that this law is well-hit, possibly in certain nomotechnical things should fix it, but what's important is that no significant, key changes in any human beings should occur in that election cycle, or in any business sense, any contracts may be concluded, and then after the election, the system can function perfectly normally. Therefore, here is really the shortest on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club we welcome the proposal to amend this law because we also bring it down to the level of local and regional self-government of one condition that will allow us not to look at those scenes. So here we had yesterday in the Parliament and this day's interpretation about, say, Poželjka County, and we see that after the election another year there is shaking and digging up what was going on, whether it was supposed to be one way or the other. Here, when we pass this law, we will have a clear and clear situation. When the elections approach no more significant business activities, no more strategic, large contracts, the county, the city and municipalities are held in one normal state, no more personnel changes that will tomorrow be the new government that will shake it up, but we have a normal transitional system. After the election, the new mayor, the new mayor, the new mayor, will find one correct situation both human and business, civilised from his predecessor gets a report and on all business obligations that the county has, civilisedly receives obligations on the balance of accounts and can continue to function. I think that this is the basic objective of this law and these provisions of the law, of course, and it is necessary to review certain provisions from the nomotechnical point of view whether they may look different. I think this law provides good assumptions for raising a democratic culture of government behaviour in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72610	Thank you. Club of HSP MPs, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72611	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Deputy Secretary of State! So the problem of dealing with the legal issues of power transfer is the first one we from HSP warned about. We warned in 2003 and then we submitted the first draft law on the transfer of power where we gave solutions to both and in any way in Croatia at all levels, both at the state level and at the level of counties, cities and municipalities after regular or extraordinary elections to do this part. The former government didn't do it, and then we re-routed our legal proposal in early 2004, and we got an answer from the current government that they would better regulate it and more precisely. And in the end, what happened when we gave our bill they began to rewrite our bill as their own but worse. That's bad evidence is still today. The first thing that was most important to them was to change the name of the law, ours was about the transfer of power and then theirs was called the Law on the procedure of handing over power. In our bill, these questions were also about how to transfer power at the level of municipalities, cities and counties, and we pointed to this when the law was passed in 2004. So we should have had that settled for 2005 when local elections were held at all these levels. But unfortunately, this is the situation where the ruling does not want to accept proposals from the opposition that were constructive. We have even shown how and how this is done in both Germany and Austria, and in Sweden and all other Member States of the European Union today that these things have been resolved. And the consequence of all that we haven't solved or solved in a bad way is that this one will constantly go through changes and additions. Therefore, it would be wiser if the government as its law, we don't mind, I'll give you that bill of law and then we've solved all the situations. Because in Croatia, there is one big problem and it has not been solved, in our law it has been resolved that we must be aware that before the election is called and after the election, nor does the state administration work for six, seven months, they are only watching who will eventually come to power, what the situation will be. It is also at the level of municipalities, counties and cities. We need to be aware and realistic that there is of every choice when they are regular happens that six months there is no work, means before maintenance and after maintenance. And that our solutions were accepted so that it was known exactly when the power was changed that we had determined exactly who packed the suitcases because it was with that authority and came as it was and out in America it was known exactly that when the elections were held afterwards everyone packed in a box of his things and he knows that he was leaving. But the other one who won the election is already waiting with that box of his and he walks into that room. It didn't happen to us, and then there was always these possibilities of rematchism, cleanups and everything else that happens today and what happens at all levels because we didn't exactly determine when any of the duties at the level were to be changed, then something was done but it wasn't done until the end. So let's once in Croatia agree on this parliament regardless of whose proposal is better to bring it right away, let's not make up hot water, copy it, and then go to the post-festum changes when we could have it immediately regulated and it was regulated and there would be no such situation relating to the transfer of authorities or the transfer of authorities at the level of municipalities, cities and counties after these local elections that were held last year. So these were many situations and related to the proposal we gave the Law to prevent conflicts of interest. It's been made, rewrote our law, we've got this now which is no longer known which is who's in charge and how to prevent or implement something. There are a lot of situations like this, and I think it's some of what they're proposing, these are democratic standards, and it doesn't matter who suggested them. And that's why I'm really telling the government that it's her fault why now this situation is going to change and supplement, the truth is these changes are bad and complemented. Let's just say he has to put together an ex-government report. What if he doesn't draw up the report? There's no criminal provision, nothing can be done to him. Therefore, do not put some things in place that make it sound like something has been done, when there are no sanctions or possible sanctions. But that's the thing, the level of these acquired democratic standards, those unwritten rules, the agreements we have to build with those solutions that we've given, and therefore this isn't what was meant to be done, it's bad done and the only thing to take over our original law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72612	Thank you. For the SDP club, the respected representative Zvonimir Mršić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72613	Dear President, Deputy Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. This law towards us in the SDP club has one purpose, which is to concreteise HDZ's influence on the state administration regardless of who will win the next parliamentary elections. Why do I think that's the case? Because if one of the state officials wanted to determine that he should not put his mandate at his disposal and it is an extremely high level of influence, then it could have been done when the law was passed. And the law was passed a while ago. We voted for him, we discussed him. And imagine the absurdity is now proposed that one person who has express influence on what is happening in the state, which is the head of the Office of the Government, so a man who influences what is in the government as an executive government, he ceases to be a state official and he is the future prime minister and the future government must retain it. This law becomes a professional, non-partyly capable person, he certainly did not come to the workplace by competition. He came by some political criteria, I guess he's in the past now and in the future he'll also be a member of a party that has a majority in the government. But we now say no, the new prime minister cannot choose the head of the Government's office, but it must be the one who was before him. It'll be good if it counts on being the same, but I hope the citizens will know how to choose a government that won't be the same, that the citizens will choose a parliament that will know how to choose a better government and then they won't be the same prime minister, so they won't be the same head of the Government's office, will they? We're the same expectations, same with the deputies, Deputy Secretary of the Government. Well, good thing we're taking the job of Deputy Deputy Secretary of Government, if we say now that this law stops him being a state official de facto, and that he doesn't have to put his mandate at his disposal. Did he come to the public tender for the job? Or he came by political criteria. You have today in a daily newspaper, as regards the supervisory committees comparison with Slovenia, where they say that in Croatia the supervisory committees are coming for political similarity and in Slovenia it seems, you have to have a certificate, so you have to be certified so that you can sit on the supervisory boards. So it wouldn't occur to you to say that you as a member of the Supervisory Board don't even have time to read the materials you have to decide at that board meeting. Now, is that what we're saying that this is Deputy Secretary of the Government or Secretary of the Ministry, did they come to their jobs in a contest? See also to make the absurdity bigger with this law, then use a few articles that talk about local self-government, as that's our reason, to pass this law and we'll only change this along the way. But what happens to these laws, the provisions of local self-government? Ladies and gentlemen, these provisions apply to 2009. So what is our reason today to change the law that will apply to 2009, because this applies only to regular elections for the municipal chief, mayor, etc. They will, by all accounts, be held on 17 May, I think, in 2009. And now we are making an excuse for something that happens in May 2009 we are taking the opportunity to cement the state of the state administration, for the current influence in the state administration to be dominant and after the next parliamentary elections are held regardless of what the citizens will be like. That's the problem. But it's not the only reason SDP can't support this law. This second part of the local self-government which is your excuse for this cementing is a sloppy and inconsistencies gentlemen. He's only talking about regular elections. What about the extraordinary election in local self-government? Is there then no such provision on the handover of the authorities, can this then happen that humanely solves the situation according to existing practice? Ladies and gentlemen, this law does not respect at all what has already been passed or will be and this is a direct choice where the position and role of the representative body and the directly elected head of the unit of local self-government are divided, so you can have a mayor who functions and disbanded representative body and commissioners. This law absolutely does not predict it. This law does not provide that in 2009 there will be direct elections and that after that we can have a situation to choose only the head man and that the representative body works or on the other hand we choose a representative body and that the head man of the unit of local self-government works. We've had situations that just Commissioners abuse their position at a time when they manage units of local self-government. It's them and we're not saying a single word about what the commissioner can do at a time when elections should be prepared in a single local self-government unit. For the absurd to be greater, I am sorry that it is not today, we have not discussed the Law on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government, but this law provides that the mayor, in his regular term, will be able to own up to 0.5% of the budget, maximum million kuna. And what do we let him do with this law? That when there is no representative body, you can have 1% of the budget, according to the regular situation, when you have both the representative body and the mayor and everything, then you limit it to a million kuna, and this law gives you the opportunity, for example, to manage the mayor of Zagreb on its own with a 1/12 budget of up to 1/12 of six billion. If by this law we can derivate the organic law provision and can we do it at all? And why should we increase the mayor's powers in the electoral process compared to when there is someone to control it, which is a representative body. Why would we do that? There's no explanation. It says that simply this law is not consistent, it says that this law is unnecessary, because first it needs to pass electoral legislation for local self-government, it needs to pass a new law on local self-government and then determine the mechanisms for the transfer of power to local self-government. And we are today discussing what kind of transfer mechanisms will be for mayors, mayors and mayors, but we are not discussing what kind of local self-government will be. We delayed that debate. But even if we had discussed it, it would be a complete confusion in what is proposed by this new law. We are simply not solving anything here, and indeed local self-government is serving the government just as an excuse to achieve a political goal, which is to protect certain persons and to cement its situation and its influence in the state administration and after the next parliamentary elections. Be careful, this is the case, for example, that in the process of handovers the authorities are prohibited personnel changes except in the duties that are in the local self-government where the public tender is carried out. And what are these duties that are not a public competition in the local self-government appointed officials and tenants? So the promoter should know that in local self-government only and exclusively appoint themselves and work on the basis of a public tender. What about the procedures? What about the procedures of a public tender that was held before or before the elections were called? And so on. So, I would suggest that simply this law be withdrawn from the procedure, there is no need if we agreed that the Deputy Secretary of the Government, the secretary of the ministry, the assistant ministers, the head of the government's office, officials who must put their mandates at their disposal especially because they have come at this time politically in those duties. Every reason for this law is lost. As for local self-government, it doesn't make any sense to pass before we pass basic laws. So before 2009, I mean the Croatian Parliament, I hope to pass a full law on local self-government, not that we have a law that is in force, and you can't apply a law that isn't, it won't be in force and you won't be able to apply it. I wonder what the refined text of that law will look like. So let's pull this back and we have for local self-government because it refers to regular elections, there's no reason for us to discuss now what will be worth in May and June 2009. And for what the real reason is, which is to keep the heads of a few people, it's not enough reason to change the law here in the Parliament. It is also difficult to predict situations that will be related to local self-government because the concept is yet to be considered. We are announced that in 2007 we will have a new round of decentralisation, new powers, a new position, a new role, big cities, cities like this, cities like this, and we are now predicting under the existing law that the transfer of power will take place in the most sensitive period, and that is, when there is no representative body, we do not define what the role of the directly elected mayor is, we do not define what the role of Commissioners of the representative body is, or until then, so until they are direct elections, we do not define the role of Commissioners at all. Therefore, I would suggest on behalf of the club that this law be withdrawn, there is no need for it or reason to be brought, and whatever it is adopted will be unspeakable and bad because this law cannot provide for solutions for status and relations within local self-government that have not yet been adopted or adopted at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72614	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72615	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Well, in a number of incorrect allegations, an esteemed colleague said, and I quote: this law serves exclusively that HDZ concreteises influence on power after the elections. That's absolutely not true. This law serves to regulate the rules of the post-election game and before the elections in terms of the process of handing over authorities. It is at all incorrect and incorrect to comment on the provisions of this law in terms of any post-election results, so the voter's testimony on whom he will give his trust. In conclusion, the law serves to regulate the rules of the game, and it is incorrect to interpret it in this way after the Assembly speaker.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72616	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72617	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In one series of inaccuracies, Mršić said that the provisions of this law refer to local, local self-government units relating to the 2009 regular elections, which is not true. And that unnecessary is also not true. In fact, if we look at the provisions of these amendments and the addition of the Law, they are neutral in themselves, regardless of whether it is a regular election or an extraordinary election. Also in Article 10a of the amendment and addition of this Act, we are talking about the mayors, mayors and mayors and mayors of the City of Zagreb regardless of whether they will be elected under the current OB, current applicable regulations or immediately in 2009. He's neutral about it. I'm not a lawyer, but that's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72618	Thank you. Club of HSLS, distinguished representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72619	Dear Mr. Vice President, the honorary representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Obviously, we're leaving the situation that our current situation isn't great, but that still doesn't mean we need to change it. And I get the feeling that it's actually the best way for us to go through things for some bad future, or infinity, and then it's probably just going to happen in itself. But that's precisely because we can't define the very meaning of politics, which is politics. Is politics, how we experience politics, and how certain political parties experience politics? Is it a matter of force and kidnapping, is it a matter of serving citizens, people or politics, and we see it as one responsible job? In fact, all you have to do is look at how citizens, i.e. the State Administration, local administration, behave when the time of the election comes. It's something that actually, who took part and had the opportunity to watch, then it really shows how we still live in pre-political times. Political and ini life actually dies in cities, counties, municipalities actually nothing after 2, 3, 4 months nothing happens. People are, that uncertainty is actually something that every normal man, a responsible man should worry about. Then you see actually all this glamour and misery, actually human character behavior, and that's because we didn't allow them to lay out clear rules of the game and to know clearly who with politics, if there's a change, who stays and who goes away. And that's something that we actually have to do after 15 years of living in a multi-party, democracy we have to worry about, ask if it's normal and whether it's what we really wanted. In preparation for this debate, I remembered the book of Esad Komić, "Policy as Destiny". It is a great book, and it is there that shows an example of what can actually happen to a man when politics decides to deal with it. I was so naive that it would change then because it was written there in the '70s, in the late '70s, in the early '80s, that by changing the system of government, that just such books and such fates would actually become something, like one, like some bad memory of some totalitarian time, when politics was really a bad thing. Like the space of actually the lowest passions and when really man becomes a wolf to man. But here, it's been 16, 17 years, nothing more important has changed. And we really have to draw that line once, we have to come once that Monday when we really say we can't act anymore because really if politics is fate then it's also fate. It's not easy for people who work, who work hard, who work, who are hardworking, who are loyal, it's just because the political option is changing that they have to change, too. Or worse, to force them to plead, and then they have to declare themselves on the same day several times because there, you don't know until the last moment which policy options or which coalition of policy options will win. And that's all, unfortunately, we've had a chance to look from that local to this state level. And that practice, this unpleasant practice that actually disgusts politics, which actually creates a poor perception of politicians in our public needs to be changed as soon as possible. You see, we, we can speak with some experience, try, insist on introducing, that in the City of Osijek where I had the honour of being mayor of four terms, professional management in public, city enterprises. It was clear that you, many of these people who led these certain city companies, did not belong to the ruling political option. But just to prove he could behave differently, they weren't changed. The vast majority of them have not been changed precisely because you wanted to have a professional management that will work independently on the attitude of political forces in the city, county or state. Unfortunately, this has changed in these last elections. What you've been building for 15 years simply overnight was in the most harshest way possible, changed. And that's not good. This uncertainty that is actually constantly from choice to choice, and we thank God almost every year have some choices, does not really create any assumptions for a normal and healthy and stable political, economic and in-life. And it's not exactly possible for that political resemblance to actually be the only criterion. This is a bad criterion because precisely because then all other criteria are avoided, from public competitions, from some competence, from diplomats, but simply offered, are offered precisely those elements of passion and precisely that people have to change their political options and beliefs several times. And that's why this law is necessary. Is he great? Is he great, is he really hitting all these segments, is he really going to lead to this, to depoliticalisation and professionalization, that is, it's a big question, but it has to start. The journey around the world begins with that first step. We must determine when this unfortunate Monday will be, indeed, that it will bring politics into the sphere of responsibility. The responsible behaviour of the government where really professionality, loyalty predominates. And that's exactly how these people are offered safety. existential security, the security that is necessary for us to really live here as normal citizens, not citizens who will be disappointed at the time of elections and post-election events until they are achieved. This is something that should be a condition of all conditions in order to really bring about stabilisation, normalisation, democratisation and Europeanisation of our political life. This way we didn't move much from Simic, we'll still be able to... and actually just show these worse sides of politics where these negative emotions, feelings of fear, uncertainty, and right then and all those implications that come out of these facts. [[You don't understand.]] That is why I say this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the procedure of handing over power should be supported, it should be exactly what everything positive from these European experiences accepts, but simply not because it has never been done, there must always be awareness that we cannot push that time into some bad infinity but that we must insist that it be brought as soon as possible so that this game that is ahead of us would be played in the best possible way. No matter how many times security is offered, and now we can find these and examples like this, I think that after all, life itself is doing better than the law can and certainly no one will be representing someone with whom the political element or human being disagrees. So let's not be afraid, but let's offer this general sense of security. I think it's actually important and it has to be our message that without such a sense of security and a reduction of this uncertainty is something that we politicians are responsible for and no one else, not simply passing into that bad infinity that will eventually be done. We certainly have a lot of these laws to pass and these reforms don't happen overnight, but with one element that we haven't solved, and then that we don't have to solve this, I think it's one bad policy, and it's actually on the trail of this exactly this Cimic book, politics as fate, as something that could have happened to us worst and what's happening to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72620	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72621	Dear Mr. Vice President, I am correcting the incorrect allegations of a distinguished colleague, Kramarić, who is in the inspired exhibition of the HSP project, and we have set off with this project, that the issue of the transfer of power at all levels and at the level of companies is regulated legally. He seems to have adopted himself today, so it is known that it is not his project, but HSP's project.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72622	On behalf of the HNS Club, distinguished representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72623	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, it should be puzzled over this bill, puzzled because it is absolutely not clear what the proposer meant when he proposed this law and whether he was aware of the consequences this law would cause. This law actually means to change only the head man of an institution, and to leave the complete structure to the highest levels of those who previously participated in the management of the body of the state administration. So how can this man function and work? So today most of the assistant ministers, members of the city's chiefs, are declared members of a political option that is in power and tomorrow when elections come, these people should be, they should remain in office. In the City of Zagreb, this would mean, all members of the SDP, who are members of the City's headship, some of them are the heads of city offices, including the deputy mayor. So what could the mayor or the minister have such a structure? What could this man do? This law tries to move the principled provisions of the Law on the process of handing over state-level authorities, to local levels, to transfer and re-transmit and that urgency is fine if we have already passed that law, even if that law has its own difficulties. But it fails to do one thing that's almost unimaginable. It does not define the duties of local self-government in the headship that must be made available, and then, based on the provision of an existing article of the law, Article 6 does not require any of the duties of local self-government to be made available and to be banned by means of a ban on human change. So by coming to power in the units of local self-government, you are forbidden by the basis of this law to replace the members of the headship and the heads of the city offices, etc., directors of public companies. So what are your options for doing something? Whether it's HNS, SDP, HDZ or anyone, an independent candidate for whatever, the mayor or something. And the other thing, therefore, is something that is missing from this law, should be defined at that level what places are in units of local and regional self-government that are subject to alteration if they are not defined then, by virtue of Article 6 neither of them is subject to alteration nor by prohibition. So how can you suggest something like that? So what will be the position of him who comes to that place, and what does he have to do? Well, of course, it can only change the law if it has that power. If he doesn't, he should resign because he won't be able to do anything. And another thing, if this is a transfer, parallel transfer of provisions from central level to local level, then that should be the content of the legal text. It's like a coward's egg tossing out the secretaries of the ministries, the assistant ministers from the central level, and these are our legal texts. If one fundamental idea of the law is to move it to the level of units of local self-government, then it needs to be consistently implemented and whatever you think about it is a neat, valid, correct legislative procedure, and here a provision is inserted that has no connection with this basic idea, and that this is the level of the secretary of the ministries, the assistant minister, it's something that's scandalous. Even below that level, there is a hidden one, and that means even worse political influence. When you come to the head of the ministry, and the same situation is elsewhere, you get secret signals that some should stay and these people are already at the level of the chiefs, so below the level of the ministerial assistants, they're nice to some political option and based on unwritten political similarities they stay or become chiefs without talking about the assistants of the minister and it happens everywhere including one institution where it should least happen and that's the Ministry of Defense. It happened to me on several occasions, so the officers downstairs from the ministry system, the department chiefs or some services send signals to the minister about their quality through some people in the ministry itself, and that happens to everyone. If these people were placed in place by public competitions, based on the actual quality of the checks and their values, their qualifications, their abilities, then that would make sense for the level of the commissioners. Since it hasn't happened and it hasn't happened in this country in the past 15 years, it's always been an arbitrary relationship between the decision-makers often polluted by politics in a hidden way, which is the worst form of pollution because you don't know what it's about. Something like that to cement now is something that is absolutely unacceptable. I really don't know what the guy who wrote this law meant. So, excluding this first level before it was in law so far, I think it's not enough because that second level is often politically focused in an even worse and dirtier way than this one because this one is first declared as members of political parties, and this second one is not. On the surrounding roads, underground roads find their way to party centres, headquarters and then, as an independent institution or structure within the ministry, sell as a profession, and de facto below it is politics. And it's already too much for the state of our state administration and our political relations, and now it's still going up to the level of the assistant minister or secretary of the ministries that's being proposed here is absolutely pointless and I absolutely don't understand how anyone can suggest it. In our circumstances, today's circumstances of state administration officials' ties with political parties are much cleaner, fairer and clearer variant, the principle of "politicals and bring, politics and change". Of course, I am not against the fact that in some perspective at the level of the Commissioner, so the third level of administration if it were the minister, and then we would be assistants, that we are building an independent structure that will not depend on political parties, apply. It will take us many years, but in this situation when it's all contaminated by politics to this or that, I don't mention any party, it's absolutely wrong. And what happens after this law is passed if this law is passed? It will happen if it is not adopted by consensus political push, the parliamentary majority, the other parliamentary majority will change the law. There's this parliamentary majority, just transferring a ball to these to say you're cleaning up. But it has to be done for the system to function. So how are you gonna conduct some investigation inside the ministry? And what is worth these reports that you will receive when they were written to you by those who did so. They will do all they can to hide in these reports what could possibly be problematic if such reports are not prescribed. And what does that reporting obligation even mean? In the last term, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia gave the Prime Minister a single table with one ton of reports, and you get it in principle when you inherit, when you enter a ministry, perhaps on a smaller scale. It's what these people do to you that you can't change and you don't have people who could even look at what's in those papers. So each minister gets a report from individual sectors of the ministry that can be hard and 50 kilos and you don't have people to look at what's inside. It can be presented in various ways, it can indeed be all that is in accordance with this law but that you are not able to see it. That provision is good but it's also just declarative, and it's still declarative or it becomes pointless if you don't have the ability to see through some people what it's actually written there. Therefore, it is absolutely inconclusive even though such laws are not passed by consensus they will cause severe political conflicts, accuse after the handover of the government, even though the new government or the new parliamentary majority at their end is actually trying to cement and relations now in their favour which will lead to new political conflicts, pollution of political space, polarisation of the electoral body and, of course, to the attention of citizens from the real issues they need and can address exclusively human issues which are due to their importance, etc., plasticity and personality often more important than much more important and more serious structural or financial issues. And what did you get? You've got one cowardly egg in the social drive, a political drive that destroys, in fact, makes it impossible to create real issues and problems that should then be dealt with in the right way in front of citizens. And some technical provisions of this law are equally problematic. There's a public competition here. I'll just say it. Well, there was a good-looking situation a few years ago when the mayor of one of our cities was in the middle with his coalition partners because they couldn't agree on who was supposed to be the director, so we agreed on how we'd deal with public tenders. There's a public competition going on, but he's just a farce. For example, the appointment agreement between the directors of public enterprises was concluded in party arrangements, and that mayor made it very clear. All these public tenders are unfortunately more or less farce because we managed to build them so, so they really enable those who make the decision to be the basis of quality, the basis of ability, the basis of merit, and not the foundation of someone else. Well, look what they look like. Some of them are funny. It's a five-year job experience and a college degree. And nothing more. Therefore, the choice of who will be elected is exclusively a dominant political decision and until we rightly resolve the cementing of such a situation is absolutely harmful. I propose that the motion to the Government of the Republic of Croatia withdraw this law from the procedure. This law will prevent local self-government units from functioning at all. To a good extent, it will make it impossible for the institutions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to function. There will be riots and conflicts in political life and clouding the real problems that officials at local level should also deal with at national level. And not with each other's accusations, the staff puzzles without criteria and, of course, dating, entertaining the people on completely wrong issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72624	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by the Honorable representative of Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72625	With constant anxiety and fear, I would correct a frighteningly wrong allegation. Cleaners must be made for the functioning of the system. The whole presentation of my colleagues, Radosa, was a horrifying exhibition. Gentlemen of the Ministry never agree that officials are clean when a government shift occurs, under the pretext that they are incompetent and the minister's posts come, the defences of people who have never done that job. So this is one of the most retrograde exhibitions I've ever heard in this House of Commons.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72626	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72627	... Mr. Letica hurt the Rules of Procedure, Article 214, I wasn't talking about cleaning. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I was just talking about the possibility that whoever comes on duty has the possibility that if he estimates that he can't function and that he can't take responsibility for the ministry's leadership then he has the possibility of a shift. So... Mr Letica made a mistake and injured Rule 214. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72628	I don't think it's a violation of Article 214 that says that the subject should be held in its speech. He was saying, he didn't get clearance. In another way, he disrupts the session's order. So I don't think Mr. Letica made a mistake and hurt the Rules of Procedure, and he quoted you. ... Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Kramarić. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72629	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Radosh, spoke of this law as a kind of cowardly egg. I think it's a very dangerous political premise if you're starting from actually, that you have to doubt everything they've been doing before you. You know, if it's really going to start a new one, the start of every new government must be suspicious and then it's wasting some time to actually explore what it was doing after I'm afraid it's not a good premise for exactly this relationship that we want, and it's respecting that official and believing in his loyalty, believing in his competence, and instead of really doing it over and over and over again, then we're actually spaced away from that idea... our administrations and depoliticalisation [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The one we stand for. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Like I say, I'm afraid doubt can't be a good premise. Because the world isn't chaos. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Because if it was chaos, it would have fallen apart a long time ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72630	The word has a respected deputy vice president, Dom Mato Arlovic, and Article 207 paragraph 2 in 12 and 15, the time for application for individual debate has expired. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72631	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, and I myself join those who suggest that this law be withdrawn from the procedure and that this same matter in the nature of things is actually trying to regulate those laws that belong to it. I would like to make it clear and quote Article 4. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In the Republic of Croatia, the state authority is set up on the principle of the division of power into legislative and executive and is limited by the Constitution of guaranteed right to local and regional /regional/ self-government. Dear colleagues and colleagues in local and regional self-government have no authority. You can't make a "x" decision in town that, for example, the prime minister can't come to this city. And if you were the government, you could do that. And we're talking about government relations here. Local self-government manages social affairs and relations to satisfy the interests and needs of the citizens themselves who have the right to local self-government, not their representatives... That's the first principle question. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Accordingly, if we want to talk about the handover of the authorities as to how to do so under the indication or management at local level we have in the process, in the first reading of the Amendment Law and the additions of the Law on Local, Regional Self-Government which contains all these issues just needs to be added, complemented. There are also relations between mayors and administrations in local self-government and mayors and everything else and even the issue of governance suggests here in a different way or decision-making related to financial burden. If we want to add and expand, I don't mind expanding it and supplementing it, but in the Law on the System of Local Self-Government, no... Secondly, we will avoid complete indifference and inequality. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is completely inappropriate in the Law on the Handover of Authorities to indicate that it cannot be made at the time until the new power of the decision is established, the mayor, and so on is already from 1% of the budget, or 1/12 of the law which is the item of the agenda at this same session, we propose that it is 0.5% or not more than 1 million kuna. And what solution will we respect tomorrow? This will be a system law, then we will be able to respect it in regular relations while there is a Council and everything else, and not in those extraordinary relations you give this much greater authority and so on and so forth. Therefore, laws must not be passed that will actually allow for different interpretations and different relationships that are not really good. Thirdly, you know completely, it's actually empty and sad to bring article 10a, in Article 4. 10.a. and 10.b. where all reports are said to be submitted and then, in 10.b, in particular, indicate a special report on commitments undertaken and outstanding from the date of the handover of the authorities. Well, for God's sakes, if the report is a report, then the report must contain all obligations and jobs that include those that have been taken over and are not particularly secure. Well, it's got to contain that in particular. In addition, it is the subject of state audit expression. And in this context, it would be very interesting if the state audit had enough personnel and opportunities, resources and time to hand over the authorities or the report on the reception and handover of the authorities before the new chief takes over, the new mayor actually verified the state audit. Now, if you wrote this, it would be the right thing to do, but not like this. Every report of what that clerk or official is going to write, but that he was doing a good job. So he writes a report about his work for God's sake. He'll check it out. New Chief. So there's no information or data, and in that context it's quite clear that this should have something else here, but there's something else that's important. At that time, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government should stipulate that when the authorities are taken over, especially when the mayor is directly elected, he must form his working group or commission or any working body, which will review the report and, in fact, together with the State Audit, determine what the situation is, so that he can inform the public of what he has inherited and how he can continue to work. That's something else. And we don't really want to talk about it quite seriously and quite well about certain solutions. Fourth. Look, he can't make decisions on appointments from his jurisdiction. Now. He can name the performer of duty. And you know what appointments the mayor, and the mayor and the mayor and the mayor will be able to appoint out of their jurisdiction without having a decision of the headship or the county assembly, even in this amendment and supplement, when we choose the direct ones, if we had to have such powers to appoint from their jurisdiction, we have not yet foreseen such opportunities. We didn't predict the law. Therefore, it is obvious that we should actually ask the question of who is mixed here, this is really thought to be the government, the government, because a provision has been taken over from the government and the following things have gone the way the Prime Minister or Minister could, etc. The mayor and the mayor and the captain can do it. He can't. He can't. Maybe in some things he would, but it's too bad he can't. Next, in... Persons who have the status of officials who are placed at the workplace on the basis of the standing under the previous public tender shall not be obliged to place a mandate at their disposal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now here is the attempt, in fact, to put the same rule as the deputy secretary, secretary of the ministry, assistant minister, head of office, to actually get into local self-government. And what about the leaders, what about all those people who came at political will and not on the basis of the contest? That's impossible. This is simply impossible in this way to do and in this respect it must actually be very serious to approach this issue in a different way. In addition, Article 3 which you have indicated here that, in practice, Article 6 in which they do not have to, in relation to the handover of authorities, be made available to the mandate is contrary to Article 151. Law on the civil servants system. In this law, I quote "... on the day of entry into office, the government is after the first parliamentary elections the position of the secretary of the ministry, the deputy secretary, the head of office, the deputy, etc., to become the jobs of state officials, and the current position of the assistant minister is being abolished." But that something that's being abolished won't make the mandate available. He must make himself available personally because he must be deployed to another job because his work is no more. There isn't. In addition, paragraph 3 states that, within 60 days, the tender for all these duties will also include those preceding duties which do not cease, or which are not terminated and to be verified by the invitation to tender. How are you going to fill out something that has not stopped your mandate, or has not given up your job? It is therefore necessary to bring this Article 3 in line with Article 151 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Law on civil servants if he's the parent law. And the last thing. Of course, I agree with the evaluations on the political problems that the law will cause if the government changes. Not at local and regional level, it will vary, but at the state level quite certainly, because actually there will come professional people who need to serve the exercise of a particular political function or political option that has received the trust of the electorate will actually be politically on another political option. After all, personal political beliefs belong to them. That's not working. It must be discussed very seriously, but then, if we want to introduce ourselves, I don't mind having secretaries, deputy secretaries, chiefs, etc., but then I can't be party members. They can't be party members. Now we are entering the sphere of actually constitutional and legal position of man and citizen. Otherwise, if members of the parties are able to work on another political option that he was against in the election campaign. And after that. Well, it doesn't work like that, I think it should be quite different to set up and that's why I think, I'm thinking that this should actually be withdrawn from the procedure, and as we have in the procedure in the first reading of the amendment and addition of the Law on Local Self-Government needs in this Law on Local Self-Government in certain chapters... As follows, we have a technically developed law, actually to work out the question of what about officials, what about tenants, what about mayors, making sure that they will be elected directly in the future and that they have to have the full power to manage jobs with the responsibility of the representative body and the ability of the representative body to control them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But then it's a slightly different position than this one right over here, which is up to 1% of the value of the capital, right, the budget excuse me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72632	Thank you. Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72633	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to point out at the outset that it is clear that the proposing's intention to impose order in some way and that, after all the elections or after the elections at any level, he knows exactly which people the mandate and which ones he does not. Since this is the first reading of the law, allow me to take some of my comments from the experiences I had at the local level, which may have been partly presented by some of my colleagues on behalf of the clubs. In fact, it is about local elections, where it is indeed happening that for specific places such as the front points that have a kind of political function, public competitions are chosen by really political people. And that's how you actually concreteize the state. And what happens after the election? There is a situation where a change of government comes in a completely new set regardless of this or that set that finds people who are active in the opposite political option, who are even party officials of the opposite political option. So I think that the law in this part might need to be changed in a way that, if these places are already going to a public competition, that they can choose those people who are not active in political life and that would be the only way to actually go towards a concrete solution and professionalisation of a particular service, if it is already the head of the one chosen by the public competition. I'll put in a specific case. A year and a half ago, or more precisely in 2005 after the local elections, there was a change of government in Dubrovnik-Neretva County. The head of the economy was the head of the SDP county board. I'm saying, no matter, this is just one illustrative representation of the real situation. And then the question really arises, it could have been from HDZ that it came to the power of the SDP option or I don't know whose, HNS, HSP, HSS, anyone's, but the question is whether a high-ranking activist and this highly-ranked party official can be the head of the new political option, which is completely opposite and even step up publicly for his political option. So that's the question. I'm not going to talk about the state level, but we had a law ahead of us, I'm talking about the possibility that through this law you might think about these facts and actually that there's a restriction in terms of people who are officials, in such a more prominent position as frontal positions, that you simply don't allow people who are actively engaged in political life to commit themselves if experts really commit themselves to professional work, not parallel professional and political engagement. So, in this sense, I think that we should consider further changes in this law so that we do not really come to various levels in the situation that it is simply impossible to carry out the political will of those who are elected by the citizens to these local duties, or as someone here has already said to the management, that indeed local self-government has, above all, a governing function and in that sense, it is important to facilitate these people who have been chosen to actually carry out all that they have promised to the citizens and for which they have gained their trust. As far as the rest is concerned, this is absolutely acceptable to me, and it really is that it is really necessary to determine which functions and positions they are, and that, after the election, they know exactly which mandates they make available, and which ones they do not, continue to pursue professionally with their duties. Here in this sense, I wanted to try to contribute to this law, so in the second reading, too, to try and appreciate this part, that is, to consider the best way to solve it. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72634	Thank you. Three replicas, the first respected representative, Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72635	You have rightly warned Matesic about a problem in local self-government, but the problem you were talking about should not be solved at all by this law. Unfortunately, local self - administration officials and tenants today are in a completely unregulated state since the Law on Officials and Landowners has ceased to apply except for local officials and tenants. We have passed a new Law on State Administration which has been in force since 1.1, and the Law on Officials and Furnishers is applied to, I think, an adequate way to apply it to local officials and subsistence even though it does not appear to be the Law on Local Employees and Landowners and does not apply it at all. He only properly applied himself as with the Labour Act, so there are some combinations. Therefore, what you are talking about should be determined by the Law on local officials and tenants, or by a law that regulates the working status of people working in local regional self-government. Not with this power transfer law. Even today, you have a situation where there's a head office somewhere, and they're somewhere indefinite. You have them appointed or have passed the public tender. So this says this law shouldn't be passed like this. You have made another argument that this law should not be passed as far as local self-government is concerned until we resolve these other issues. And this second round about the assistants, so we agreed that they were government officials, and that's what we called them, that they're replaceable after the next election, and now in half of the term we tell them you're not expendable. Maybe someone was counting on him to be here for four years, and now he's going to have to work for the rest of his working life, as assistant minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72636	Replica response, Honored Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72637	Yes, my colleague, I agree with you that this is to be resolved by the Law on Local Servants, but it is clear that the Law on Civil Servants is also applicable, it is an obligation for all local self-government to apply this law, because that law is then in force until the new Law on Local Servants is passed. Therefore, there is no legal vacuum, I do not agree with you, because I know very well from local practice that there is no legal vacuum and that everyone is very much calling for this Law on civil servants and that I am based on it and they are exercising their rights. So you're not in that part of it you're wrong. Now that it's mentioned here, when local officials are mentioned, then I think it's an opportunity for this part to be processed, and in some ways regulated through this law, and in that sense I think there's going to be an improvement to the second reading of this law, and today we're really discussing it in a wide way, and we could really talk about different topics, about appointments, just to say, and the fact that in late 2003, after the election, the government that lost trust in the elections, that it still appointed some people to responsible functions. And that's what's important to stop. Such behavior is simply not good behavior. So, in that inter regnam until the HDZ authorities took over, when it took over December 23rd. Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72638	Next replica, honourable representative of Miroslav Korenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72639	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague, I find it interesting that your thesis to ban political work and action from the heads of the administrative departments. It seems to me that even from the constitutional point of view, it's a rather problematic thing. I warn you that the heads of the administrative departments, in principle, other than the administrative procedure in their department, are implementing the policy of the headship and the majority of the council or the assembly which is currently holding responsibility for a municipality, city or county. By saying that they can, that they can be banned from political work and that action is rather questionable. In addition, I ask you a question what if one is the head of one municipality or city, a place of residence, and works, or in another municipality or city. Can the second municipality then mean where he is not involved in his work politically? So that's a lot of problems, and it seems to me that banning some political work is enough, I think, a superficial thesis. It is more important whether he is doing his job correctly, professionally and in accordance with what the headship and mayor, the mayor, or the municipal chief in his district gives him plus his legal obligations. Everything else is empty stories. We talk all the time and we advocate that people be professional and correct in their work. But what are the current legal conditions? I don't think banning someone's political engagement stands. The second thing is if he works with his political engagement in favour of damage to the municipality or the city and within his working hours, it is a completely different story, but then there are official courts, it seems to me, and everything he can do, for which he can bear responsibility for the incorrectness of his professional action.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72640	Replica response, Honored Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72641	Thank you, Mr. President. You see, colleague Korenika, I'm going to give you a very clear example from which it's clear you're not right at all. In particular, both officials and police and military law enforcement must not be politically active. They can't be politically active. They can't be presidents of the political party, you understand? It is, therefore, that local politicians who have come exclusively by political will at the head's posts because this is the case. They came by political will after certain elections they came no matter if it is, I say, this or that party or option. They came politically after some elections in a position to set up a public tender for certain political places. That's what this is about. And they continue their political engagement. And by changing power, regardless, I say, which options, they continue their political engagement. They're doing the opposite of everyday work. There are various ways of obstruction, you know it very well, in which everything can be obstructed by someone's work. But if there's a place that really deserves professionalism, then it's frontal places. And there really should be professionals who won't deal in parallel with this political work, political engagement. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72642	And the esteemed representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72643	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Matušić, I would replicate you in part, namely, it is very clear that there are great dilemmas about this Law and that this Law is not on your part even when you say it seems that it is either very much yet to be done or should be withdrawn and re-proposed for a few months. In fact, it would certainly be good to reach some consensus around him. Because in the end, which is the purpose of all of this if some subsequent changes to the state government come as the first act to take place in Parliament to amend this Law. So, just by changing, we won't get anything. The only way we're going to get it is if we do it in quality or what's best for us to set it up. The problems about the so-called so-called professional, as you say, people who would behave as head of the local self-government offices are quite large and we as a party have advocated in the City of Zagreb in 2001 that these people are being placed through a public competition. However, the problems we faced in practice were numerous. In setting up, when publishing these public tenders, therefore not in the desire to set up our own people, but only to give the legal framework that it is a public tender, but in the election, you actually have a great lack of personnel. And you have a lack of personnel in large areas, and then what it looks like in smaller environments. Because it's not enough for such a front post that you're professional, for example. as an architect to make them a good head of the Office of Spatial Planning. It's simply not a qualification enough. In fact, at the rank of some officials, i.e. people who would be highly professional, I speak professionally, educated to be able to behave in such a position as the headmaster for some regents or resistors, in Croatia you do not have such highly educated people. It's like there's Serbs, it's in France. In France, management is being educated by people who are then doing the job. So, we came across a problem that we couldn't really set up quality people and we ended up back on the so-called. to the political people because we actually took out what we had from that minimalist offer. So we didn't, even though we wanted to do it, we couldn't do it. And I don't want to be any longer because I see a little time's up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72644	Replica response, Honored Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72645	Well, I agree, it is indeed present in many local environments and it is very difficult to find people who can respond to these tasks, but therefore the question arises whether to treat the leaders as political functions? Because if we set them up like that, then they'll put mandates at their disposal for a change of government. That's not a bad solution either. The worst solution is for someone to be chosen through a public tender, to be put politically, as in this case, as the chairman of a party's county board, not to repeat now, and the shift of power. So, the political set-up, that doesn't mean he's a good expert in the area. His option has lost the election and simply after the new elections it is logical that he and such a person, and thus the chosen one, puts his mandate at his disposal. Without further ado. So, or I'm saying, the other solution is to really professionalize what should be pursued in the right way. That we really have experts who will be properly and paid. We all know that the difference between local self-government, that it's a question of both stimuli and people, of people available in local self-government. It would be good to be professionals who do their job, and to be politically focused, of course, on the basis of the budget, based on all those programs, which is why people get trust from citizens, to focus their work. It's now, but the doubt is in the present situation which is a better solution. Announcing officials, not officials, but officials at certain levels, who, together with the change of powers, will make their mandates available or really depolitise those places in a way that does not allow the current policy to be done to those people who perform such functions.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72646	Thank you. Honorable representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72647	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. According to my deep assessment of the adoption of this law in 2004, and also of these amendments and additions, I believe that they are civilizationally I would also say the political step of Croatia at the level of the countries of the European Union, but also other states of parliamentary democracy in terms of and in the direction of relations between political parties, and respecting the will of citizens who have expressed in either local or national elections. This bill, amendments and additions to the law and the existing law set out the rules of the game after the election of who goes, who stays, and depending on the results of the citizens' will, I believe that these provisions, these additional provisions, should be incorporated into the local level. On the other hand, in the law itself, the existing law is well-determined as well as in addition to the law obligations of those that go in terms of financial and other relevant data which are mandatory to give authority that has come. In this regard, I think that we will avoid bickerings happening across Croatia from the smallest municipalities to the largest cities and the adoption of such a law, I think it is certainly necessary. On the other hand, when it comes to state administration, when it comes to the administrations of municipalities, cities and counties, this bill will certainly mean stability, professionality, stability, professionality and functionality, or certain continuity that citizens expect from state administrations as such, regardless of political changes at the level of units of local self-government and at the level of state. Article 7 of the current law lays down, in fact, the rules of the game concerning board members and companies of trade which are of interest to the Republic of Croatia and which have been established by the Croatian Parliament. It would be my suggestion to build upon this provisions in amendments and additions to the laws that also members of the congregations, or supervisory boards of commercial societies, which are of interest to the general, city, or county, that they also place their mandates at their disposal because they will be replaced in other ways, but that this would be at a certain cultural and political level then it would be better for such provisions to be incorporated into the amendments and additions of the laws and what happens at country level to be applied, i.e. the same model to be at the level of municipalities and cities, or county. In all this, however, in the time of government handover, I think the worst is the first, or second month after the handover took place. What's this about? When there are political changes in a certain city or municipality I will say in the experience of Sinj, on... what happened with us, and then for new systematicization, is increasing and reducing certain departments so that, by changing these systems in the first place, they come to the head. [[You don't understand.]] Since they have been selected through competitions, they have a permanent working relationship in the same municipality, or the city concerned, and they must remain in the city administration and what is happening. After every change of government in the units of local self-government, we have a multiplication of city officials who through three or four such rotations are all expressions of the political will of citizens who went out to the elections, de facto we come into a situation that city, municipal or county administrations are too bulky, inefficient that people have nothing to do etc. I think in that direction, that's my personal opinion, that the leaders should share fate but that should be regulated by another law, not this law. That we should share the fate of political changes at the level of municipalities, i.e. cities just to preserve the city's, municipal administration as such, to be as effective as possible, as best as possible, and not to say, I will repeat this again, that after three, four or five mandates, and provided that political changes occur in terms of the arrival of other political options then we have a multiplication of city services where de faco is the one generation of administrations that often citizens themselves condemn as inefficient, as tromes and that they are not, and often they are not in the service of those they should be. Here in this direction I wanted to present my thoughts, but I will certainly repeat, I think that we should support this bill, amend and supplement the law, because that one is a political and, above all, a civilizational step in Croatia when it comes to the relations of political parties and respect for the will of citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72648	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72649	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to rephrase my esteemed colleague's statement that this is a significant political step. I am not convinced that it is a significant political step, but a freezing state that has occurred in an inappropriate way. People who are in positions today and in local self-government and the state government have come to those positions, so I can say without exception to all the leadership positions in that entire system, they have come politically. Now instead of building a house from the ground up, it takes a long time and it costs a lot, but the only way to keep the house safe is to somehow look and not crash first chance. We'll freeze the current state of the bad architectural solution and build on it some more bricks. What do I think the house should be built on the ground? Professionalisation should begin at the lowest level. Well, people, let's be honest with each other, I know the situation in the county I come from, and it's in the city where I come from, and there's political will and even one man in that county. Even one man. To the reference, not to talk about frontal or principalal places, it's not at all possible for someone from the opposite political option to enter those places, that I don't know how qualified he is, that I don't know how smart he is, that I don't know how capable he is. What's going to happen this way by freezing this? You're right, you're a colleague. We'll increase the number of employees. We'll leave the current directors behind. We'll put them aside for a while. We'll bring in new ones. I know a public firm where seven directors work now. Seven choices, seven executives. The directors stayed at the assistant director's post. And so seven times. Now we're going to do this if we accept this happening at the level of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72650	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72651	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague of yours is on the trail, absolutely on the trail of your party colleague, Mr. Radoš, who suggests something else. And you're actually proposing the same thing. It's about the next one. So everything from the porters to the top needs to be cleaned up, cleaned up, and based on the political options that should possibly come and should wait maybe 10, 15, 50 or 100 years for you to be satisfied that the HNS comes into power and then you determine the criteria that would be permanent. I'll tell you on the example of Sinj. Even the communal directors where this change was being resolved, there are a year and a half that it happened, and I'm not talking about the leaders and other people who were chosen by the basis of a public competition. In any case, the current Government, this and that, the current city heads, these and they must determine and join the reorganisation of the state administration and must, under the laws that we bring here to Parliament, translate it into the will of the citizens. I believe this law is about to follow the will of the citizens on the one hand. That only those who need to go change, and that on the other hand, what people expect and what citizens expect to professionalise both state and local administration in a way that benefits all of us. Your concept goes de facto at first means from the porter over the driver to the next. I think those thoughts are behind us. Actually, they're not looking behind us, but they're such political solutions behind us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72652	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72653	Thank you, Mr. President. Honored representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. This Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the procedure for the handover of authorities is the expression of a frightened order which is wanted after the latter is secured for the next elections when it loses power. Of course, here is something that even Article 1 in the bill itself could be acceptable to some extent, but that, too, could be discussed. But he's not the point of this law at all. The essence of this Law is Article 3 where, now in this Act, the existing Law on the Handover of Authorities is incorporated as irreplaceable all ministerial assistants, Head of the Office of the Government and Secretary of the Ministrys. There is no question at all how long it is and because not one single ministerial assistant has remained in this government since 2003, none has remained. None of them were left, and if any of them were left, then they had to access HDZ. And we accept that that's the way it is. We can accept that even if that's the case. Yeah, well, maybe it's not just HDZ, it's their coalition. I apologize to my colleague Kovacevic. Maybe he's some HSP guy, that could be him. And now it defends itself very fiercely that the ministerial assistants who have all come in turn for a political likeness to become immeasurable. Same situation in the '90s with judges. First they were all angry, others fled, and some of them were free to leave, and we won't talk about them. And some have just come to better positions, paid, because we know then how much the judges' salaries were, embarrassingly low. And then when Needy's DSV named them, all of a sudden they became a constitutional category of immeasurable judge. And now the same thing wants to happen. And she's really talking about your party for losing power. So at least to preserve such positions and high positions. And you know well or not just you, it's general, it's a general voice of the public. Which is why the 2003 coalition lost power. Literally, people objected to us. You didn't do everything you promised, you didn't replace people so you could conduct your policies, and you didn't, and the thieves didn't end up in jail. So that's what the citizens tell us. And that's what you hear citizens tell us. And you're secretly laughing, and now you're laughing at that fact here forcibly. And as the state administration works and these people you want to stone after the election, so the elections are too high. The elections are too high, so in the event of a loss of power, we would rule by this law anyway. So, this is the first, first reading of the law, so by the second reading of the law, we can expect the ministers to also be non-replaceable, and until the final proposal that the prime minister is not funny. Well, then there's your choice. So this power is not chosen by the will of the people because here the people based on this law have no more to decide than the government must come from above. You think you're here with the transparency of God. And you see by your work how much this administration and the ministry have done to the citizens by their illegal work? Data from the State's Attorney's Office from the report we had the opportunity to hear on the Justice Committee. In cases where the State has been sued for the total value and weight of these claims, it amounts to a total claim of 10 billion kuna. So let one third be established and, most of all, 70% manage to sue citizens against the illegal work of the state, i.e. So let's call it two-thirds, that's 75 billion. Make it half that's 5 billion. And you want to stone such a situation and condition. There was also talk here about public competitions. My colleague, Radosh, was talking about how they were broken. However, the situation is even worse when they are set up correctly. You're looking for this guy with seven years of experience or three years of experience and 45 days. There are such competitions. But let's let it go, too. The unquestionable fact is that public procurement has become a farce. As to how to explain, here I am in possession of a single appointment of a solution for the appointment of judicial practitioners where the son of a state official is appointed, and it is explained in the explanation that he is also valued in the social situation. That's it, gentlemen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72654	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. The first is Honored Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72655	Your Honor, Mr. President, I have two incorrect allegations from my esteemed colleague, Ingrid. First, she said none of the former ministerial assistants remained after a change of government in 2003. There are many left, say the Ministry of Family and Defence left your member Vinko Mikulić, let's say Mr Antolovic who was. ... Your member Vinko Mikulić Bandicev. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yeah, he's a member of the SDP. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Since he's not a member of the SDP, ask him? Yeah, he's a member of the SDP, he stayed as a member of the SDP. Antolovic was Vujic's assistant, now as state secretary. Niko Raic. And this one's a member of the SDP. And since HSP, no one could have stayed when it wasn't, and the truth never became. So it's the same. You may have been a little bit more zealous about cleaning up.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72656	Okay. Not now, let's go parliamentaryly. Dear representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic rectification of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72657	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! I'm correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague Ingrid Antičević. First, in 2003, there was not a single ministerial assistant left in our ministries. We would do well to know the statistical data so that it is known what happened in 2003, unlike the 3rd dictation of January 2000, when thirty-five ambassadors and general consuls were replaced within eight days, when the State Secretary and Assistant Ministers were removed, when all those who went and ever thought in life to the Croatian Democratic Community were removed from the Ministry of Interior because of the profession and professionalism that you today represent people here and were witnesses on Mark's square, when the slaves were removed, when the cleaning girls were replaced, etc. About the '90s. The judges' and judges' shifts were replaced only by those who opposed the order of creation of the Croatian state. Gentlemen, as for other changes at the time when you were Minister of the Government of Mr. President Racan and my government, at the time and my government, you were also my minister, don't say what you were doing and how many and how many you were, you replaced three judges and set up those who were your political options.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72658	Okay. Then the esteemed representative Frano Matusic's correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72659	Thank you, Mr. President. It is incorrect that none of the assistant ministers in the former assembly, so until 2003, remained in their positions, that's incorrect, that's what my colleagues said. But it's even more incorrect that those who may have stayed that they had to move to HDZ, it's even more incorrect if you can say so. It is also incorrect that you were replaced by citizens in late 2003 because you did not put someone in prison or because you did not replace someone. They replaced you because you didn't know how to run this country, and that's because you didn't know who was running this country because there were five, six, three, four, five parties because you didn't know who was government in this country and because of the bad moves of the former government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72660	And the esteemed representative of Shima Przenja is correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72661	Here, I'll go to the local Zadar space, it's the easiest place for me, so my colleague Anticevic will see how much she's done wrong. He says they haven't replaced anyone, so I should probably get ten minutes of what happened in Zadar alone. And here's the first one. Goranka Bulj, secretary at the Ministry of Finance, was a staff member and a derivator of all and defenders of Rado Bobanovic, who was six months and a referent, also replaced him from the post of referent. Number two, the head of the state office you name Ivo Gregov as the worst of the eleven members there as they were called and you're replacing them completely until then. Number three, chief of police Catalenic, you know who you bring to Zadar to take care of HDZ and others. Number four or five, head of the Defense Office, as it is called, you're changing him too because he wasn't up to it. Six or so, you change HV officers and bring in those you consider necessary. In addition, you personally participate in the opening, or in enabling the opening of three clinics in primary health care to your people beyond the standard of the number of hospitals that were. I can go on like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72662	And the esteemed representative, Maria Byte, is correcting an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72663	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am correcting the incorrect allegations by counterpart Anticevic-Marinovic that the loss of the SDP power is because you have not replaced the people. My colleagues listed a number of reasons, that's an incorrect assumption. You have even replaced the presidents and members of the boards of directors around the hospitals throughout Croatia, and so has academic Padovan been replaced as unprofessional. The unprofessional were replaced and similar, replaced by experts, so the academic Padovan turned out to be unprofessional at the head of the Governing Council of the Sisters of Mercy. Namely, you lost power because of the failure to solve the economic and social picture of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72664	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72665	... said what we were doing... [[You can't hear the speaker, you can't hear it.]] I'm just trying to determine what people have done to us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Few people have been replaced and we couldn't implement our policies. And if that were true and my correction is correct and the fact that in all of Zadar and Zadar County... We admit it. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72666	Okay. It's not a breach of the rules of procedure. It's a correction of the quote. Replica is a respected representative of Jagoda Majska-Martinčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72667	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You see, dear colleagues, I don't need to look for examples from my profession around me at all. I'll just tell you my example. In 1996, I became an assistant minister of culture not because of my two blue eyes but because of top professional characteristics. In 2000, I was the only one when your new minister flew away, and right away, and I was told in person that they were very sorry to have to remove me but that the pressure in the party was too much. And my qualifications remained the same for those four years as my two blue eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72668	Those eyes are blue. Replicate response, respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72669	I don't understand your replica at all. Is it now in your blue eyes how well you described yourself or in your superior expertise? ... Very modest both. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72670	And the eyes are a mirror of the soul, the poet says. And the next replica, distinguished representative Marijan Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72671	Dear MPs, I would not speak of this from the local level and what all my colleagues have now said in their own replicas or corrections to an incorrect quote. I would say from the experience of the Ministry of the Interior we know how many Croatian defenders were chased from the police and from the appropriate functions in the police, which were only H of HDZ. At the same time, 300 people were admitted to the ministry without competition. 300 people without a contest. Whose frames? So that's what their wing is "no peace to the porter." When we come to power from the porter, we need to replace everything. We are too small a people to be able to replace all professional people with any change of government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72672	Replicate response, respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72673	You're also saying something I didn't say at all. I here specify this provision of Article 3 that ministerial assistants remain immeasurable. But when you raise that question on your own about the effectiveness and work of the police, then I will tell you exactly about the issue and the Zadar case, including the Zadar SDP. When a three-pound rock flew into our room 20 centimeters from our secretary and it was all registered officially and proven. And these experts of yours characterized it as damage to other people's things. 30 centimetres of glass. Well, don't you think the SDP would call the police because he knows he's got a lot of work to do in 30 centimeters of squares? And on this occasion, I give you your confession, therefore, to those experts who are very capable and discovered the perpetrator of a bank of pigs in Koprivnica, where there were 2 thousand kunas. They haven't found a real actor named Brodosplit yet. I hope those experts who stayed there, who you set up, will do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72674	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the Government, representatives of the motionary. So I have to say that this bill leaves a schizophrenic situation in the state administration. In fact, first of all, I should refer to the debates that claimed that the law should be passed because the new government would implement politics. This really legitimateization that people don't understand what the task of the state administration, the administration as a whole, and what that means is depoliticalization, which is written down by the Constitution. What does it mean to depolitize the state administration that's written in the Constitution? How would the state administration conduct this policy? And the local administration, how would you conduct politics? And the Constitution says depoliticization of the state administration. So what do you stand for? To drown Croatia in a political state. I don't think so. The state administration has a basic mission to be a service to citizens, and when it comes to citizens of the state administration, then he doesn't care who's in the political chair. Then he doesn't care who's in charge and he can't be interested. What does he care who the Prime Minister is when he has to come pay his taxes on the counter? What's this about? Of course, the state administration has other functions, and that should be considered. Therefore, when it comes to law enforcement, the state administration must be depolitical, so far away from the influence of politics regardless of who is in the political chair, when it comes to law enforcement. Of course, I repeat, the state administration has other tasks. She is sometimes a minister’s service and a government service, a professional service, and we can discuss it and of course we need to discuss it. And when he makes motions for his own to say so to the employer, then, of course, the employer gives direction to what it will look like. And here you're saying that if you're not good with a political option that's in power, you'll have trouble with the government. That's what we told the citizens of Croatia today. What's a citizen interested in when he commits a traffic violation that is a government in the state? What's he interested in? He doesn't care about that. However, there is a problem to be talked about and counterpart Rados is an internal witness and an outside witness as the state administration behaves. Here's an example. Unfortunately, it makes sense that I will set an example that occurred during this government. It is known to the Croatian public that the Ministry of Finance, the tax administration, issued a decision on the payment of HTV tax. We've all been informed that HTV needs to pay taxes. And then the Prime Minister shows up as II. The tax authority also says ministers withdraw the tax collection solution. It's the political administration. It's the political state administration. There is no dispute because the tax does not determine politics, it must not be determined. The tax determines the referendum, the tax administration based on the law and the facts. If there wasn't a policy impact, would it be logical for them to tell us from the outside that the Money Laundering Control Office isn't working? Oh, there's no reference who won't keep his job and do his job if he's independent, then he's easy to get professional. If he's not independent, he'll hardly ever become professional. Is it possible without the influence of policy on the state's right to the first-degree body, the Government's Office for the Monitoring of Public Procurement misses in the second-degree procedure either by an independent state body of four billion kunas in per appeal. Is it possible to come to the state administration in Croatia, and it deals with this and ask where I can buy a building particle, I want to build a house. When are we gonna have that? Well, that means creating an independent and independent state administration. Is it possible to come to the land section of the court and request an immediate release from the land books, but that it is valid. Very rare. Is it possible to come to, say, car control and say I'm not going to this station or this county, I'm going to go to another one. Same country. It's not possible. It's not possible since the last law. Now we can say that we have depolitized the Croatian state administration because it says here that an employee of the state administration cannot be a member of the party. That's not what the law or the Constitution predicts at all. But he can't deal with politics if he's gonna be a government employee. He cannot deal with politics because he must enforce the law regardless of what the political option is in power. When we talk about a shift and if we talk about a shift in our own sense, and here it is mostly spoken by its own feelings or by some small segment after changing the government of either the county, or in the city, or in the state. Well, it's my feeling, and I have a few reasons for that, even a statement from HDZ senior officials that in 2003, let's say everyone from the state level was removed if it wasn't protected by a coalition partner, a new coalition partner or someone from the top of the state administration, every one who made fun of the SDP in the past term. It's a legitimate feeling of mine. And that's why the confirmation was one of the officials who said here about the Parliament speaker, we took the People's Newspaper, and we took government acts and saw who she named, and we replaced that. This is not worth anything to Croatian citizens, neither option nor option, because the system is not being built. We have in Croatia the destruction of illegally built objects as if to destroy it will be an insult to another country, as if to bring down others. That way, we wouldn't crash someone else's. Do you think it's the citizens from or at least everyone or at least most of them put their hand in their pocket and started throwing their money away like it was someone else's value? ... I advocate it's the state's fault she didn't arrange the spatial plans, pitched good and made it possible for citizens with money and needs to build. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, we can say it was for Francis of Emperor Joseph, but that doesn't help the problem. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's just taking off responsibility or quasing. Let's go back to the bill. What is the logic if, the proponent advocates that volunteer protection of certain duties. The example works, he says, should remain the deputy secretary of state, and according to logic, what the deputy secretary of state is doing. He's replacing the secretary. ... Well, no, I'm not afraid of anything. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] As far as painting is concerned, I overcame it a long time ago. It is about whether we are building a system or not to build a system, whether we are contributing to the development of Croatia or not. If we're going to protect someone from our own party interests, then it's far more honest. We're behind it and stuff. So this bill is really not an aid in reforming the state administration and depoliticalisation of the state administration, and this is what citizens and the European Union are asking us to do. That's why it really can't pass this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72675	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Ivo Lončar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72676	Thank you, Mr. President. In the first part of his debate, he said somewhat inspiredly that citizens should not be interested in who the Prime Minister is because it is irrelevant from the point of view of the functioning of the government. I think it's completely incorrect because if that were the case, then the question is why is it multi-party and why does it vote? On the other hand, it's also unacceptable for me because I want to personally want whoever wants to be Prime Minister, I am, for example, the Prime Minister to be Zdravko Ronko and his deputy Ivica Racan. That's what I want to know. I'm always into Ronk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72677	Okay. Dear Representative Marijan Mlinarić, second correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72678	Mr. President. Mr. Leco also says that citizens should not be interested in which political orientations are the head or the referent, absolutely not, especially if this referent or the head of the tax control is only the members of that party to which he does not belong. So there's a problem and we're fighting for depolitisation of the state administration and it's in our best interests, but we have to start building it and it's absolutely inappropriate that one in a wide variety of perfidual ways is one referent, one supervisor can degrade the other side and thus contribute to the situation as much as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72679	Replications. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72680	Your Honor, Mr. President. I can agree with most of the presentations of the esteemed colleague Lek, but he took a bad example because he took Mr. Radosh's presentation. Oh, there's no reference who won't keep his job and do his job if he's independent, then he's easy to get professional. If he's not independent, he'll hardly ever become professional. Is it possible without the influence of policy on the state's right to the first-degree body, the Government's Office for the Monitoring of Public Procurement misses in the second-degree procedure either by an independent state body of four billion kunas in per appeal. Is it possible to come to the state administration in Croatia, and it deals with this and ask where I can buy a building particle, I want to build a house. When are we gonna have that? Well, that means creating an independent and independent state administration. Is it possible to come to the land section of the court and request an immediate release from the land books, but that it is valid. Very rare. Is it possible to come to, say, car control and say I'm not going to this station or this county, I'm going to go to another one. Same country. It's not possible. It's not possible since the last law. Now we can say that we have depolitized the Croatian state administration because it says here that an employee of the state administration cannot be a member of the party. That's not what the law or the Constitution predicts at all. But he can't deal with politics if he's gonna be a government employee. He cannot deal with politics because he must enforce the law regardless of what the political option is in power. When we talk about a shift and if we talk about a shift in our own sense, and here it is mostly spoken by its own feelings or by some small segment after changing the government of either the county, or in the city, or in the state. Well, it's my feeling, and I have a few reasons for that, even a statement from HDZ senior officials that in 2003, let's say everyone from the state level was removed if it wasn't protected by a coalition partner, a new coalition partner or someone from the top of the state administration, every one who made fun of the SDP in the past term. It's a legitimate feeling of mine. And that's why the confirmation was one of the officials who said here about the Parliament speaker, we took the People's Newspaper, and we took government acts and saw who she named, and we replaced that. This is not worth anything to Croatian citizens, neither option nor option, because the system is not being built. We have in Croatia the destruction of illegally built objects as if to destroy it will be an insult to another country, as if to bring down others. That way, we wouldn't crash someone else's. Do you think it's the citizens from or at least everyone or at least most of them put their hand in their pocket and started throwing their money away like it was someone else's value? ... I advocate it's the state's fault she didn't arrange the spatial plans, pitched good and made it possible for citizens with money and needs to build. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, we can say it was for Francis of Emperor Joseph, but that doesn't help the problem. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's just taking off responsibility or quasing. Let's go back to the bill. What is the logic if, the proponent advocates that volunteer protection of certain duties. The example works, he says, should remain the deputy secretary of state, and according to logic, what the deputy secretary of state is doing. He's replacing the secretary. ... Well, no, I'm not afraid of anything. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] As far as painting is concerned, I overcame it a long time ago. It is about whether we are building a system or not to build a system, whether we are contributing to the development of Croatia or not. If we're going to protect someone from our own party interests, then it's far more honest. We're behind it and stuff. So this bill is really not an aid in reforming the state administration and depoliticalisation of the state administration, and this is what citizens and the European Union are asking us to do. That's why it really can't pass this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72681	Replication response, distinguished representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72682	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Kovacevic. I couldn't understand in your statement that you agree or disagree. There's discretion in your statement. Here's the thing. Here's a better example. Direct interference with the state administration when the prime minister says "I am imposing an investigation and an emergency". Directly. It's the destruction of the legal system. ... And I'm not ma'am, please don't recognize myself. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I didn't say which prime minister, don't recognize yourself. Prime Minister as a function. Don't recognize yourself. Which prime minister, I didn't say that. So I said that Jozo Rados is a good witness inside and outside how the government works and why it works that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72683	Replica, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72684	I would rephrase to an esteemed colleague in the part where in his debate he referred to, in my opinion, inaccurately, incorrectly regarding the implementation of the administrative procedure. And in other words, what he said about spatial-planning documentation now that we have in the territory of the Republic of Croatia in relation to this all we have the opportunity to see about the destruction of illegally built objects. In fact, Mr. Leko, from your debate, would be able to conclude that the administrative procedure is actually carried out by us, beyond all regulations, based on political will. That there is absolutely no professionalism in the first or second degree, no profession to decide on the things in the administrative procedure. I will only repeat, of course, that any first-degree solution when it is settled in administrative proceedings not only exists, but also that complete procedure is also subject to judicial, of course, control through the Constitutional Court, therefore, by the initiation of the administrative dispute. So, by suing and in that sense, therefore, surveillance can be carried out. And in particular, I was somewhat startled by the fact that in this way you put in place any prime minister, any minister who can absolutely in certain administrative matters in such a way as you caricate, let's just say, arbitrate in administrative matters. The second thing, as far as spatial-planned documentation is concerned, it was replicated even in a way, you know very well what the situation from 2000 to 2003 was related to spatial-planning documentation in the space of the entire Republic of Croatia. And just as Mrs. Marine Dropulic's team has put this thing together in a way that sees efficiency, that spatial plan documentation is almost entirely pred, in terms of legal adoption itself, and that its team actually introduces order into that segment of the functioning of the state administration where there was absolutely lawlessness between 2000 and 2003. Well, you know very well, even with regard to the correctness of commenting on that segment of state administration, I don't think your qualifications were right.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72685	Replication response, distinguished representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72686	Dear colleague Tomljanovic. Of course, if the glass is half empty or half full, it's a matter of taste and optimism. But as a lawyer, you certainly know that a significant number of administrative procedures in Croatia do not end within the legal deadline. You can't argue here because I know these facts very well and I know the data well and I know the administrative procedure, publicly speaking. There is indeed a very significant, very significant impact of politics. Is this about spatial planning, Croatia had spatial plans and urban plans, so they were torn down by decree. The decree is down. Secondly, it is the ministry's job under the applicable law, and otherwise the state administration, to control the entire territory. And thirdly, it is the task of every government and both these governments and previous and future governments to try to do everything in advance to reduce the damage to their citizens. Let's let go now whether the scissors and canvas are in the Ministry of Space Planning or not. I think so. I think they are, I think they are because it gives consent to spatial plans. It gives consent to spatial plans regardless of what the political option is. That's what we're different about. That's what we're different about, and we'll stay with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72687	And the esteemed representative Krunoslav Markovnović, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72688	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I guess my colleague Leco asked a rhetorical question when the time would come for a man to come to the state administration and ask where he would build, and I hope never again. Because that's how it was until the '90s. They took the land for invaluable, gave them some charity, then they dispersed in the former municipalities. So they sold very expensive, very expensive sales, and we got neighborhoods with streets of 4 meters wide and with houses, like, on land 15 times 15 meters. So, one totally inhumane condition because the former owners were left without a country that could normally be worth it, it was far, far more. There are real estate agencies that do it, and a man can go there. There are in municipalities and cities of people who can say you can build here and here, but the state administration I don't think has anything to do with it. Next, you said... He says "emergency" and the system collapses. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You see, in Parliament, we don't usually make mistakes. We handed over everything to the State's Attorney's office last year, proved to be Mr. Radiir Cacic, and we didn't say urgently just not to tear down the system and it wasn't urgent. It's not happening anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72689	Replication response, distinguished representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72690	My colleague Markovanovic, around the last state and the last system, have no need to pollemize. Lived in the same system, I don't care anymore. But if you were against the standards of the European Union, I'm already worried about that. In the European Union systems, you come to the Office for Spatial Planning and there you see the entire cadastre and the layout of the space, the number of particles, the purpose of the particle, the size of the particle and the size of the object you can build. If you weren't let them send you about the Parliament's cost of seeing something like that and even in Eastern European countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72691	Thank you. Dear Representative Emil Tomjanovic. We've got three more deputies, so I think we'll finish this debate and then...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72692	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm really going to try very briefly not to repeat myself, I think my colleagues from my club are the core and my debates have been brought out. However, I will also say that this regulation in the first reading, since it is the first reading, is undoubtedly to be supported because it really relies on two basic principles or principles. So the first principle or principle is the principle of depoliticalism in terms of the functioning of the state administration. So, on the one hand, depolitisation, and on the other hand, the functioning of the state administration and the other is the principle of professionalisation in the state administration, which I would really like to stress in particular because it really needs to promote expertise, competence and knowledge as basic criteria in the behaviour of business in the state administration system, so in the system of functioning of the state administration. Of course, this regulation or regulation of the procedure for the handover of the authorities should also be regulated in the frameworks, and I am also particularly emphasising, the already accepted national programme for the control of corruption, which has promoted the right to prohibit and sanction human rights changes motivated by rematch exclusively of political nature. So the politicisation motivated by the rematch of political nature, regardless of what level of government it was, was about the municipality, the city or the state level. So much in principle about the regulation proposal itself and now allow me just so very briefly to warn in my presentation of two open-minded things that appear within the framework of the new proposed legal solutions. The first thing I would like to refer to is that it is a duty to subdue the report, i.e. to submit a specific report on the commitments taken rather than the subordinated commitments from the date of the handover of the authorities. The second situation is also a ban on the conclusion of contracts on rights and obligations during the time period from the day of the regular elections to the day of the handover of the authorities. As for the duty of subsidising the report, I absolutely support this norm, but it is my opinion that something is missing, missing, and what if one of these former mayors and mayors simply comes and says I won't give it away. So, in my opinion, you should put one form of sanctions, it doesn't have to be a criminal sanction, it can in that sense also be another way to streamline, my personal proposal would be to be in a material sense, a monetary sense, and even to link it to that provision of the law that protects these former mayors and mayors, not to protect them, but to give them the right even six months after they've been resolved, even to receive a salary for that job so that disrespecting, for example, these legal provisions might need to be linked to those material rights that should then be settled if he does not fulfil the obligation from this proposed legal solution. And secondly, the ban on the conclusion of the contract, but this article 10.b has a whole series of exceptions, so four exceptions. The first is if the failure of the contract causes significant material damage, and the second exception is if the contract is concluded in order to enforce the law. The third exception is the implementation of earlier commitments and the fourth exception to the completion of earlier jobs, which are presumed to be completed by the entry into office of the newly elected official. My question is, and then what can't? So in the context of this standard, which is so well-conceived, I think that in this sense too much opportunity is opened and even on that one twelve of the total incomes when we put this into one relationship and everyday life and the resolution of these situations at city and municipal level, perhaps in that sense, the manipulation should only be immediately to find a solution that will, in a higher way, foresee the possibility that no conclusion of a contract will take place in this time period when it really should not take place the larger financial resources from the city budget, or municipal budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72693	Thank you. Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72694	Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, motionaries. I have to admit, I don't understand the purpose of passing this law. Because just for the sake of warning, we are in the process and we need to begin the procedure alone until the end of negotiations on entering the European Union. Screening is near the end, and we have adopted only three European laws in this House if I am not mistaken in the spring session of the Croatian Parliament. At the session of this House, this High House that we received and started yesterday, there is only one minor amendment to the Waste Act, not on the agenda of any European law. At the same time, we are passing laws that should be applied after the 2009 local elections, at least according to the proposings. I would like to hear in this High House that we get in some way the dynamics of making all the laws in the Republic of Croatia, and also the alignment with the European Union and which exists, we are only obviously late. Because there was an interesting lecture by Ambassador Mr. Drobnjak, our chief negotiator who simply asked my question about the dynamics of law-making, said that such issues also contribute to the government's pressure to work on legislative activities. Of course, we are legislators, but most often the government proposes to this House of High Law. Obviously, the government is not doing its job, and we are all proposing laws like this to the public and to all of us. Whether I want to admit it or not, my impression is that that's exactly the way it is. I would like to hear from the proposings who are the reasons for changing the law to the third law relating to Article 6 of the original law. Let us not forget that this very parliamentary majority passed the law by its will in 2004. What are the reasons why all of a sudden the assistant ministers, the deputy secretaries are excluded from all of this? I have to say it's an alibi, because I'd like to get a report under this law, so here's my initiative. When we discuss the second reading of this law, I would ask you, Mr. Secretary of State, to give us an analysis, so if you need to in 2000, and in 2003 and 2004, what ministerial assistants are left behind, and what are the new ones? Because, unfortunately, the government's mandate has also been replaced by ministerial assistants, and in some cases, ministerial assistants who did not have the legal conditions as officials to be ministerial assistants have been brought to their post. I can ask you or have changed the ministerial assistants who remained from the coalition government and were members of the HDZ. Probably because a picturesque colleague, Leko, said it because they shook the SDP's hand. So I have an initiative, and please give us that analysis so that we don't clap left and right, if we have to do it in 2000 and 2004, because the fact that we don't have an orderly, no matter how much we talk, we don't have an orderly system for the promotion of civil servants. By my deep conviction, the assistant minister should be somewhere the height of a state official's career. This way by setting up ad hoc changes and by cementing because this, this proposal, Article 3, relating to Article 6. The electoral law is nothing more than a cementing of the current state and apparently the current majority is afraid of parliamentary elections because it could lose in elections, and then what? As far as locals are concerned, I agree that something should be done but the fact that it needs to be significantly wider. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Which, who goes, means it's about those reports. I believe that the politicalisation and politics throughout Croatia, leaving which administration to the next at the city, municipality or county level, should nevertheless standardise these reports. What are they bringing? What do they necessarily contain to know in public what this loss is? What's an unsettled commitment? Because for daily political purposes, we are all often ready to say anything together if, the goal justifies the means after all. What's always a real danger in local and regional self-government is that if you want to change someone, and besides this law, you're going to reorganize. That was done after the last local elections. You haven't formally replaced anyone, you've reorganized, you've made a new choice. This one just fell off in passing. Therefore, it seems to me that this should still be done so that we have better and better quality and clearer rules of the game. Here I will be at the end and direct, so I will ask the assistant minister, I would like to, was at the Ministry of the former Maritime, Transport and Communications, after all and every new set, every new current majority in the Croatian Parliament changed both the detours and the names of the ministries. Let's remember what happened in 2004. That's why these reorganizations lose someone, but here I'm going to ask one question because examples can be good or bad, but here it is. Mrs Tatjana Holjevac changed as Assistant Minister Calmeta, you can't say she's not an expert, an outsider, she's been replaced. I'd like to hear the reasons. Is that professionalization? A member of the HDZ is now being cemented. Mr. Bezev has been changed in the road traffic management. A person has been brought in who had no conditions to be an assistant minister but appointed by the government's will. It's going to cement. So we still need to know that if you've passed one law, so be principled and stay on the same track. If you're afraid of choices, I know you're going to replicate and tell me we're not afraid, then why are you afraid and if you claim to win the election easily, then why are you protecting all these people? It's not on the trail of professionalism in the administration. Because let's not argue, and that's often said in these discussions in one part of the debate today. The state administration, especially at lower levels, will do their job whoever is in power, and have worked so far. The other thing is whether someone is politically willing or willing to prevent them from doing certain jobs or, as was said, being mean and sending one to another, not sending in inspections or anything like that. It's a matter of professionalism and of those who control them, who are their superiors. Each of these officers has a superior who should take care of it. Finally, both the State Inspectorate and the individual authorities of the state administration have their annual, monthly, and often weekly work plans that they do or do not implement. Professionalism will be more and more in Croatia, but I fear that by passing such a law specifically related to Article 3 will not be. We're going to cement a condition that isn't good, and it seems to me that we have more important laws that we need to pass in this House of Highs, not like this. This needs to be done and that drastic dorado, and here I am appealing to you Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament let's deal with more laws that are related to Croatia's entry into the European Union and raising the standards of the lives of Croatian citizens than those that seem to me to be in favour of only one narrow circle of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72695	Thank you. Dear representative Zdenka Babic-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72696	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I will briefly refer to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the procedure for handing over authorities. 16 years of Croatian state and at the beginning we said Croatia is in turns and its path to every arrangement, every sight of its life will last longer. We freed the Croatian state in, defended it in 5 years. This part of Croatian history is proudly spoken of by each of us. But it certainly takes longer for the state of Croatia to turn into one legal state. In a democratic state, in a country where every law will come across no disdain as it happened today by the opposition of the SDP, but I was thinking that you gentlemen would take this law on the handover of the government as we brought to national level in 2004, that you would also accept this law at, for local, handovers at local level. If we had a law on handing over authorities at local level, then we would have avoided the sheriff's behavior in the last few years. I won't mention any political options. And one or the other or the third and the fourth. So let's not constantly compare Croatia with countries that have been built for 50 or 100 years. Let's compare ourselves and admit that this is a good law. I repeat once again to avoid what was happening in the Republic of Croatia. And rematchism, which happened in Croatia that in time, I will not mention the year when not only ministers and ministers' assistants changed but cleaners, gravediggers and, gravediggers all and everyone else changed. And in the hope that this law will solve what really needed to be resolved and depolitized by the state administration I hope that until the second reading, Mr. Proposer, that he will be a little longer, that we will write a few amendments and I will accept one proposal from my colleague Cain because he said he loves Sasha Broz as much as I do, that he would give me the same blood as Sasha Broz. What about the directors of public enterprises, and let them consider the mandate available, and they are often untouchable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72697	Replica, a respected representative of Miroslav Korenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72698	Comrades, when you say that the opposition should support this law under cover of concern for local and regional self-government as a cowardly egg, Article 3. If you're already talking about local and regional self-government and stay on it, but don't expand the circle of those who are immeasurable or who should give mandates at their disposal, that's what this is about. And that's what most of us in the opposition talked about most of the time. So, under one topic of concern for local self-government, the circle is expanding. I don't know why. If you're afraid of parliamentary elections and say so.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72699	The reply to the replica of the respected representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72700	counterpart Korenik, the Croatian Democratic Community is not afraid of parliamentary elections. Thank God that we have become a multi-party state and that the Croatian people decide on their fate through parliamentary or national representatives. The Croatian Democratic Community, if it were afraid of elections, would not then pass a law like this before us. It seems that you were scared because your many assistant ministers were, and it would be good to once know who the assistant ministers in this government were, who were in that government, what really statistical data were shifts from this government to that government and then see who was afraid of who. Let us not be afraid of one another but fear those who sent us to the Croatian Parliament because if we do their will then we will be here once again. If we don't do it, we don't do their will, then I doubt we'll be here. So, therefore, this significant democratic step will be paid by the people in both parliamentary elections and local elections, and if you say we are afraid I doubt that this law will be needed in a year or two because it will not be until the change of power because this authority is responsible for the Croatian people and be sure that it will happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72701	And Deputy Secretary of State of the Central State Administration Paula Maticic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72702	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives! I thank all those who participated in the debate especially those proposals and remarks that are directly related to the amendment and addition of the law. From this debate we see that it is good that this law is conducted first reading, we have had quite a long and exhausting debate. As regards the remarks and dilemmas that have arisen here, I would like to say in particular that this government has decided before it implements the principles of depoliticalisation and professionalisation, this very government, which is the principle and which is first incorporated into the Law on Civil Servants. And the law has already regulated labour and legal status and the position of individual officials, ministry secretary, ministerial assistants and they are the basis of the law after the first regular parliamentary elections to become state officials. This law does not regulate the status and position of those we speak of. This is merely proof that this principle, which is incorporated into the Civil Service Act, is consistently implemented in all other laws governing the question of the rights and obligations of civil servants. One of the issues is in this law on the takeover of powers where these duties have been mentioned since these positions will no longer be the positions of officials being deleted from this law since these positions become the jobs of civil servants. I think that in this sense only shows the consistency of the implementation of these principles of depoliticalisation and professionalisation, which is not an easy principle to implement in practice and for this government. And in that sense, I think that the objections in the opposite sense that the Government has some other interests are not to be argued because this is exactly the opposite of the principle that is consistently implemented which will be implemented through the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and the whole series of laws which have also addressed certain issues concerning certain duties and positions that have been so far. So I'm specifically saying, it's emphasized, we're asking a question as if by this law now we're sorting out whether the secretary of the ministry is going to become an official or an official. He has already become a law proposed by the government and adopted by the Croatian Parliament. It's the only thing we're doing here now is doing it in practice so that all the laws are in harmony with each other. And as far as taking over and handing over authorities at local level, we here do not use power in this head but the powers of the executive bodies of the local self-government units. That part has not been arranged so far and we have had problems in practice regarding the handover of duties between the old and the new, now it is being built into these provisions of the law. These other issues that have arisen regarding the appointment of a term of office, I think that in this part, in particular as regards mayors, deputy mayors and members of the headship, are governed by the existing law. The law said when the term of office of the mayor, the mayor, the mayor, when the deputy's term of office ends, when the current members of the headship ceases. With a choice of new ones. They have nothing to put their mandate to someone. The second is now a matter of the head of the administrative bodies, it's also we are already local officials who are professionals in how they are, they are called the foundation... competition. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the last amendments and additions to the Law on Locality, we have even incorporated the criteria, the possibility of resolution when created by law on these conditions, so that we will continue to build this process of implementing the principle of professionalisation and depoliticalisation into the law because the State Administration System Act will now also need to be laid down, to settle the question of the appointment of persons to certain situations which will now be the positions of civil servants such as the secretary of the Ministry. The ministry will obviously have a secretary, it's only a matter of procedure until the appointment but it's a question that will be settled by the State Administration System Act and other issues that will be... governed by the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u72703	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. I'm interrupting the session. Resume at 3:00, vote. It's going to be the key! MEETING AT 14.00 HOURS. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the procedure for the handover of authorities. I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Handover of Authorities is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. To vote. The result? With 66 for, 3 abstentions, 14 against, the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u74840	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. At the 47th session held on 28 September 2006, the Committee for Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out a proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Foreign Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament. Firstly, a member of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament, Anto Djapic, is dismissed. Secondly, a member of the Committee on Foreign Policy is elected Miroslav Rožic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u74841	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. Let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. With 79 votes for and 2 abstentions and 1 against MP Miroslav Rozic, elected member of the Foreign Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament. Congratulations, colleague Rosic. Here you go. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u74842	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament held at the 47th session held on 28 September 2006 unanimously established the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge and selection of members of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry of the Croatian Parliament Dragutin Pukles. And secondly, Stjepan Kozina is elected as a member of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u74843	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. We can vote. There's no quorum, you didn't turn on any. Please, let's get on with it. Score. 77 votes for, 7 abstentions Let's do it again and see what it is. [[I've been in.]] [[So am I.]] [[We're all in.]] Come on, turn yourself back on. Turn yourself in, please. ... Score. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] With 83 votes to, 3 abstentions made the proposed decision. Please, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u74844	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament held at the 47th session held on 28 September 2006 unanimously established the proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Committee on Finance and the state budget of the Croatian Parliament. Dragutin Pukleš was elected as a member of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament instead of the late representative Josip Sudec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u74845	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. Please, let's get on with it. Score. With 86 votes in favour and 1 abstention of the proposed decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u74846	The Committee for Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament at the 47th session held on 28 September 2006 unanimously established the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament shall be dismissed from the order of representatives of scientific and professional institutions at his own request, Željko Lovrinčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u74847	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposed decision. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. With 87 votes unanimously made the proposed decision. Voting complete. Resume 4 with...... You still got it? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So give it to me. And what is that? ... For saving, Djapic was skipped. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u74848	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament held at the 47th session held on 28 September 2006 unanimously established a proposal for a Decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament, Miroslav Rožić, is hereby authorised. And secondly, an Anto Djapic is elected as a member of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u74849	I'm opening a debate. It's progressing on the hierarchical ladder. I'm opening a debate. Please vote. It's worse now. And whoever's downstairs stays down. The result? With 82 for, one abstention and one against, the proposed decision has been made. 4. Continuing Wednesday with a debate on the National Policy Proposal to promote gender equality 2006-2010 Session adjourned at 3:30. Elections, appointments and resolutions. I ask the president of the board, Ms. Nevenka Majdenic, to take the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u74851	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u74852	Turn yourself in and make it louder, please, Nevenka.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u74853	At the 48th session held on 13 October 2006, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out a proposal for a decision to elect presidents and members of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the National Corruption Prevention Programme. First. For the chairman of the National Council for Monitoring the Implementation of the National Corruption Prevention Programme, Ruža Tomasic is elected, from the work of MPs. Second. For members of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the National Corruption Prevention Programme, Emil Tomljanovic, Velimir Plesa, Ingrid Antičević Marinović and Nikola Ivanis are elected.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u74854	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision in the package. Please, let's get on with it. The result? With 82 votes in favour and 1 against, it was appointed president of the National Council for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the National Programme, the Co-Corruption of Corruption Representative Ruža Tomasic of the Council of Representatives, and for members of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the National Corruption Prevention Programme, representative Emil Tomljanovic of the ranks of MPs, representative Velimir Plesa from the ranks of MPs, representative Ingrid Anticevic Marinović from the ranks of MPs and representative Nikola Ivanis. Thank you. Do we have any more?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u74855	At the 48th session held on 13 October 2006, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out the Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the National Corruption Prevention Programme. First, for members of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the National Corruption Prevention Programme, Branko Roglić is the employer's representative, Stjepan Kolarić, representative of the union, Zorislav Antun Petrovic, representative of NGOs dealing with the problem of corruption, Prof. Dr. Zeljko Horvatic is a representative of the academic community, Jasminka Trzun of experts and Marija Hudiljak of media representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-09-29-0.u74856	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to appoint these members of the Council who are not members of the Bureau. We can vote. The result? With 78 votes in favour and 2 abstentions, the members of the National Council have been appointed to monitor the implementation of the National Programme for the Prevention of Corruption of the Non-Advocacy Orders. The president of the board has nothing left? There isn't. The continuation of the session Wednesday 18th with the report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2005. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session. At the 22nd session of the Croatian Parliament on the agenda is - National policy proposal to promote gender equality 2006. - 2010. The Proposer is the Government. Deputy Prime Minister, family minister, defender and intergenerational solidarity. Minister Jadranka Kosor will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
