ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79880	Thank you. Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The Court of Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed at its 49th session held on 7 December 2006, a proposal for candidates to elect a member of the State Judicial Council, which was sent to the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament by the President of the Supreme Court on 27 November 2006, and the proposal established an extended general session of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia at a session held on 27 November 2006. It was also established that at the 40th session held on 11 April 2006, the Committee for the Justice of the Croatian Parliament launched a procedure of running for the election of one member of the State Judicial Council since DSV member Mirjana Rigljan had been relieved of the duties of DSV to appoint the President of the County Court in Zagreb since 13 March 2006. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on the State Judicial Council and Article 73 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, in the process of electing a member of the State Judicial Council, is hereby authorised to request the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia to initiate the application procedure for a member of the Council. The Committee received proposals from the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia candidate for DSV established at an extended general session of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on the State Judicial Council of the General Meeting of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia has established a proposal for three candidates to elect a member of the State Judicial Council as follows: 1. Ante Galic, Judge of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia with 35 votes, 2. Mladen Turkalj, Judge of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia by 31 votes, 3. Igor Perisa, judge of the High Court of Commerce of the Republic of Croatia by 29 votes. All proposals are set out in the scope of this report. It is the task of the Committee on Justice to establish, on the basis of the proposals received, whether the proposed candidates fulfil the conditions for selection in the State Judicial Council in order to ensure that all candidates meeting the conditions in accordance with Article 3(7). The law proposed to the Croatian Parliament for a decision. Following discussions and insights into the applications in question, the Justice Committee unanimously adopted the following conclusions with 8 votes: 1. It is proposed to the President of the Croatian Parliament to include in the agenda of the 23rd session of the Croatian Parliament the selection of members of the State Judicial Council, and 2. For the election of a member of the State Judicial Council, three proposed candidates of an authorised applicant are proposed to the Croatian Assembly, as it is found that all meet the conditions for the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79881	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a candidate to elect a member of the State Judiciary Council. We have an emergency, specific situation here. In accordance with Article 231 of the Financial The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in selecting a member of the State Judicial Council will hold a secret vote. Given that the number of candidates proposed is higher than the number elected, this vote is being held on ballots prepared by the parliamentary secretary, which he has prepared and assisted by a number of MPs. These are MPs who will be on that voting committee whether, Emil Tomljanovic, Silvano Hrelja, Nikola Vuljanic and Biserka Perman. There's ballots, there's ballot boxes, there's ballots. It's a 20-minute stop, so we're gonna go to the vote and finally get it done. Secret, on the ballots. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, after this vote, I invite you to a modest holiday home for Christmas holidays downstairs in the assembly, the delicacies will be great. So, after this vote, I'm asking for a Christmas party.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79885	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. You have before you the Law on Supplements to the Law on Features and Recognitions of the Republic of Croatia whose proposal is proposed in order to protect the dignity of the Homeland War for participation and other contribution to the Homeland War so that distinctions and recognitions can be awarded in accordance with this law and under the procedure laid down by this law. The provisions of this bill would exclude the distinctions and recognitions given by the President of the Republic and the Croatian Parliament. The implementation of this law in the state budget does not require additional resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79886	Thank you. The committee's reporters? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. HSP representative club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79887	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. And the late Mladen Delic would say he sees this law "my peoples if it's possible". I don't know if you've read this law, according to us at the Croatian party club, it would be the same size if the Swedish Parliament passed a law that would abolish the right to award a Nobel Prize. You know what this is all about? It goes to be forbidden to associations from the Homeland War, specifically this is about the Association of Defence, Disabilities and widows of the Homeland War employees of the "Podravka" who award recognition, meaning no distinction and recognition in accordance with the Law on Features and Recognitions of the Republic of Croatia, but as an association from the Homeland War, NGOs. So they're awarding the hero of the Homeland War. So far, they have awarded such four recognitions and this has been allocated in a way that the HDZ dignitaries have provided these recognitions and medals. So they were assigned, for example, specifically Deputy Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor, to give recognition to Kati Šoljic who lost four sons, and Kati Zadar for the late Croatian general, Major General Blago Zadar. Dr. Andrija Hebrang, at the time of the Deputy Prime Minister, handed this confession to Ankica Tudjman for Dr. Franjo Tudjman while the Minister of Health Dr. Neven Ljubicic's confession handed to Vukovar War Hospital headed by Dr. Vesna Bosanac and Dr. Juraj Njavro has yet to be awarded the recognition of the hero of the Homeland War to our general, Major Anti Gotovina, who is now in the dungeon in The Hague and has not yet been served because the family has said when General Gotovina may then be served. And what's this about? It came because this association was on the initiative and other associations from the Homeland War decided this recognition of the Homeland War hero and the General, Major Branimir Glavas, and we were automatically given a reaction from the Government which means, "For the protection of the dignity of the Homeland War for participation or other contribution to the Homeland War, only the honours and recognitions of the Republic of Croatia established by this Act and the procedure prescribed by it can be awarded." And the associations did not award state recognitions and medals, the association, in particular, granted its recognition, NGOs everywhere in the world have the right to award their recognitions, so these are not state medals, they are not state medals, they are not state recognitions. It is the recognition of the Homeland War Association and that is why it is incomprehensible to us and there is no valid explanation nor can you defend it, Mr. Secretary of State, that we are now going legislatively to arrange for the associations to no longer grant it, so those in their recognition that are assigned cannot stand this one at all for the protection of the Homeland War and everything else. And on the one hand, we talk about how we advocate democratic solutions, how we advocate that our legal gains be with the legal gains of the European Union, and on the other hand we go to such regulations as Stalin or other regimes that we know they ended up with. So it's incomprehensible to go to one of those situations. It would also be the same situation, according to a survey by a number of journalists, that the politician of the year and now let's say that the variant is that the club of the SDP or some other club suggests that this law, too, is an amendment that such recognition cannot be granted. So that's that size order. So this is totally incomprehensible and incomprehensible why it goes into such legal changes, with this more, here I have a letter from the Association of Disabled Men and the widows of the Homeland War employees of the Podravka that they were promised in the Government that this initiative meant the award of recognition of Homeland War heroes would be translated into law and they say if that's how it would be for us to give up our initiative, but obviously they've been deceived. In the Government, in this legal text offered to us by an emergency procedure, there is not a word. I don't know where it's going, where it's going, why does the government do it? Because of the fact that it was probably given to Branimir Glavas. There is nothing else that is valid for any other reason than because this association has decided to give recognition to the "hero of the Homeland War" to Branimir Glavas and then the government reacted automatically. Inconceivable and I don't know if you can immediately withdraw this legal text and stay out of the work of NGOs because NGOs can never in any country... I don't know why you're doing this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79888	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79889	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to correct a colleague who says this law is passed for Branimir Glavas. My colleague, I don't think that's true. It's simple if you count that there are 30,000 associations in this country, so imagine if each of these associations were to bring some kind of distinction, a confession, so there would be one forest and a real one, and as far as the Homeland War is concerned, I think this law which brings the dignity of the Homeland War and the dignity of the recognition of the people who were in the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79890	Thank you. State Secretary Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79891	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This Law, or bill of law, absolutely has nothing to do with Branimir Glavas and the Glavas case. In fact, the fact is that in the past year or several years, there has been an entire inflation of various recognitions and medals that have been awarded to participate and contribute to the Homeland War under the existing Law on Associations of Three Men to establish an association and share all kinds of qualities and recognitions for participation in the Homeland War. On the contrary, the proposal to amend the Law here aims to make clear order for participation in the Homeland War, so for something that should be sacred in this country, such clear regulation is proposed by law on who can and in what way to verify it, or assign it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79892	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79893	So I'm correcting the inaccuracies of the secretary of state who said, "The associations share state distinctions and recognitions." Associations share their honours and confessions, and you make it impossible for these laws to do so. It's unimaginable anywhere in the world.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79894	Thank you. SDP club, respected representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79895	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. It's probably with this pointless bill of law that only the introduction of what awaits us in a circus called the Eco-Fish Protection Zone. You alone invite Jesus and God, but me as a believer.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79896	Please, colleague Pancic, please do not provoke the representatives, stick to the usual behavioral regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79897	And it's common that they constantly, continuously earn something.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79898	Don't invite them to that, please calm down, please. You're welcome to stay in line.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79899	All right. May I say that this is a pointless bill? Can I also appeal to a folk proverb that the unemployed pop and the goats are baptized? I probably can, because really this bill is pointless. If he also intended to prevent associations in this Homeland War case from giving different confessions, it means not the distinctions prescribed by this law but certain recognitions of this law still do not prevent them from doing so. Let us read another article 4 in this proposal of the Supplement Law, or Article 4.a. "In order to protect the dignity of the Homeland War for participation or other contribution to the Homeland War, only the honours and recognitions of the Republic of Croatia established by this law and by the procedure prescribed by it can be granted." And then we move on, Article 6 that talks about all these traits. And not one of those medals, no association, no matter how many members, three or more such a distinction has given to anyone. And that's why these amendments to the law won't solve anything. Only political pressure on individual associations can be affected by certain recognitions to certain people being no longer granted but it has nothing to do with the law, it has to do with the political practice of individual parties or executive authority or not. We have heard here that from this association which is now in the focus of interest, association of defenders, disabled employees of Podravka are already assigned four recognitions to individuals and cities. And that was pretty good and followed in the media. And why is that? Well, probably because these confessions were awarded by officials of the current government. And all right, that's their right. How come we don't mind in the SDP that one association gives recognitions even to people who are close to HDZ or if they're not members, I don't know now. And that's what HDZ officials themselves do. How come we didn't mind? Well, it's simply because it's the right of every association to do so. So then we're changing the Association Act that says, "Let's increase the number of founders." If it makes no sense that three members, three citizens can establish an association which is some Western standards and I think it may be too low but then we are changing the law and let's not change the law in an unsuitable way yet because one recognition at the current moment does not suit us. And I'm gonna do it again now no matter how much someone doesn't like it. This law is followed by these amendments to the law because the recognition was given to our colleague Branimir Glavas. And all of a sudden, those who have awarded earlier recognitions of this association to other people now say that the associations will no longer assign, now the measure has been translated. So how's that? Yesterday, Mr. Glavas was a visionary, and today, the laws change. It is simply something that democratic Croatia cannot agree to. He can't. We had that famous sugar yesterday. We'll have that even more famous ZERP again. And this government instead of dealing with the protection of fundamental Croatian national interests it deals with nonsense. Here, I hope we don't waste too much time on this bill for more than an hour, and I believe that eventually the promoter will pull it back. There's another reason why it's not good. Why is it not good this way to deal with the Homeland War? And we all swear to protect the integrity of the Homeland War, so we say we want to protect the truth about this Homeland War. But in what way do we protect that integrity and that truth? So just as the Communist Party was protecting the truth about World War II, wanting to be the only monopolite over everything that was going on in that second world war. And then we see that what she was representing and what she was preaching was not exactly what it was. Let's let the historians do it. When politics gets involved in such things, it doesn't work out. So is the Homeland War. One party can't be the only one to say it, the only interpreter, a credible interpreter of what was in the Homeland War and the only interpreter of whether anyone can give this or that confession. I'm not talking about state recognitions and state medals again. No one has prevented recognitions that particularly highlight heroism and heroism in the work from giving to those who have earned it, and it is written in this law. The problem, however, was that many of these and others ended up on the shoulders or chest of people they shouldn't have ended up on. Well, then we have some logistics generals who haven't seen the war and are the bearers of the highest number of medals. Is that normal? Well, it probably isn't. But how is it that the government at the time didn't mind, so that it stopped the inflation of the medal? So, I still believe that associations have the right to the Constitution, by law, to give different confessions. Well, in that regard, if it were different, then a legal proposal could come here to prohibit the association or I don't know which journalist to declare Prime Minister Sanader as the politician of the year. But how? But we don't mind. So why would that be problematic? Why is it that some association, regardless of its right, whether well assessed or not, has misjudged, I find it not well assessed, but it doesn't matter, but it is the right of associations and different associations to declare the persons of the year. And now you tell me when you are, probably more experienced than I am in these things, so tell me why some Homeland War Association wouldn't be able to honor any of us here, a colleague of Bebić, a colleague of Kovacevic, a colleague of the Church or a colleague of the Head of State for anything? Or me or a colleague of President Shakespeare's? [[/Intruder: Or Pancic?]] Whatever. That's why either colleague Babić Petričević or...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79900	So please, don't bring in the way you bring in, invite MPs to participate in the debate, so you can see which climate. Let's go nice, come on.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79901	Here, let's bring it in nicely. So, we believe this bill does not solve anything and that it would be best if the motionary of the Government of the Republic of Croatia withdraws it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79902	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79903	Well, Your Honor, Mr. President, I am correcting an incorrect quote from an esteemed colleague of Pancic who says, we are protecting the dignity of the Homeland War as the Communist Party has protected the dignity of World War II. Unfortunately, it's not true if whoever attacked World War II, the party immediately locked him in a dungeon. And with us, whoever attacks the Homeland War celebrates him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79904	For the HDZ club, club president respected representative, Vice President Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79905	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This is called a political inversion that we just listened to. And she's only motivated by one goal and I'm not going to explain it because everyone knows him. So, to expand this debate to something that she doesn't talk about or articles that don't regulate the issues that were unnecessary here is just trying to bring things to the absurdity of God, but actually unscath the whole thing. This is about the award of participation in the Homeland War. The primary question is who can assign it? Who can assign this, can associations from individual companies, institutions and similar? So it would assume inflation of such recognitions with the claim to be recognised by state, broader, national significance. Is that in principle okay? That's what I'm asking. If we assume there's any, I don't know, how many thousands of associations, there'll be so many more. No one's talking about the association being superfluous or that they don't need it. However, they are set up under their statutes under the law. No association can be unless it's based on the law no matter how wide a thing goes, the law gets the most of it set up by what's right. So this isn't about any attempt to solve one case, it's about principle. Can, apart from the President of the Republic and under our laws and the Croatian Parliament, grant such medals of broader social, state, national importance or not? Will we allow it until the next time someone doesn't like it for some particular reason? So that particular reason will try to rise to the level of principle. Because it is a particular man from that and that party, or as the most representative and legislative body in this country, we will stick to some principles similar to those of other similar countries or countries with developed democracy, which we claim is what we are, or I will caricate a hundred or ten thousand different confessions that will have such a bombic title that in fact the amount of these recognitions devalues the intention of the person who is assigned and to whom it is given. If it's thousands and thousands, then where are we? So, I don't want to discuss any particular problem here, I want to point out that according to the positive laws of this House, I can make state recognitions, honours and so forth, and this is the issue of Homeland War, it shouldn't be down to the decision of three or four of some people in a society, and then it becomes one example for each other, and it becomes such a broad movement to say so about the award of medals, so it's going to assign to me, me and so on, and we're going to carve out and bring it to one absurdity. That's why I think it's necessary to pass this law in order to achieve the purpose I've been talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79906	Thank you. IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79907	Mr. President, the esteemed secretary of state, the esteemed gentlemen of the council! I don't think I'm going to use the political inversion, I'm going to talk about being the law. I will speak a little differently from Mr Kovacevic and Pancic, but I fully agree with them that this law is excessive, that this law is meaningless and incomprehensible. What is it that we gentlemen regulate with? In the light of the reasons, Article 4a literally states that the applicable law does not stipulate that, in order to protect the integrity of the Homeland War for participation or other contribution to the Homeland War, only the distinctions and recognitions laid down by that law and by the procedure prescribed by it can be awarded. In view of the above proposed addition within the basic provisions of the applicable law, this is explicitly prescribed and it would be excluded from the application of such distinctions as are granted by the President of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of other regulations and clearly stands the Croatian Parliament. But what does that mean now? So what is the emphasis on this legal text? The accent is on the dignity of the Homeland War. And now I'm asking myself, is it necessary in this country to protect the dignity of the Homeland War? From whom should the integrity of the Homeland War be protected? Who's it... ? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yeah, from people like me. Maybe we need to protect him from some courts. Which one? Homemade? Foreign? When did the gentlemen forged the coin of the Homeland War? It was the time after 1996 when we adopted the Constitutional Law here in the House in cooperation with The Hague Court and after the same court in Croatia made several requests for the extradition of Croatian generals. First of all, I'm thinking about the Blaskic case. Then Mr Pasalić and Miroslav Tudjman escorted The Hague from Split Kordic. Then "the Split Riva" occurred, Norac, the replacement of the generals by the president clearly corrected Stipe Mesic. There's a case called "Glass" today. In all these cases, individuals talk about the need to protect the integrity of the Homeland War and others talk about the protection of the rule of law. Now I don't know who should be decorated here, those who protect the dignity of the Homeland War or those who protect the sovereignty of the rule of law? That's where you have to decide as well. But in order not to disturb this harmony now, this is obviously an initiative from one side of the government as Mr Kovacevic and Pancic spoke of it after these associations were awarded recognition of the hero of the Homeland War to Gotovina, Glavas, probably because of his visionaryism and so on, Zadar, Tudjman and the Military Hospital in Vukovar. But on a television show, I also heard from the president of the Republic who also referred to the law "high avis" that this Association of Defense from Podravka granted some cities the recognition of the City of Heroes. For example, Zagreb, I don't know, Osijek, Rijeka and so on. I agree with both Mr Kovacevic and Mr Pancic that there is no problem with these associations. The problem may be greater who gave these associations sometimes too much space. OK, if that's how they want to participate in this public or political life. I mean, let the associations be, "vis avis" of these freedoms of expression of constitutional categories, but it is known as the same Mr. Bebic who can award medals? According to our laws, only the state, the Croatian Parliament, can do so. The President of the Republic can do that. Who's getting those medals? Mostly we see generals receiving. They're receiving these confessions from some mayors, mayors, and that's pretty much it. Article 3. Honored gentlemen literally of the Law on Features and Recognitions of the Republic of Croatia reads: "The honours and recognitions are granted to Croatian and foreign citizens and legal persons, 1st merits and contributions to the establishment, maintenance and promotion of an independent, independent, contemporary Republic of Croatia, 2nd merits and contributions to the resuscitation of Croatia's governmental idea for the development and construction of the Republic of Croatia, and to contribute to a particular area or activity and 3rd exceptional courage and heroic act in war, direct war danger or special circumstances in peace." This is what Article 3 reads. The legal text or the legal provision is absolutely clear and the question is then what should be changed by this law at all. Why today's law intervention when we know that the behavior of some individuals is not to mean anything but there is no "God knows what" political weight. I'm talking about these associations now. If it's a moral act, if it's a pleasure to them, let them keep it, and that's pretty much all. By my judgment, that law should absolutely be withdrawn. On the other hand, Croatia has enough medals and all of these features are clearly defined. Here is enough now to quote a member, Article 6. The Law on Features and Recognitions of the Republic of Croatia, so we will see that the honours of the Republic of Croatia are determined in importance. First, the grand order of King Tomislav with the flax and the great Dane. Second, the Grand Order of Queen Yelena with Lent and Danica. Third, King Peter Kresimir IV's grand order with Lent and Danica. Fourth, the Grand Order of King Dmitry Zvonmir with Lent and Danica. Fifth, the order of the Prince of Trpimir with the necklace and Danica. Of course, first the kings go and the princes go. Then we have the fifth order of Lord Trpimir with the necklace and Danica, the order of Prince Branimir with the necklace, the order of Prince Domagoj with the necklace, the seventh. Eight, order of Nikola Šubic Zrinski. Then the bans are coming, of course. Order of Ban Jelačić, order of Peter Zrinski and Fran Krsta Frankopan, order of Ante Starčević, order of Stjepan Radić, order of Danica Hrvatska with character Marko Marulić, Blaž Lorković, Ruđer Bošković, Nikola Tesla, Franje Bućara, Katarina Zrinski, Antun Radić. And then we have the Order of the Croatian Cross, the Order of the Croatian Trolist, the Order of the Croatian Player, the monument of the Homeland War and the monument of the Homeland Thanksgiving. I'm deeply convinced that in defining these high places, the ranks, the princes, then I don't know and so on, the president of the state participated. After that, he is absolutely standing and I am also deeply convinced that at least in some footnotes, the late President of the Republic of Croatia, Dr Franjo Tudjman, wrote for each of these decorations. How is it that he has not noticed or introduced the categories we are discussing today? For the simple reason that in this way in the Republic of Croatia did not even talk. So in these explanations, all the features are stated, I don't know, for example, Article 8 of Queen Yelena's 8th Grand Order with a flax and a dinar and the grandeur of King Peter Kresimir IV. It shall be awarded to the dignitaries, etc., with the flax and the denomination. Two Croatian foreign parliament presidents, etc., Government. Thirdly, the highest military officials of the Croatian Armed Forces to make an outstanding contribution to the creation of a war strategy, military doctrine, the merit of the construction of the Croatian Army, and in particular to the success of leading and commanding troops of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. Is that supposed to be complemented by the dignity of the Homeland War? Or now article 12 of the Prince Domagoj with a necklace is given to Croatian, foreign citizens for their proven courage and heroism in war, direct war danger or exceptional circumstances in peace. Article 13th order Nikola Šubić Zrinski is awarded to a foreign citizen for a heroic act in war and direct war danger. Article 14 of the Order of the Bank of Jelačić shall be granted to officials, officers, commanders, troops of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia for special military merits in its formation, development for the extremely successful command of its troops. Article 15 of the Order of Peter Zrinski and Frana Krsta Frankopan with a golded player is given to Croatian and foreign citizens as an honorary sign of eternal memory, etc. to the dead and the like. And I'm going to say one more time, so why in '96, and I said that I was deeply convinced that this law was a direct law by the president of the state, which means why we didn't mention the dignity of the Homeland War, because then gentlemen were not a political concept. He was designed for certain needs, and I know that he was neither questioned nor the representatives of this assembly called upon, such as neither the past nor the previous ones, as well as those of the previous ones. The dignity of the Homeland War does not question either this government, nor the former, nor the past, as the Homeland War has raised no doubt either the current president or the former president, and those who speak clearly about certain things that would rather forget about Pakračka Poljana, Zec, Paulin, Dvor etc. In my court, too, there's no harm in the integrity of the Homeland War. For the end, as my predecessors have said, I think the Law is too high and that we should not use one daily-political rhetoric without purpose or content.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79908	Thank you. HNS Club, the esteemed representative of Zeljko Kurtov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79909	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. If this bill should be regulated so that the medals are not day-to-day-political manipulation, I don't know how a general and a high-ranking officer can cheer up the distinction of an association. If this officer has the distinction of the Republic of Croatia and the President of the State of the deceased so I think it is a shame for him, that we have come to the point that if this law tries to regulate it, and I hope that it is to protect itself from the devasion of various honours and recognitions that it would really serve its purpose for honest people and honest people to get it and to one level to get it up, it would be truly an honor for those people to get it. If each association will be able to give medals can be within its membership circle, but the association that gives medals to recognised people, cities, so I think it's embarrassing and if this law is trying to regulate it then it has the support of the CNS and me personally and we will support it. The recognition ceremony is given by municipalities, cities, counties, we know who, and also associations can participate in giving medals in such a way as to make proposals and be one of the initiators who will ask that a person, a city, a municipality, not know what counts. Everyone can participate in medals, there is a regulation that must be respected, and I think it should only be stricter, not that it goes on a shameful scale so that there is nothing more valuable in this country, that nothing can remain valuable but everything must be devastated and destroyed. I'm telling you that it's not our honor and all those who try to politicize it, I don't think that's right. I'll thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79910	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79911	Your Honor, Mr. President. I'm correcting an incorrect quote from an esteemed colleague, saying, "The organizations are awarding medals." So they don't assign honor associations. State honours can be awarded, only the president of the state, and associations award recognitions as well as all other NGOs under the Association Act, so let's not mix pears and apples.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79912	Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79913	Your Honor, Mr. President, Secretary of State. I believe that the intention of the legislator of the Law was very noble and that it had a firm foothold in the problems surrounding us when it came to inflation of various recognitions and medals related to the Homeland War. In fact, in one day, the late President Tudjman named 30 or 35 generals, none of whom would have been able to fill a gun or Uzi, they were ex-intelligences, bailiffs, state officials, then at different times the Croatian state gave about 470 thousand different honours and recognitions, there is inflation of defenders, and I understand humanly when Mr Kurtov, who was a real Croatian warrior, gives the Bianca support of this Law, but I cannot give that support. I've already made a public statement as to why I believe this law should be withdrawn from the procedure by the government. Namely, it's one of those laws that offends the common sense of this High House, which is the final point of defense of the integrity of this High Parliament. You can pass a law prohibiting the words of Savi from flowing from Zagreb to Belgrade and forcing her to run towards the European Union. It is unlikely that this law will be implemented in reality. So, what's this all about? First of all, defense of the dignity of the Homeland War is one of the nadaladic findings. The model Cardinal Bozanic spoke in a beautiful homily in Vukovar about war as evil. Evil can't have dignity. We must defend the dignity of the warriors and defend the memory of a victory war. How can we do that? We can do so if we can memorize the famous Pericle speech on the grave of fallen warriors. We can defend the height of warriors and the memory of their heroism by building a state and society that will reflect, mirror their ideals, their incentives to go to war. Pericles address the tomb to mothers, relatives, sons and fathers of fallen warriors, and 2/3 of that speech is dedicated to the glory of Athens. He says it's a country of freedom, prosperity, a country where there's no attack on common sense and only after that says it was worth it and it was an honor to die for such a country. In that sense, the dignity of warriors can be defended in any other way but not by this law. I publicly appealed to the Prime Minister to withdraw the law. Unfortunately, he often changes cell phones, so I can't reach him anymore. The last one I had changed again. So this law should be withdrawn. What's he supposed to pull for? Because he is, it's simply impossible to realize him. [[President of the Parliament.]] By the current law, you can see that since I am at the head of a small association called Independent Representative, there are only five of us in that association, under the current law we have the right to encourage the award of the greatest state honours. Personally, perhaps tomorrow, on behalf of that association, I will submit one incentive to the President of the Republic to give the highest state honor here to the present Damier Cain. ... There are two possibilities. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I will propose either the grand order of Peter Krešimir IV with a dinic or at least the order of Ban Jelačić. I have the right to grant this directly. What am I gonna do that for? Because he witnessed in a special testimony that will be published in my book "A Flight Over the Coward's Nest" that he saved a hectare of the Holy Croatian country. It's about that little hectare around the country of Josak Joras, who is the former government headed by a man who always gets angry when I discuss wanting to give it to the Slovenians. At the last moment, Damir Cain and Dino Debelyuh, testify, went to the Office of Prime Minister Racan and begged him and threatened to do so to the Slovenians. That is why I believe that I will get the support of the President of the Republic of Stipe Mesic to assign this greatest state award to the presence of Damir Kajin. In that sense, Mr. Secretary of State, you know, it's very difficult to say today that today it's possible to stop this inflation of different recognitions regarding everything and everything. You see, in Croatia every so many news breaks that some journalist gets the highest recognition I don't know, "National Indogment", democratic or "Freedom of Press" or some international association etc. You had, I organized a choice for a person of the year at the Globe for years. One year he was in first place Goran Ivanišević, twice Franjo Kuharić, several times the late dictator Franjo Tudjman. It's not even at that time when no one from, say, I was glad and our president was for a few years. So, you had one situation yesterday that our Prime Minister is looking forward to getting as much a funny medal as a politician of the year has chosen from a group of anonymous people, you don't even know what number it is. So, if you want to be consistent, pull this out of the parliamentary procedure, I'm asking you here, and I'm personally asking because it's an attack on common sense. It is not possible to realize in practice. There are more than 28 thousand associations in Croatia at this time. Who will ban me from establishing on behalf of the Association an independent president of the Legion of Croatian Honor and assigning it to Luka Bebić. Maybe I'll do it. Thank you very much, and please give me the Prime Minister's cell phone number to call him, I think I'll be able to explain it to him. Or you can order it. There's no point in harassing us in this high house with absurd suggestions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79914	Correction of an incorrect quote, Honored Vice President Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79915	Mr. President, dear colleague Letica. I'd like to reassure you of your right to encourage a medal. Unfortunately, you were wrong when you said that as a group of independent representatives or associations, you could make a proposal to encourage medals. We have the greatest absurd. The Croatian representative can propose a law. Can 1/5 MPs propose to change the Constitution but cannot propose and give an incentive for distinction and recognition but only the Croatian Parliament, the Government and everything else can. And instead of amending that part of the law and ensuring, returning constitutional rights to Croatian lawmakers, we propose these amendments and additions to the law under which we constitutionally, unconstitutionally restrict the right of associations to give their recognitions.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79916	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79917	Well, well-respected Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79918	... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79919	You didn't look.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79920	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79921	You didn't look, because you didn't raise.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79922	I'm up! How could I not?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79923	Sorry! Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79924	Here... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79925	Go ahead!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79926	That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79927	Go ahead, Mr. Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79928	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. So again, on behalf of the Croatian Party Club, I demand the Government to really withdraw this silly legislative proposal and not allow this kind of violence against the development of democracy in Croatia and in essence because the Association of Defence and Disabilities and the widows of the Homeland War employees "Podravka" decided to award the recognition of "Hero of the Homeland War" to Mr Branimir Glavas to go immediately with this legislative proposal. You're talking about something that's unimaginable in the world. I don't know any country where there's this situation that's gonna keep the associations from granting a confession. So, those associations can't or can't be assigned anywhere in the world of state distinction, state recognition. For it is not assigned according to their statutes, but given according to the law. And also on the other hand watch that one nonsens. HDZ sets up advice to promote the truth about the Homeland War, which is if we are to be an objective task of state institutions. Now, let's just say you don't mind. So you're setting up a council to promote the truth about the Homeland War as a party body, which is a fundamental task of state and state institutions. And that is why we have succeeded in the third attempt, the club HSP so that, for example, the Law establishing the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre from the Homeland War has been adopted, but unfortunately for two years this centre has done nothing. So, in that act, you yourself have admitted that the government is not running the centre, so the competent institution and the bodies are not promoting the Homeland War then it will be done as part of the party. And what kind of message is that now? What kind of message is now to General Gotovina, General Praljak and all these generals who had to buy the documentation on the black market so that they could prepare not only themselves but also the defence of the Croatian state. And now it's this total nonsens. Look, when it was said that this namely association of defenders, disabled and widows of the Homeland War, the employee of Podravka said that it as well as a number of other associations from the Homeland War since '96. strives to draw attention to the fact that the Homeland War should also have a state distinction or recognition that would be called "the hero of the Homeland War" or "the hero of the Homeland War". Homeland war is an interesting situation that we don't have a hero of the Homeland War at all and they were right in that part. And as such said, we started with this and we awarded such recognition, meaning not to honor the state, not the state recognition, but as associations, and even here in the letter that they sent me they told me that the government had agreed to this part and that they had such information that compared to this work they would be established in the Law of Delicacies and Recognitions exactly or the recognition of the "JONAK OF DOMOVIN WAR". And when it was assigned, which was fine, late, assigned a family to the late President Tudjman, that was fine. And when it was assigned to Mrs Kati Šoljic, it was normal to be fine. When it was assigned to Kati Zadar, it was normal. When it was assigned to Vukovar Hospital, it was normally okay. And then normally, there appear the highest dignitaries and HDZ officials and the government of Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, Dr. Andrija Hebrang, Dr. Neven Ljubicic, meaning who handed it over. And there was nothing wrong with it because when they were giving praise to how the association was taking care that someone remembered that we were missing it, and it was all wonderful and wonderful. And now that they've given Major General Branimir Glavas the situation, here's where the association here says, the state summit that condemned it immediately met. And as he reacted, it says in your letter, we're going through changes and additions to the law. Well, it's really inconceivable, like that situation that the Swedish parliament takes to ban the award of the Nobel Prize, or let's say we put the amendment now and ban the award of politicians of the year because that's what President Mesic is going to assign or someone else, or the government is going to assign. So what kind of message is that? I guess all associations have the same status, same rights. This is really inconceivable. I mean, you can try, but you really don't have a valid explanation and the smartest solution is to pull it back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79929	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79930	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The law is mostly unnecessary. You know who's giving state medals and confessions. There's also a way of doing things. The law is also missed because it is also known that this law does not provide for any distinction that would be called "the hero of the Domovin War" even though the need for the introduction of such an award in this House has been indicated for a number of years. Obviously in vain because it falls into deaf ears. This government, you don't know why, it's not in the interest, it won't deal with changing the law in that sense to introduce a medal that would be called "the hero of the Domovin War". Well, it turns out after that Homeland War, we only had criminals and we didn't have heroes. There's a lot of talk about criminals. We don't like heroes. Even after World War II, such a distinction was given to those who were particularly prominent in this defensive anti-fascist war. That you have now proposed to amend the law in that sense and to make such an argument. Look, associations are awarding the hero of the Homeland War. It's not an association's business, it's a state's business, and we're changing the law, we're introducing such a single distinction, and we're determining that it's going to be assigned under the law of the envisaged procedure, everything would be fine. Why didn't you do it? You really don't know. The reasons why you didn't do it, we didn't see it written or oral. In addition, the law was late if it was to achieve a purpose it is claimed to want to achieve. For, the Association of Defense and Disabilities of Podravka has been awarding such medals for many years. Kata Šoljic got it. When assigned, no amendments to the law are proposed. It wasn't said then, so the association can't assign it, we're protecting the dignity of the Homeland War. When Kata Zadar received it for the Blessed Zadar, there was no change in the law. Even then, you did not protect the integrity of the Homeland War. When Ankica Tudjman got it, I don't know why, it could have... And give it to the president if he wants to be given. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why Ankici, I have no idea. You didn't react. Vukovar War Hospital. When Gotovina got it, you didn't react again. When do you react? You're responding now that it's announced that Branimir Glavas should have it. Not that you didn't react then, but you gave these confessions, and Vice President Kosor, and Hebrang, and Ljubic. You had no objection to the Association of the Defense Officers of Podravka sharing such a distinction, which is in itself pointless, it must be done by the Association instead of the State. The law is called wrong. The law should be called in view of its intensity and time of adoption, given that it is so late he should be called the Law prohibiting the award of medals to Branimir Glavas because then it would be quite clear, that's motive, that's why the government will, but in that sense I wonder what it would be like if this Association of Podravka had awarded Branimir Glavas this distinction at a time when he was a visionary of HDZ. Would you suggest amending the law? I'm sure he wouldn't, that Branimir Glavas would get that medal with Kata Soljic at the time, and I'm sure he would have given it to him by Prime Minister Sanader himself, because he also declared him a visionary. I guess the visionary was when he suggested that President Sanader become HDZ president. I guess it was that visionary venture. But certainly, you wouldn't propose a law that forbids the award of medals to Branimir Glavas. In this sense, however, your law is completely pointless because it will not achieve the purpose you want to achieve, which is that Branimir Glavas gets some kind of recognition. And watch out for 28 thousand organizations. Well, there'll be associations if they don't already exist, they'll be founded by this Glavas party. They'll assign some kind of confession to Branimir Glavas if nothing else makes them get on your nerves. He'll be declared an honorary citizen of some city, given some transitional flag, a cup, a medal. They've got a hundred ways to piss you off, they've got a hundred ways to play this game of yours. If nothing else, the Doctor's Association will declare him an honorary patient. Or this Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja, if you just prohibit Branimir Glavas from giving recognition then surely this Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja will propose, for example, President of the Parliament, Mr Seks for some distinction because of political consistency. A man never spoke to one another today, tomorrow. How are you gonna stop it? So they'll piss you off. You will not achieve this purpose by this law. And it should, in fact, pass a law on the protection of the integrity of the Croatian Parliament that would prevent the government from sending such pointless legislative proposals to the Parliament. Because today we have to deal with your anxiety with Branimir Glavas without knowing how to handle it differently than to put the legal proposal procedure and yet pointless, I'm sorry, it's out of your mind. Pull this bill, don't be embarrassed, settle it in a different way. And introduce, introduce a medal of "the hero of the Homeland War" in this law on medals. That's what we've been inviting you to do for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79931	Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected Vice-President Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79932	I'd like to correct the incorrect allegations of an esteemed representative. Mr. Stazic is not true that Branimir Glavas has set or narrated the elections at the 7th General Assembly of the Croatian Democratic Community, but I am not angry with you. This is very understandable because you in the Communist Party of Yugoslavia, the Communist Party of Croatia, and now you who are heirs really don't understand and can't understand when there are two or more candidates for the election of the chairman of one party. So we're not really angry.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79933	Replica's esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79934	Replica, not this correction to an incorrect quote. Mr. Stazic Branimir Glavas was a visionary two years ago. I suppose two years ago Mr. Sanader would not have awarded the recognition of the hero of the Homeland War to Mr. Branimir Glavas, but he would have certainly attended the award of the hero of the Homeland War Branimir Glavas, as the country's most recent state officials also attended the award of the hero of the Homeland War to Mrs. Kati Šoljic. This is exactly what the absurdity of this law is, that it is ridiculous, unnecessary, and simply a political act that has no purpose other than to confront common sense with sound logic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79935	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79936	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, look, my colleague Stazic is right when he says that some Homeland War Association can still award recognitions because even though this is prohibited by the proposed Article 4a, or it can be banned, and probably this is both HNS and HDZ together, so there will be no problem for that part of the quorum, but there are no sanctions. What, for example, the association will award recognition for protecting the dignity of the Homeland War to President Shakespeare, the "xy" association. So what's it gonna do now? Will Secretary of State Palaric have to make a decision to end it? Is this association going to end up in jail? What's the procedure going to take place? And will President Shakespeare or anyone else be able to take that in and, say, frame it and put it in their study? So it's so obvious that you've made sense of the law that you haven't solved the situation if someone contrary to the law that will be passed as such does. Because you didn't say what and how to do it. Therefore, your efforts as players are in vain. You did it for Branimir Glavas and it should be a shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79937	Vice-President of the House, Honorable Representative Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79938	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, and I agree that this proposal for a law in such a text is proposed to amend and supplement the Law on Detects should be withdrawn and it should not be passed. This does not mean that there is no reason for amending and supplementing the law. It could and should, if you would like to accept an initiative that has come to the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Government, the President of the Republic, the parties, by associations dealing with the promotion and protection of the rights of defenders of the Homeland War, of course, and rights concerning the protection and sovereignty of the Homeland War. Here, among other things, is the question of calling the hero of the Homeland War. We cannot regulate this issue by law or open in this respect an initiative launched by the Associations of the Defense Department of the Homeland War. Here is an entire series of issues that are actually about the criteria related to the award of recognition as well as the question among other things that he mentioned here and the distinguished colleague Letica about the incentives who can give an incentive for the distinction that can be given under the law of distinction, about the honours and recognitions of the Republic of Croatia? It is absolutely absurd that a representative in the Croatian Parliament does not make a proposal, but cannot give an incentive. It is decided by the special body of the President of the Republic than this must happen, I have now cleared up with my colleague Letica to form an association of independent representatives, and then they as an association can give encouragement, and as representatives cannot give encouragement. It's really funny and kind of weird because it can actually be interpreted as being about trying to play law on this issue. So that question should be cleared up. In addition, an additional question arises if it is possible for someone who has the right to propose an amendment to the law, who has the right to propose a law and so on, to give a simple incentive and ultimately raises a question of constitutional law because each citizen has the right to encourage and appeal to state bodies and to receive answers. So the question arises how is it possible that such a question is not covered by this content and is not covered by these amendments. But that's why something happened that I find completely unacceptable by not entering into the motive of why it was proposed. It is not acceptable to restrict the right of associations not only of the Homeland War but of any association and body, that, in accordance with their internal structure in accordance with the Law on Associations and in accordance with their views and their acts, they may give recognitions concerning certain positions in relation to both the Homeland War and the merits of promoting certain values and views. There's something left here that surprised me. I will quote Article 4.a: "In order to protect the dignity of the Homeland War, only the distinction and recognition of the Republic of Croatia established by this law and by the procedure prescribed for them can be awarded for participation or contribution in the Homeland War," and it is not necessary to state 4a at all. It is also said here, the provision of Article 4a of this law: "does not apply to the distinctions and recognitions that took part in the contribution of the Homeland War, based on the contribution of the President of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament". So it is again prescribed by law and it is exclusively the authority of the President of the Republic and the Croatian Parliament and in this regard itself it appears that it is simply not possible, it is not necessary to adopt... The law. [[You don't understand.]] Because again, Article 4a, which, Article 4, adds a new Article 4a, which reads: "For the protection of the dignity of the Homeland War and for the participation or other contributions to the Homeland War, only the distinction and recognition of the Republic of Croatia established by this law and by the procedure prescribed by it can be granted." It's all right. In this law, such distinctions and recognitions can only be applied under this procedure, but that does not mean and cannot be interpreted by this provision even if it was adopted completely excessively, that associations cannot actually award their own recognitions which are not set out in this law and do so and do so. And in this regard, respected colleagues and colleagues, it seems that we have actually entered into a debate on the unnecessary issue. About the unnecessary question. Because we have to make sure that this question that tries to interpret that no other recognition is possible for the Homeland War except for the recognitions set out in this law, just doesn't stand. It simply does not stand, because it is an incursion in the autonomy of associations, including some kind of recognition concerning humanitarian associations, and in addition, the whole series of recognitions that have been awarded so far have been made by associations based on their views and should not in this respect limit their right. And one more thing I'd like to say. If all these claims related to the initiative and ultimately to the proposal that this law is proposed amongst other things and to the knowledge that one of the recognitions could be assigned to a particular natural person or legal person in the Republic of Croatia, including a fellow representative of Branimir Glavas, then this is absolutely unacceptable motive and reason for proposing the law. It is unacceptable for laws to be passed for an individual. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in fact, it is the turning of democracy in its opposite, and in such a situation, should simply not be the basis for the adoption of the law, and for all of this I will personally be against this law, as at the same time I propose to the promoter that once again all the initiatives from the Associations of Homeland War and not only the Association of Protection of the Legislatives of the Homeland War which deals with and protect the rights of defenders of the Homeland War but also other associations should be well considered, to consider the views of representatives clubs and individual representatives who are spoken about this debate and so far changes and the addition of the law and to finally come with amendments and additions to the laws on the merits and recognitions of the Republic of Croatia which would actually have to meet certain normal things in accordance with the Constitution and the law which are the order of things, and not to come with the proposals under which the rights are further. Besides, you know, it's kind of a real association. You know, associations have the possibility under the Constitution to guarantee everyone the right to free association in order to protect their breakthroughs or to take over social, economic, political and others. Well, that's their right to join and to promote those rights and interests. How can you limit them to this unless the Constitution has again reached a situation that says: "Freedom and rights can only be limited by law to protect other people's rights, and legal order, public morality and health". E respected colleagues, have you found such a provision in Article 16(1)? A constitution, that is, such a basis, so that you can prescribe such a restriction for all our associations by law? It seems to me that you are not and that is why I warn you that such a provision would not be sufficient even in accordance with the Constitution and that is why I suggest that you withdraw this bill from the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79939	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Law on Supplements to the Law on Features and Recognitions of the Republic of Croatia. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee and adopted by the Proposer. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 74 for, 7 abstentions and 4 against the passed bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79942	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. The proposed law aligns the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties with the provisions of Article 151(1). Law on civil servants in order to depolitise the state service management system. Namely, the position of Deputy Deputy Secretary of Government, Secretary of State, Deputy Secretary of State, Deputy and Assistant Director of State Administration, Deputy and Assistant Chief State Inspector and Head of Government's Office shall be translated into the posts of state officials. Secondly, the Law on the State Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia, the President, Vice-Presidents and members of the State Election Commission, are state officials and it is therefore necessary to supplement the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties with those officials, since the Law on conflict of interest is laid down by officials within the meaning of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties. Lastly, the provisions of Article 3 of this Act stipulate that the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article will apply on the day of entry into office of the Government after the first subsequent parliamentary elections, in such a way that those positions and the jobs of civil servants exist, and so far the positions of the assistant ministers are abolished. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79943	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79944	Your Honor, Mr. President, I am correcting the incorrect allegations of the Deputy Secretary of State because this is also a pointless law because of the fact that the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest does not determine officials. However, officials have already been laid down by the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials. And the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest just relies on this part so that this is the same senseless law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79945	Legislative Committee, Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Club of HDZ Representatives, Honored Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79946	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Just a few sentences on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the conduct of public duties. This really isn't a law that goes into the essence of things, which isn't some kind of structural law. I'd say this is a law that further updates the list of state officials. And I have to say that there was an opinion expressed on the Legislative Committee that in principle and if we hadn't passed this law, nothing would have happened. That's really true. However, why will we, as a Croatian Democratic Community Club, still support this law? We will support it because in the making of the law, we have applied the nomotechnic in a way that we have counted exactly who the government officials are in the law. Therefore, if someone no longer has the status of a state official but receives administrative status, or if someone under some other law acquires the status of officials, we think it is not technically right to update this list that is actually updated by this law. Therefore, this Law should be seen in total with this other law to go, the Law amending the Law on the Rights of Officials of State. And de facto it's all one matter. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports this law, although I think we will have to open up questions, it is fundamentally related to the Law on preventing conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties. Because here, we had on the Committee on the Constitution and certain requirements, certain enquiries because there are discrepancies in the application of the law itself. We seem to have had a lot of problems in interpretation and practice. So I think we're going to have to open up the other issue, and this one is a matter of purely technical implementation and harmonisation of this law to other laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79947	Thank you. HNS representative club, respected representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79948	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party Club will not support this bill for the following reasons. Namely, when only this bill is read, then it would be, and especially because of the content of the reasoning given by following it should be taken and read two more by me by very important law. And this is the Law on the Obligations and Rights of Officials and the Law on the Procedure of Handing Over Authorities. And when you put those three laws together and make an inventory of all the changes and additions that we've been doing in those laws for the past three years, then you'll either get or you should have one table to see what actually and now this law wants to be done. But one of the reasons why the promoter of these changes is wrong is that in this country we are making amendments and additions to the law, and we never publish consolidated texts, and apparently the Office of State Administration missed or forgot, or could not read out the gaps that happened to them. The Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials has 28 categories of officials he mentions, states and determines as state officials. With this Law, from preventing conflicts of interest, the Government proposes to exclude the Deputy Secretary of State of the Republic of Croatia, Assistants, Ministers, Secretary of State, Deputy State Authorities in central state offices, Deputy and Assistant Directors of State Administration Organisations, Deputy and Assistant Chief State Inspector and Head of Office, agencies and Directorates of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. They can no longer be in conflict of interest, i.e. the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest will not apply to them. So these are categories for which the government argues that they cannot be in conflict of interest, that they do not have to be covered by law because of some alignment with someone or something. But it's interesting next. Yes, in the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest is the Director and Assistant Director of the Croatian Employment Service, but is not in the Law on State Officials. The Director of the Peace Institute is a state official, but the Director of the Employment Service is not, but is in preventing conflicts of interest. Furthermore, believe it or not, the Chief Inspector of the State Inspectorate is not a state official under our Law, but is in the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. As it is possible that 3 directors of the Institute are in the prevention of conflicts of interest and in state officials, only the Director of the Employment Office is not. Chief State Inspector, Chief Inspector of the State Inspectorate, is he a state official or not? He's not in the law. He's got it in the prevention of conflict of interest. When we finally put these 3 laws together and agree on one table to which the Law on State officials applies, which are in conflict of interest, and if we had consolidated texts, probably the Proposer would have a easier job, and I also noticed that with frequent changes someone turns out to be, we return it, and then 2, 3 categories run away from us and we have to return them again and constantly change the laws for it. And now I come to the third law. The law on the procedure of handing over authorities. In the light of this Act, as a reason why the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest is exempt from the Deputy Secretary, Assistant Minister, Secretary of the Ministry, says it is a alignment with something. But the Law on the handover of Deputy Deputy Secretary of the Government and Assistant Ministers cited as persons who put their mandate when the new government arrives. Does this mean that after this amendment, the government will come tomorrow with a proposal to amend the Law on the process of handing over authorities from which the Deputy Secretary of Government and Assistant Ministers will be excluded? If we leave them out of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, if they are not state officials, and they are in the Law handovers by the authorities, then we have to delete them here too because this is the intention of leaving out those categories in step two. It needs a table that must be present when we read these laws. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, I suggest the following, that we no longer suffer, that we no longer have to amend and supplement the law, that we do not have to make our own tables to figure out who is covered by what law. In the Law on the procedure of handing over authorities, let's delete everything except the Prime Minister, so that everyone stays after the election at their posts because after this there will be only four categories. It went on, a colleague went to Jarnjak, and in the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest after this clearing, which is now proposed to exempt at least a hundred people who have been in the Law. Is it not simpler then to simply say that in Croatia, the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests applies to me and Mr. Radiir Cacic, then it is clear, precise and clean law and we will no longer need to change it every three months. That's why we won't support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79949	Thank you. SDP club, a respected representative, vice president of Dom Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79950	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club doesn't say it won't, but it can't vote for this law. I must say that indeed in this inflation of the bill's proposal, waiting for a break of the Constitution for winter is actually trying to substrate the MPs to vote as soon as possible and then, of course, we get through the night of the laws that we need to discuss and which, of course, we need to bring in to actually clean out the drawers in which these legal texts, by protecting or promoting groups and individual interests, stand for several months or even a year. For the first time in this Bill proposal, we have received one new explanation of the emergency procedure and, among other things, it is proposed that this emergency procedure should be adopted and that this Act could be harmonised in the framework of the World Bank adjustment programme loan. Now listen, we now have a situation to coordinate our laws and programs with the World Bank, not with the laws and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Another thing that would be interesting, they say, is how we estimate that the conditions laid down in Article 159 have been met, and Article 159 speaks of quite other issues of non-compliance with the World Bank's programming loans, of course, about the economic interests of the Republic of Croatia, about defence and security, and that we do not list what the Rules of Procedure is saying. Therefore, a completely missed ground for emergency procedures. Third, the question arises, in fact, what is the law called that proposes to modify the supplement? This Act, as you know, is called the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the exercise of public duties and is not only government officials who carry out public duties but also all employees who work in administrations and public administrations who have public authority also carry out public duties and may be in conflict of interest. Therefore, the time should actually come for this law to be amended and complemented and to clarify what is a state official in the exercise of public duties and what are all others in the exercise of public duties to clear this issue, that is another principled remark we want to make in this segment. Third, it is said that this Law is in line with Article 151. The law that will only apply after the next elections, and for the first time, we are under the regulation that this Law will move someone from the zone of the civil servant to the area of the civil servant by force of the law, not by the law actually called upon by colleagues, is the Law on civil servants by which a civil servant should be admitted to the state service on the basis of a competition in which the ability should be determined, etc., etc. Only this shows that the existing structure of government officials who want to become civil servants and ensure a permanent place practically fits that idea and therefore they push this. Fourthly, one very important fact is ignored that the law does not comply with the law that is being amended, and then the proposals that change at the same time remain conditional on me to make such a visit in view of the other provisions of the applicable Law. So, for example. In Article 2, the Law states, among other things, in paragraph 2, I quote: "The officials within the meaning of this Act will be regarded as other officials of office appointed or confirmed by the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in the further text of the Government, or the President of the Republic of Croatia, of course, if that is specified by an act of choice or approval, except for the President when appointed by the Armed Forces." Now, please explain to me how the offices of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, who will appoint the head of the office? The government will either appoint an anonymous head of some kind of professional service, a state administration that has nothing to do with that office. That's impossible. They'll name the government. Does the head of this office still remain a civil servant under this law? Yes, because that paragraph 2 of Article 2 has not been amended or complemented and in this respect it will actually come into conflict, the conflict of jurisdiction in the same law. On the one hand, it will be claimed that it is not a state official, and on the other hand you have a provision of a law which prescribes that it applies on behalf of... as regards the state official and in such a situation, it is absolutely clear that this provision which is now being amended is not in itself functionally agreed on in relation to the content of the law which is being amended and supplemented and therefore is not consistent and cannot be accepted for this reason and for this reason. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, there is an additional issue that needs to be considered in particular. We have passed this law that regulates the question of the Law on Civil Servants, you know what conditions, but it should be pointed out that the reasons we had at the time for the adoption of this Law were not shown in this Croatian Assembly. It is now said that this Law was to be passed among other things in order to actually comply with the plan and the programme loan for adaptation... The World Bank, because it should strengthen the hooves of our state administration's expertise, as state assistants, directors and their deputies will become civil servants, will no longer be state officials. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So how are we going to strengthen their expertise if they don't already have it or have it anyway? If they have it, they are certainly professional in themselves, and if they are civil servants, then both under these laws and under other laws, they have increased responsibility to carry out their professional and other tasks and it is not clear why they should be deleted from the law governing conflict of interest. Because, among other things, regardless of what, and even if we were no longer state officials as proposed here, they are again subject to the Law on Conflict of Interest. Therefore, nothing will happen, and this law is completely unambiguous and it should not be supported at all, it should not be debated. This should be withdrawn from the procedure because it's simply inadmissible. On the other hand, the question now is what everyone here rightly might think and why these categories of people who have actually worked most to prepare the proposal and implement certain acts put in place to try to translate them into civil servants and delete them from the category of civil servants to which the Law of Conflict of Interest should apply. That's very interesting and especially after these choices, this is amazing but true. Which is why the category of our government officials wants to be secured after the next election and not be in a position to discuss it. This is not about the World Bank and we have no obligation to coordinate the legal system of the Republic of Croatia with the World Bank but we have a obligation to bring the legal system in line with the European Union system. And in the European Union system, it is not only public officials who carry out public duties and who can therefore come into conflict of interest. However, for them there are regulations that regulate a complete, whole state administration on conflict of interest, regardless of where specific legislation is passed in certain Member States, and somewhere a code is adopted. And here we are trying from a law that we have opened up to some extent this area of potential conflict of interest, to erase certain categories to actually narrow down the possible number of those to which the conflict of interest applies. Therefore, this bill itself in that segment opens up a potential conflict of interest instead of resolving it. And for that reason, we certainly can't support this bill. And additionally, what we would like to point out in particular is the issue related to the State Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia, which is said to be the president, vice president and members of the State Election Commission to which the conflict of interest law applies. We agree with this, of course, but the question is whether this should be possible, perhaps extended in the light of that provision, I say again in Article 2 which speaks will be considered by other acting officers appointed or confirmed by the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, whether other categories of state officials should be introduced in addition to this category, concerning the facts about those persons appointed and confirmed by the Croatian Parliament, related to certain agencies, relating to certain councils we appoint, which the Croatian Government appoints and which are not counted in the category of public officials and performs public duties. And not only do they carry out public duties but, among other things, their decisions affect the distribution and availability of huge funds in the Republic of Croatia, including significant funds that come out of the state budget or the funds that come out of public companies or companies in which the state weighs or the majority owner. All this shows that this legislative proposal is not actually prepared for quality so that it could be brought now and that it should be withdrawn from the procedure and prepared a new bill that would resolve these issues in a quality way and in this respect could get our support. Therefore, we do not claim that amendments to the Law on conflict of interest should not be approached, on the prevention of conflicts of interest, but such a bill does not resolve this issue but actually deepens conflicts and dilemmas about conflicts of interest and to whom conflict of interest or conflict of conflict of interest should all be applied. I'm undermining, we're voting for such a proposal to amend and supplement the law we won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79951	We're going to continue the debate. The HSS Club is a respected representative of Zvonimir Sabati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79952	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates! So allow me just a few sentences to state on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party club, although there is a little noise in the assembly, I will try to be a little louder. I would like to start by saying that the Croatian Peasant Party Club is certainly not ready to support this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest in the conduct of public duties for a number of reasons. That is why we propose to postpone the adoption of this law, and above all because of the confusion created by a series of non-compliant provisions which did not fall within the scope of several of these laws that have been discussed so far, and the Law on the Obligations and Rights of State officials and officials, the handover of authorities, the prevention of conflict. So, on the basis of all of this, it seems to us that one confusion has been made because we don't even know who it's all about anymore, why some officials have been released, why they haven't been released, so we suggest that the adoption of this law be delayed, or we suggest that all these four laws be at the same time on the agenda. At the very beginning, it would seem to us that this is just a formality, pure nomotechnics, harmonising which, in some ways, could be superficially so. However, if you take a closer look at the proposal itself of these amendments and the addition of the law, then there are several reasons that are mentioned here. The first reason and for the first time mentioned here today, it says in an explanation, is in some way the World Bank's condition for a programme loan for adjustment requiring depolitisation of the state administration. This is clearly stated in the opening statement for the adoption of this, not only of this but also of the Law on civil servants, which is little to be honest and unusually accepted by the Croatian Peasant Party. We don't understand why this would be a condition of the World Bank. Another reason may be known to everyone but it is difficult to read somewhere, but it is difficult to know more about him than from discussions in this assembly or through the media. He's mostly kept quiet. However, I would say here that the Croatian Peasants' Party has, in addition to the previous amendment to the Law on Civil Servants, expressed its views that it is not good that today, at the end of the fact today during this term, at the end of the term of office the appointed state officials are transferred to officials and, above all, for the reasons that all these state officials who were listed in a series of these laws were appointed without a tender. So if they were appointed without a competition, then provisions must also be applied to them as they were appointed. So they weren't based on the competition to take on a working relationship but without a competition. That's exactly how they're supposed to be treated today. Among other things, there may be an uncontrollable inflation of government officials. If we look at all this together, it's an extremely large number of government officials. The question is indeed whether all those mentioned here would have to be state officials and should not be reduced. And Deputy Secretary of State, Assistant Director of State Administration Organisations, etc. So, the Croatian Peasant Party is seeking one system of systematicisation of all state officials to see if it can be evened at the same time that all four laws are being discussed and so long as it will not be the Croatian Peasant Party to support this approach and neither will this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79953	Thank you. HSP's respected representative, Pejo Trčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79954	Mr. President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The motion for these amendments and the addition of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests states that the position of Deputy, Deputy Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Secretary of State Secretary of State in the central state offices, Deputy and Assistant Director of State Administration Organisations and Deputy and Assistant Chief Inspector of State Inspectorate and Head of Government of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's translation into the posts of state officials was necessary to bring the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties with new developments. Furthermore, the proposed change in current political positions translates into administrative positions thus ensuring greater expertise and professionalisation of the state administration. And that's what the proposer does to depolitise the state service management system. What demagogy and nonsense! That is all I can say about these amendments and the addition of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. I must say on this occasion that the Croatian party of law or the club of HSP has proposed a quality law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the past term but unfortunately did not come across the understanding of other political parties but was adopted as it is. maimed that his name was only left. I must also point out on this occasion that the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests which it is currently working is actually in a difficult position because the law has a lot of indetermination, is not quality and the Commission itself proposes in its work some changes and additions so that the Commission can do as best and better work as possible and not as it does now without any jurisdiction to prevent conflicts of interest. You should know that the Committee now acts more or less educationally, warns and explains to various officials what they can and can't do or what they can't do and can't do. And the commission seems more or less preventive for now. The State Officials Act regulates who's a state official and who's not? So we're not really going to regulate who's a state official and who's not? HSP simply cannot and will not support such a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest because it is really inadmissible and irresponsible that the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest defines who will be and who will not be a state official? It is also unacceptable in this proposal to amend and supplement the law where the erasure and assistant ministers are proposed along with these other proposals, and we wonder if this is actually the basis for perhaps some kind of adoption of the Law on the handover of authorities when in the new Law on the handover of government we will only get a proposal that only state officials can be changed. Well, you don't think gentlemen that after the upcoming parliamentary elections or the next parliamentary elections you'll be able to leave all the ministerial assistants and all the others who are now here according to this proposal should be some kind of professional person without any policy. The HSP Club proposes that this, simply this proposal be removed from the agenda, to be completed and requested by the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests as well as any amendments, quality amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests can be included in these amendments and additions. And on behalf of the HSP Club, I would like to ask you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, because I find you in some way responsible for preventing such unquality amendments and supplementing the law from coming to the agenda in front of parliamentary deputies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79955	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivo Josipovic. Here you go. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79956	Yeah. Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, of course, I join my colleagues who have pointed out that this law has an instrumental nature and that it aims at a certain human transition that is not quite appropriate to me by democratic political systems. So I won't do it again, but I would point out one other thing. I fully agree with my colleague Bošnjakovic, who claimed that our conflict of interest regulations require a redesign and a serious redesign. I'd add, not because they're bad on their own. I think they've fulfilled their function, that we've opened up a process that has positively affected the political environment in which we all work. But the time has come to sum up some experiences and to make sure the law is fixed. There's plenty of room for the experience that we've all had together in the debates in this House and in the practice of the commission for which here's another one, as well as during the debate on his report, I point out that I think he's done a valuable job. That is why only one brief proposal for the proposings. I couldn't stand the amendment, but here I am asking the Government if it can accept that in the list of state officials, I don't see the Secretary of State, here it is, thank you, Mr. Secretary of State, to drop the vice presidents and vice presidents. Namely this provision, it is only a matter of time before someone will gather strength and time to challenge before the Constitutional Court the appointment of a rector and promoter on the list of state officials due to the constitutional principle of independence of the University. Indeed, according to what they do or function, they are not government officials. I know for a certain system of wages at one point they are incorporated to have not some miserable salary but appropriate in the regulations governing the salaries of government officials, but the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest says in terms of this law. And certainly rectors and prophesies are not persons who are in such a situation, or cannot find themselves in the same conflict of interest that members of the government, Parliament or high, other senior state officials can. So here's what I'm not suggesting, with my own amendment, the government just drops the vice presidents and proctors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79957	Thank you. Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79958	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'm glad HDZ realized that after the next election, he would no longer be in power. Because if they hadn't figured it out, they wouldn't have come with a bill like this. With this bill of law, they're turning their hawks, not to speak incompetent suddenly into capable ones. That means they're being transferred from state officials, from those places they came politically to places where they can no longer be removed. The evidence that HDZ is ready to leave the political scene, actually leave with, is what they realized for themselves that they could be removed. Otherwise, while, while the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests spoke with Mr. Palaric, we prayed and proposed in amendments and additions that went on now a year and something, almost two, to equalise state officials according to both laws. It means under the Law on Obligations and Rights of State officials and this Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. Because we knew things like this would happen, that it would go backwards to solve the question of who the government official was? To this day, we do not know how many government officials we have because, according to Article 2 of the Law, the government has never delivered to the Commission a list of state officials who are in accordance with Article 2 of the Law, which says: “The officials within the meaning of this law will be regarded as other acting officers appointed and confirmed by the Croatian Parliament, the Government and so on. The government has never delivered this list to the Commission and the commission until today does not know if there are 1,100, 1200 or 1,300 officials. Now these changes when we throw out some of us make even more of a mess. And we finally have to define in a way that is unequivocal to know how many government officials are in this country. Because the commission can't control it at all. At the time when we asked the government for a list, we only got a list from the ministries and 113 officials. We've never got who the directors are, who they are, or how they're not all called agencies and various other institutions. So, gentlemen of your hawks, you're turning your incompetents into capable ones. You're ready to leave power, and I'm glad, but don't deal with it this way. Take this law off the agenda and don't just embarrass yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79959	Final review by Secretary of State of the Central State Administration Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79960	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Well, I've got a problem with how to speak without making it seem like I'm insulting someone. Namely, because I must again point out that it is being discussed about a law that was not understood. By passing the Law on civil servants a year and a half ago, we made it clear that we were going to depolitize and professionalise the state service, but we made it clear how. I have to stress that again now because it's obvious that it doesn't want to be understood. We have no intention of leaving any assistant, no secretary, no one who's listed. All those new governments, who can be old as they are, but after the election, the new government will make a mandate available to all and this clear because of the journalists, because of the public, all current ministers, state secretaries, deputy state secretaries in the central state offices, and all those listed under the Law on State Servants, will surrender by transfer of power, place a mandate at their disposal, and the new government that I have said will be either old, or new, combined with the people whose trust will call the tender. It will discuss the tender for future directors, so far the assistants will be directors of the administration, secretaries of the ministries according to the criteria of expertise. The competition will be open to anyone who meets the conditions. He'll also have the right to appeal if he doesn't get elected and we'll depolitize the state service but we won't leave the current assistants. And the state secretaries will, of course, put a mandate at their disposal and, in executive bodies, the ministries and central state offices will be elected by political criteria by ministers and state secretaries, and all other jobs will be official jobs. We could have done it now. We could now choose who we want in the contest, but we didn't want to but we wanted to create a clean situation to apply the new model after the election and that we all know in the elections what rules are being put into elections. Here, I hope I didn't offend anyone if I once again emphasized the meaning of that law to which this law is called from the People's Newspaper 92/05. Therefore, those provisions which are in force and which clearly state that all ministerial assistants and secretaries of the ministry will have to put a mandate at their disposal, that these jobs will be opened and then selected by the most professional, best and finally we will introduce in Croatia a model that works everywhere in Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79961	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79962	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State says you could have chosen. You could have, but you didn't. You're the one who named it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79963	Vice-President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79964	I'd like to say, Mr. President, that it's not exactly Mr. Secretary of State's claim that we could have chosen so far, but we didn't want to, because by law, state assistants and office representatives don't choose. And the law did not provide for a tender, among other things not to touch the existing structure of the current government today, because you would significantly disrupt political relations, including the survival of the government itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79965	I'm closing the debate on the bill. Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the conduct of public duties. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's get on with it. Vote? The result? With 80 for 1 abstention and 11 against the proposed Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79968	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We are facing the Final Proposal for a Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, which aims to resolve three, according to the Government's opinion, important issues. The first is to determine salaries for the president, vice-presidents and members of the State Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia. The second goal is partly to contribute to the fight against corruption in such a way that certain state officials are statusally increasing rank and rising, increasing the salary coefficient and the third same as the previous law, which model will make the depolitisation of individual state officials now in place who, here we are already tired of repeating this formula, but so it must be in all laws and I reiterate that depoliticalisation will be carried out by competition. Perhaps the answer to the earlier replica, yes, we could have introduced the competition now and filled people's jobs. But we left it to the new government, because we think it's correct. Mr. President, in relation to the salaries of the State Election Commission, we have, despite criticism and differing opinions, remained at high coefficients, we believe that this is an extremely important body. Of course we will respect the will of the majority in this House but the government has considered it. What's said here is by no means winning the lottery, as someone thought, but it's an honorable and responsible duty. Of course it's a duty for people to act on it. We are convinced that the State Election Commission will play a role and education in the electoral processes, mainly in relation to young people, that when it strengthens and humanely forms a professional service, it will also be able to take over the lists of voters. Therefore, we also want high coefficients to be the reason for the most prominent lawyers to be elected in these places. We also propose to delete the governor and deputy governor of the Croatian National Bank from this law, as their salary is determined under a special regulation. Furthermore, we want the Chief State Inspector and the Director of Police to have a higher coefficient than before, but we also do the difference between government offices. In fact, in the pyramid of the government's trinity, the coefficients also go from the president of Parliament, the Prime Minister and the President of the Supreme Court. They're going down, and here's to government offices, but the difference is between an office that deals, which has fewer people and less activity, to large offices, especially sensitive ones. We therefore propose new coefficients for the heads of the Office for Law, which is an extremely important office. Then the Public Relations Office. And the Office for General Affairs of the Croatian Parliament and Government, which has several hundred employees. Gentlemen and Madam Representatives, please accept this law so that the State Election Commission can form and begin work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79969	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Pejo Trčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79970	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm going to correct Mr. Secretary of State's incorrect allegations when he said that these proposed state officials should be improved, their salary increased, because from that statement that bribes and corruption could then be prevented, which can be read from the fact that the proposed officials have been corrupt so far. There you go. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79971	Thank you. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, the political system, the legislation? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. HSP counseling club. Honored representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79972	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, dear Secretary of State. So we at the Croatian Party club right this Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials have been named "Maček's Law". I don't mean Vlatko Matček, head of HSS, but Ratko Matček, spokeswoman in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Namely, for what? Because here is a fundamental goal of increasing wages to the Croatian Government's spokeswoman, and that is nothing less than a representative in the Croatian Parliament. In fact, the government again sends its unequivocal message of what it thinks of us fellow MPs and further humiliates us. Why do I say that? Because the difference between us MPs and government officials is important, this is about lower government officials, because we are elected, so we are elected by the Croatian people, Croatian citizens are choosing us. And until the government officials are elected, the government also calls it a mahogany and without competition. So we're going through this part that basically if we look at what democracy today is in the world, means indirect democracy, each of us here is representing the interests of at least 15 thousand Croatian citizens, as long as it took except for representatives of national minorities, how much it took to win the elections in order for someone to be elected parliamentary. And now that it's all that further underestimation of our representatives, that the government thinks we're the lowest here and that our salary is such that none of the government officials can have less pay than the MPs have. It's visible to you here. Be careful, so in the ranks of Croatian Parliament representatives with salaries are primarily meant by the head of the Public Relations Office. So here is the head of the Government's Legislative Office, we know what laws we get here from the Government to the Croatian Parliament. The head of the General Affairs Office of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia continues to say. I think it is really incomprehensible what the relationship of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to us parliamentary representatives who have been elected by Croatian citizens to represent them on their behalf, to bring regulations that will be for the benefit of Croatian citizens, for the benefit of Croatian states when we have this underestimating attitude of the Government of Croatia towards the parliamentary representatives. Well, then it would be wise to apply the law to abolish the salaries of parliamentary deputies and at the same time the government so employs these officials with that status, and then, since we won't have a salary, then we can do a phone vote, provided these government officials decide that such a general thing can be done. So this is really one inadmissible behavior of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Because the situation is well known that we are slowly no matter what constitutional provisions we are slowly entering the so-called. the office system, and this is visible from this change and addition contained in so-called The cat's law. So for the government, let's say normal vice presidents and members of the State Election Commission, so a member is the same as a parliamentary representative, although he will be in this commission for 8 years, he will have to have a job not to know what he's been doing after 8 years, given how much he has, means state elections, parliamentary elections, for the president of the state and these local and then let's say vice presidents of the State Election Commission normally they have to be a little higher behind the MPs, they have to have a coefficient of 5.70 and the president has to have a coefficient of 6.42. And now this is an interesting situation, says the Secretary of State, the governor of the National Bank can no longer be here and the Vice-Governors because they have such obligations, so much debt to Croatia that they can't have such low wages according to this 7.14 coefficient should give them more pay. So far more wages than it is according to this coefficient because they are so, so much taking care of Croatia that they owe it so much, and still this same team keeps doing it and now they normally, they will have by special regulations far more pay. Now, if we look legally at that the Law on Officials is the one that determines the officials, means those who are in charge and today are in charge of Croatia, will no longer be officials under the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, and means they will not be responsible for that part that will be possible, and already they are not only possibly but also de facto and deura in conflict of interest and some other far more difficult circumstances, they will not even be able to come to the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, and they have no great powers whatsoever. Therefore, if you wish to have the view that parliamentary representatives are elected and are not appointed, then please return the bill to Mr. Maček or to the others you want to raise wages, let them travel cars all day long because they have the right to, in contrast with us, MPs in the Croatian Parliament, all these officials have the right to use a personal car for 24 hours. As soon as the car leaves Zagreb, they write their journals, then they deal with intellectual services in various ways to write the regulations that they propose to the government as such, and the Government proposes to the Croatian Parliament, don't embarrass yourself and don't underestimate us MPs in the Croatian Parliament because most of us have come here honorably and honestly trying to do their jobs, to advocate the improvement of the Croatian state, to improve Croatian citizens. And what I heard, that is, from the HSP club, said some government officials when they saw that they would have a salary as a parliamentary representative, they said they were underrated. Here's what kind of name and what kind of government leads politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79973	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79974	Mr Kovacevic said: "This law is about underestimating the MPs" a finished quote. I think, Mr. Kovacevic, that this is the wrong quote and it is the wrong allegation. This is about something far worse. This is about underestimating Parliament, Parliament as a state institution and that is the problem. They are not the problem of MPs, but the problem is the degradation of Parliament. No one in this assembly will talk about salaries but first of all how to protect the dignity of the Croatian Parliament, this honorable House. They should have high wages, but still some distinction should exist as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79975	For the HDZ Club, respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79976	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Central State Office representative. We in Parliament have passed the Law on the State Election Commission as a permanent and professional body and by passing this law have significantly improved our legal system, we have introduced a new institution and this move to pass this law from the entire international public and the local public assessed as a major step forward. In any case, if we have passed a law establishing the State Election Commission, then we must pass a law, amending a law that requires both coefficients and wages for the president and vice president and members of that State Election Commission. That's what these laws do. It's one thing this law prescribes. The law also prescribes a coefficient for the chief state inspector who performs a number of very complex tasks, manages a very important state body, meaning the State Inspectorate, determines the coefficient for him. Article 2 of this Act lays down the coefficients for both the President of the State Election Commission and the Vice-Presidents of the State Election Commission, also for members of the State Election Commission, for the Chief State Inspector, for the Head of the Office for Law, the Head of the Office for General Affairs of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Head of the Public Relations Office, the Director of the Police. It seems by this law, their wages are determined through these coefficients. Whether these coefficients are affected, they are too high, they are too small, they can indeed be talked about. But what I would say on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, we must, as we stand for the state of knowledge, we must also stand for the state of expertise and for the state of efficiency and responsibility. We must have our state administration properly and pay. Along the way, we warned about this pay phone, and we were actually saying that all our people in the state administration, all kinds of functions, were being paid off. We had one negative selection at the state administration, low wages were, anyone who found any other job from the state administration has gone. So I think we have to push for it because in the procedure it seems to me that it is also in the drafting of the Law on the salaries of civil servants and subsistence, that these salaries are finally at one level that this civil servant does not have to be ashamed of what he does in the civil service. That's what matters. And this, are these salaries, I think, make the wages right, make the wages an adequate fee for that work that these people are doing. Whether the government underestimates us or underestimates us as parliamentarians, I don't think that's a central question. The coefficients and the salaries of the assembly representatives, gentlemen, are determined by us, not by the government. We! It is only a question that no club, no club will certainly come with a bill of amendments that will increase the coefficients for parliamentary deputies. And you know why? Because that's not gonna score in a political game. And so the debate about whether or not the government underestimates us is too high for me. Whoever thinks we're underrated, here's how we propose changes to the law, let's increase the coefficients for parliamentary deputies, and we'll see how that doesn't matter how they evaluate the government, but how they evaluate the public. Which is why salaries in the previous term of the Croatian Assembly of Parliamentary Representatives and Ministers and Government, which is why they are reduced, that is the question. Or the basics, I don't know what's reduced anymore, but that's a very important question. As far as Article 3 is concerned, it also refers to what we talked about earlier. On the day of entry into office of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, following the first subsequent parliamentary elections, the Deputy Secretary of State, Deputy Secretary of Government, Head of Government, Deputy State Secretary of State of the Central State Office, and Deputy and Assistant Director of the State Administration, shall become the jobs of state officials, and the current positions of ministerial assistants shall be abolished. The goal is to depolitize the administration. Depolitisation of the administration in the programmes of all our political parties. We want management not at political level, we want the management of expertise, the management of knowledge. That's what we all aim at. And therefore, neither this provision nor that former law that a colleague of Kapraljevic here called out for either our Hawks or our incompetent people, but all these officials will no longer be officials, they will simply be administrative officials. They will be awarded a competition, the competition will be attended by all and who are not members of political parties, but will have to submit their diplomas to the competition, all convictions of whether they are professional or not in competitions or will pass or not pass. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports the adoption of this Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79977	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79978	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that the aim of this law is to depolitize the state administration. Well, we know that Mr. Puss didn't come for expertise but for political resemblance. That the Chief State Inspector also came in political likeness. Everyone here has come for a political resemblance except the police director, Benk.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79979	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative of Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79980	This Regulation shall enter I didn't say that the sole objective of the law is to depolitize the state administration. I said that the component of the program of all parties is the depoliticalization of the administration, that's what I was talking about. And I didn't mention Mr. Cat at all. So I don't think a breach of the Rules of Procedure can be fixed by something the MP didn't say.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79981	No, I don't think Article 209 was injured, he, in the context of your speech, corrected the incorrect allegations and I don't think the Rules of Procedure was injured. IDS Club, the esteemed representative of Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79982	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. It's always about the trio of power. So, the court, the legislative, the executive. There we can certainly add this monetary authority and to be completely open and honest, I have no objection to the Governor or the Governor of the Croatian National Bank being treated as Prime Minister or Vice-President of the Parliament. In fact, Vice-President of the Parliament or Vice-President of the Government. That makes sense to me. I don't mind having others paid well, although I would like the directors of these large Croatian companies from the Croatian Forests, INA, HT, which is still 51% state-owned. Then the directors of HEP, Croatian Radio Television, Croatian Insurance, i.e. the other directors of public enterprises immediately reduced to the minister's rank, at least as far as salaries are concerned. So, on those 17 and a half thousand kunas, not to have 3 and some and four times the salary of the president of the state who has a salary, if I'm not mistaken, 21 thousand kuna, plus they have those annual bonuses. For example, three directors of Croatia's insurance have an annual bonus of one million kuna. They didn't take a million kunas, they took and they divided 500 thousand kunas. They gave 500 thousand kuna to General Gotovina's Foundation. Plus, they have several million kuna severances, but worst of all, these gentlemen lead the privatisation of major state-owned companies, and after privatisation, instead of coming out of that company they privatize along with the government, no less than they are stuck in the position of the new company's director. And then it's set up normally for whose interest they're doing those privatisations. For our own, we know that, but we know the same for whom we don't. Certainly not for the state. I repeat, as my predecessor said, no one is against high wages. I would also like the leading doctors in this country to have salaries higher than the minister. I don't mind when, say, editors of Croatian Radio Television also have big salaries. Let them have it. They should have far higher salaries from university professors, but I'm bothered that people who extract legitimacy from the Parliament are treated the same as parliamentarians. They have what Pero said, and offices and cell phones and cards and cars, which the MPs clearly don't, but now it doesn't matter. When you look on the other side how Croatia's insurance is arranged, I know, Croatian Radio Television, HEP, etc., it is "space shuttle" towards the Croatian Parliament or the Croatian Government or the Office of Presidents. Come on, it's still okay up there. And so be it. But if we object to these gentlemen from point 6 being paid as agents, we're not doing it because we overestimate ourselves, which we're against being well paid by the Director of Police. So make sure he gets paid well. It is when we speak and perform in this way that we fight for the dignity of this House. In one word, we are fighting for the integrity of the legislative authority. And that's the point. So, the point is to fight for the integrity of the Croatian Parliament. I don't want to be cynical, and I don't want to say to Mr. Cat to respect the necessary skills to justify a whole series of government moves, which should be an extraordinary skill. Well, it's both effort and time, isn't it? But the spokesman of any government in Europe or on a globe is not in the ranks of a parliamentary representative or member of their Senate or parliament. It's nowhere in the world. That's not the case in Slovenia, that's not the case in Italy, that's not the case in Austria, that's not the case in the United States, I don't know, Germany and so on. It just can't be. If we care about Parliament's integrity, it must not be in the Republic of Croatia either. He may have a big salary, but he must have one less kuna, but he can't have the same as a parliamentary representative because it's underestimating then the legislative authorities. Clearly, this is also true for this State Election Commission because none of us here are clear except for the secretary of state what they will do in their eight-year term. In a term of eight years, they will have the meaning of two parliamentary elections, they will have two local elections, and they will have one presidential election, and that is to the brother for a maximum of 12 months of work if, but the other 7 years they themselves will not know what they are doing or as Pero says when they leave that post they will not be able to explain what they were actually doing. So I don't want to argue with anyone at all, I don't want to blame anyone, I don't want to deny anyone for this pay phone, but we also have to insist on the dignity of this House. So let's have big salaries, let's have salaries like MPs, but I can't have the same pay as the MPs have, let's say, one won't, because they're on the other side anyway, somebody's going to say during the conduct of a job in some privileged position with maybe the exception of a government spokesman who's trying very hard, we see that, and also the police chief to whom I'd like to be honest I wouldn't like to be in the skin. Article 3 is quoted as saying: "On the day of entry into office of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, following the first next parliamentary elections, the position of the secretary of the ministry, Deputy Secretary of Government, Head of the Government's Office, Deputy Secretary of State of State and Deputy and Assistant Director of State Administration shall become the jobs of state officials, and the current position of Assistant Minister shall be abolished." Now, are these people today acting as State Secretarys holding it up or going home? The option that named them, e.g. She lost the election and it would be a turn for those gentlemen who are now in the post of assistant state secretary anyways. They simply follow, although I may not be in favour of such a radical solution which would be in fact just because, let's say, an MP asks when he fails to fight for his mandate, where I simply advocate that these gentlemen put their mandates at his disposal, and then let the new government, if it comes to the formation of a new government, I suppose he will, chooses which of them he will work with. I'm talking about officials, I'm not talking about officers that we clearly remember in this country only when they strike as recently as it was in the event of a strike of enlighteners. And finally, understandably to oppose the law that disabling the role, I would also say the Constitutional Position of this Parliament. I will repeat once again some have similar, almost the same salary as the MPs, but they must have one kuna lower than not for our sake, but simply for the sake of the dignity of this Parliament and let these gentlemen not be treated as officials. What it will mean at last tomorrow, whether they will keep the same salary and then the next day they will go and this work internship will be paid, which will mean that 20, 30% of the pay will immediately be higher than the MPs, I simply don't know, some other government will worry about it, but I think I will repeat once again that this legal solution degrades Parliament's role. It's the only thing in my court that's problematic. Not their salary, but those individuals can't be in the same rank as the MPs. There's no such thing in the world, so it shouldn't even be in the state. Let them have one less kuna and I'll vote for that law, but I won't vote for this.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79983	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79984	So I have two incorrect allegations to correct Mr. President. Says Mr. Cain: "This law degrades the role of the Croatian Parliament." It doesn't degrade, it humiliates, totally humiliates. And this second quote, he says, "The governor of the National Bank should have the same salary as the vice president of the Parliament, or vice president of the government." You're right, but they'll have five times as much because the government is kicking him out of the rank of officials and he won't be able to be in a conflict of interest at all anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79985	Thank you. One notice, the 52nd session of the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction, will be held today, so Thursday at 15:30 at the "Josipa Jelačića" Hall Centre, a semi-trailer. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79986	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Cain, spoke about the business of the Croatian government spokeswoman, presented an absolutely wrong thesis, one incorrect data, an incorrect quote, which is that it is a difficult job because it is necessary to justify the Croatian government's moves. At least when it comes to this Croatian government and when it comes to this spokeswoman, it is then spared these jobs, because the role of the spokesman is primarily to make statements and promotions of Croatian politics, the policy of a particular government on the economic, social and external agenda. Therefore, particularly Mr. Macek as a spokeswoman for the government does not have the difficulty of having a previous government spokesman in a permanent assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79987	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, a respected representative, Vice-President of the House Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79988	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. We in the Club of Representatives of the SDP understand the need to amend and supplement the Law on the Obligations and Rights of Officials, given the circumstance to determine salaries to the State Election Commission, the President and the members. However, we must also say that we can understand, and also support that this opportunity is used to actually raise the issue of salary change and some other officials, which, in our court, deeply disturbs the relationship within the debt relations, and ultimately pays the status as well. Third thing we'd like to say. They are absolutely right colleagues from other clubs that, compared to the management and management functions in our country, officials' salaries are undervalued, lower, and this is incomparably lower than those functions. There are not tens of thousands of people in Croatia who perform management and managerial functions that have higher salaries than the largest official salary of the President of the Republic, not once, but several times, but respected colleagues in this respect should take care of a few things. We fully understand when it comes to management and management functions carried out in the private sector. The private sector can and should pay as much as anyone wants their managers to achieve the objectives and tasks of business policy, but in this segment we must say that we have a fence in relation to the management and performance of management and management functions when it comes to public enterprises and institutions owned and largely owned by the Republic of Croatia, units of local self-government when actually individuals who act these duties, who are responsible and implement the policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Croatian Parliament have several times more pay, and in fact responsibility for the strategy and achievement of these policies do not have. Second, what we'd like to point out. We, as officials, have and represent in the Croatian Parliament of the citizens of this country in the government, as ministers etc., perform duties in the interest of our citizens. And it is perfectly normal and we need to bear that part, the element of solidarity together with our citizens, and try to share their fate, because we are ultimately not irresponsible to such fate, or we are not even better responsible for the inability to change such fate. And in that respect, we think it was quite right to cut wages, cut the base for our salary. The second question is, should it remain that way to what extent? But what is quite clear is that there are these things and even that we have reduced or not recognised to ourselves what all workers and employees in Croatia have and this is the right to compensation based on years of internships. It is all right for us if in this way they have come to the average salary of a state official who is as much expressed as solidarity with the average salary in the Republic of Croatia. What concerns us is to open a debate about rewarding others, not government officials. Fourthly, when it comes to a concrete bill, we have very serious objections. We can understand the proposal offered here but it is totally unacceptable that, for example, the head of the Public Relations Office has the salary of colleagues and colleagues, you compared among other parliamentary representatives. But imagine, the head of the Public Relations Office will be paid as head of the university. I repeat, the vice president of the university and the head of the Office with the public will have the same salary. Or for example, you'll have a situation that the child's guardian will have the same salary. Or you will have the Chief Deputy Chief State Auditor, State Secretary, Supreme Court Secretary, Secretary-General of the Constitutional Court, Secretary of Parliament, Secretary of Government, etc., etc. Therefore, it is not just the height of the salary but the conflict between the different responsibilities. Is the Secretary of Government anything and is there any responsibility in relation to the head of the Public Relations Office, say Government? Or do I not know, the head of the General Affairs Office of the Croatian Parliament, is there any responsibility to him, for example, the Secretary of the Croatian Parliament? I guess he should be his boss. How is it possible to have the exact same salary, etc., etc., etc. So, some things here are completely, completely disturbed and it can't be without saying that we are still further affecting the relations that are present between government officials regarding those who have been chosen in relation to those who have received Parliament's trust, in relation to those who have been appointed and those who have been appointed. So these are things that just shouldn't be the way they are and that's why it's hard to accept. There's one thing that's finally correcting itself. It's a matter of chief state inspector. It is clear that the Chief State Inspector is not and we have warned of this, as director of administrative organisations, so that we should have their salary. He is an independent institution, at least he should be who should be independent and who should be responsible for the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian government for the functioning and implementation of the law. And we should have, for example, the chief state auditors' salary and not the secretary's rank again, etc., if we want a valid inspection. But it's also disturbed. Therefore, in such a situation it is quite clear that such coefficients that have been set here are difficult to accept and name. Now, when it comes to the head of the State Election Commission. Given the scope and reach of jobs, given the responsibility they are carrying out, it is difficult to imagine that he would have to have a salary in the rank of the minister or president of the working body. You could talk about rank I don't know, management organization, director of an administrative organisation but around this high pay for such a part of the job it's pretty hard to solve by the coefficient. Let us imagine the situation of starting what is normal, which by law should be normal if the special law does not limit, that this coefficient is applied to the average salary in the Republic of Croatia and not to the one that we have limited by law by several, for double-lower, to applying to the calculation of the salaries of government officials. You know, it's not even close to a small salary, and in a situation like that, it's got to be taken care of. The last thing we have to ask is a question. You know, just before the amendment and the addition of the Law on conflict and the prevention of conflicts of interest, we opened the issue up, so we reopen it. After the next elections are past, these officials of the places that are predicted here, such as the head of the Office for Law, the head of the Office for General Affairs of the Croatian Parliament and the Government, the Public Relations Office, etc., become instead of the state official. With individuals now found, of course, they should give a mandate of trust and then the competition will see whether he or she will be elected. But the question is, does that place remain this salary? Or will it begin to apply to them the Law on the Payments of Employees? Dear colleagues, as far as I know, it has never happened that someone who has earned a certain salary does not keep that salary but is actually trying to apply a more unfavourable relationship that applies to the new law. This fellow, it's just inadmissible. This is inadmissible for this reason because this would cause more elements of injustice and, of course, inconsistency not only between officials but also within a certain section of the official, and I wanted to show it not only in relation to the appointed and banned, etc., officials but rather in relation to what is entirely unnatural. On the other hand, should the rectors and vice-rectors be officials in the first place? But since they have already been placed it is impossible for the head of the General Affairs Office to have the same salary as the Rector, Croatian Parliament or Government? Impossible colleagues. It's something you can't understand because then we've demoted the institution of the rector to the last basics and in this respect we have nothing to talk about or the development of science, or the autonomy of the university and not to list a whole series of other questions. As it is also impossible for this law to determine a specific category of persons who will not be a state official tomorrow but will become civil servants of the corresponding salary they will retain and all other categories again, for example, why there are no state assistants and ministers, etc., so that they also get high salaries and keep it to themselves and so on except those who are now listed here. For all these reasons, for us this law is completely, completely unacceptable and besides this one entry into change and addition of the law would actually cause dissatisfaction that would open today-to-morrow... for further discussion on amendments and additions to the Law on State officials and tenants. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the last thing we want to say. We from the club of representatives strongly oppose that such laws appear little in the Croatian Parliament, which turns out that we are discussing ourselves or government officials instead of trying to correct and compare the existing status in such a way as to share solidarity with our citizens whom we represent and represent on the one hand, and eventually take measures that those who also manage social affairs and social property or state property in the interests of these citizens... and bear the fate of those citizens. [[You don't understand the speaker.]] I agree with my colleague Caine, who has cited some examples here that some people who receive benefits from the title of management functions are only because in public and state-owned enterprises they achieve much more income from these titles than the President of the Republic of Croatia does, and let alone when their salaries are accounted for and all the other privileges they have. Therefore, it is simply an unnatural situation. And in such a situation, we believe that there are reasons to correct these laws but not in this way. This is totally unnatural, unacceptable, and it only causes dissatisfaction amongst state officials and I am convinced both among citizens and not only of citizens but also of holders of responsible, serious and very important functions in the social community, starting from the university and being lower and it can't be and should not happen. That's why we're voting against this law. And if you want to keep the actual dignity of this Parliament, then it would be good for this parliament to reject this law if the motioner will not withdraw it in the light of nothing in relation to the need for our reality and ultimately to the fundamental principles prescribed by our Constitution on which the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia rests, because this really doesn't make sense what is done anymore and trying to get past this year as legislative solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79989	Thank you. In the name of the HSS Club, the distinguished representative of Zvonimir Sabati.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79990	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary with his assistant, colleagues and fellow MPs! For a long time now, we have been discussing very important issues that are being dealt with at first sight by small laws. What I would like to mention at first is that this Final Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials has come to our benches in the second reading, but at first to say that this is a more significant, different version than the first reading. There's far more news than we could have expected. Under two, and on the previous subject when I was discussing on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club, I made a certain request to postpone law-making, above all, to try a series of these laws which I also spoke about and the Law on Obligations and Rights of State officials, on officials, on the handover of authorities, on preventing conflicts of interest to be closely harmonised. Then it's no wonder when you get a few new laws with amendments and you just don't know what the final version is anymore. So it would not have happened if, in the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest under indent 3.6, the mayors and the municipal chiefs and the presidents of the municipal councils acting as municipal commissioners, unless something had been changed in the meantime and we had not received this as an additional material in addition to this bill. Likewise, this law that we are talking about, therefore, the Law on the Rights and Obligations of State officials has been left out by the Director of the Croatian Employment Service. Our proposal is such that we should have a completely different approach when proposing such legal proposals. To have a fundamental Law on the Obligations and Rights of Officials, state what their coefficients are and about other laws just call for it. I don't see any reason to repeat it twice, so then something gets left out because changes are being made and supplements don't know why. That's easily possible. So why do you have such an approach? And that's why we asked in the previous point to just try to get all these four laws on our benches and see exactly the comparison of the last versions that is and which is not. When we also talk about this Proposal for a Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, it was said that it was one of the laws aimed at depoliticalising the administration. And in the previous Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, we said that this was not exactly the case with the Law on Officials, etc., we said that those officials who came politically needed and had the fate of politicians and those who came for the contest should naturally have the fate of officials who came on the basis of their knowledge and their working skills. When we talk about the content of this final bill, then I, but at least a little on the side, join those who said that there is still a part of the Croatian Parliament's underestimation, I won't say so much about the MPs because this can be treated in one piece, maybe someone gets hit, but as some kind of political prank. Why? Because the public is very focused on the work of Parliamentarians, and possibly because of how people treat big salaries, whether or not they need to be discussed, and because of the worse laws we are making, and possibly because we see half-empty assemblies today. So, first of all, the public has somehow focused or directed its attention and its focus on parliamentarians and MPs themselves. So, we now want to compare ourselves with other state officials and again the public will treat our deputies have come forward because they are not satisfied with their salaries. It's not like that. We simply have to say once that within this leprechaun of state officials, whoever owns and who is responsible for what has to be done must be done. Why wouldn't the public really know that a parliamentary representative drives his car, doesn't get his daily days when he comes to the Parliament, that he's going to be elected capable, more professional, more competent, and that I don't know how. However, you have not chosen these gentlemen in public competitions so far. These gentlemen have been appointed. And the moment you lose power and this is proof that you're about to lose power, the moment you lose power, then you'll talk about rematch as you already talked about. We've already had a chance to hear that story, because when the coalition came to power, all your officials had prepared their suitcases and waited for someone to dump them, for someone to move them. However, this former government did not have the strength and did not silence you from power, and I personally believe that it should have, that it should have. Even my friend Marasovic didn't drive anyone out of Croatian waters, and now they've replaced his driver. We're not talking about rematchism. Gentlemen, I know, gentlemen. I know the truth hurts. But remember all those gatherings where you were yelling about rematchism. I remember a meeting in Osijek when they talked about what they could do to us, so they only changed one police director. That's how it was at the meetings. I remember there's something about us that we remember. And therefore, gentlemen, what you are doing now and with that Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, and with these amendments and additions to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, that is exactly that. You're fostering your likes and turning them into capable ones. But gentlemen, this cannot be solved only by the bill. They have to prove it at their jobs, and that's why the HNS Club can't possibly support the kind of fart you're proposing today.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79991	Thank you. He has a word on behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed representative Antun Kapraljevic. Login timed out And at 43, good. [[No, not yet.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79992	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here I would agree with Mr. Peru when he says this is Cat's Law, but I would say that this law is divided into two parts. One part is the Mace's law, and the other part is the adoption of HDZ's "japs". No matter how much Bošnjakovic disagrees with this and what he came up with was the argument that this law was passed because of the State Election Commission, however, I would also remind my colleague Bosnjakovic and us here that when we passed the Law on the State Election Commission, we gave the deadline for the State Election Commission to be appointed within 90 days. It's been 275 days until today. We have not yet appointed this State Election Commission. I wonder why and when we'll do it. Are we going to name it three days before the election? Two days before the election or after the election? I believe that one day we will appoint, however, on behalf of the HNS Club, I call on the Mandate-Immunity Commission, in fact, the Committee for Selection and Appointing to do so immediately. Because the candidates are here, the candidates are here, so I know the only problem is that you can't make a deal, so at least I heard who's gonna be president? Make a deal, if you've got it all sorted out, then I'm asking you to get rid of it and that, since we're giving the man today the pay that we know and what kind of man it is? Although it shouldn't have anything to do with each other. I agree with all my colleagues who have said that parliamentary representatives of this bill are the least demoted. And Pero used a far better term for it, and I wouldn't want to talk about it. You'd come to this second part that I called the adoption of the HDZ Hawks. Kola Bošnjakovic said that this was not the case and said that it would all be rectified in some kind of competition, that sometimes in the future all these officials would be more competent and that all these officials would be changed through public competitions,... that they would be chosen capable, more professionally, and that I don't know how. However, you have not chosen these gentlemen in public competitions so far. These gentlemen have been appointed. And the moment you lose power and this is proof that you're about to lose power, the moment you lose power, then you'll talk about rematch as you already talked about. We've already had a chance to hear that story, because when the coalition came to power, all your officials had prepared their suitcases and waited for someone to dump them, for someone to move them. However, this former government did not have the strength and did not silence you from power, and I personally believe that it should have, that it should have. Even my friend Marasovic didn't drive anyone out of Croatian waters, and now they've replaced his driver. We're not talking about rematchism. Gentlemen, I know, gentlemen. I know the truth hurts. But remember all those gatherings where you were yelling about rematchism. I remember a meeting in Osijek when they talked about what they could do to us, so they only changed one police director. That's how it was at the meetings. I remember there's something about us that we remember. And therefore, gentlemen, what you are doing now and with that Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, and with these amendments and additions to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, that is exactly that. You're fostering your likes and turning them into capable ones. But gentlemen, this cannot be solved only by the bill. They have to prove it at their jobs, and that's why the HNS Club can't possibly support the kind of fart you're proposing today.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79993	Correction of the incorrect allegation of the esteemed representative Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79994	Mr. Vice President, my colleague. This law is not about meeting HDZ hawks. To call me the prime minister the person you're promoting as Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. I will not compare that person to the hawk because those noble birds are not comparable to that person.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79995	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Bosnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79996	Well, one false allegation has already been corrected by counterpart Petricevic, and dear colleague Kapraljevic said that I said that we would make amends to the competitions. I just didn't say that we were gonna make up for anything in the competition. I said that certain posts would be abolished, that it would become official posts and that public competitions would be held for those posts. But that's probably true in your party's programming orientation that the state administration is being filled out through public tenders. Anyone who reports to that public tender if they are not respected, not all legal provisions are respected will have the right to actually negotiate in the court proceedings.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79997	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Representative Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79998	Thank you very much. First of all, about new officials and their salaries. Unlike all those who here say that the head of the Public Relations Office should not have a salary as a parliamentary representative, I think he was given a too low coefficient by this bill. First, a man does two jobs. He is also a spokeswoman for the government and a spokesman for the party. A representative shall only perform his or her own representative's duties, and it shall be appropriate that he who performs the two tasks receives and twice as much pay. Second. Both of these jobs are very difficult. The fact that this man has to work for it is a creepy little payoff. He really deserves a far higher salary, twice as much as any representative. Well, look, as soon as he got on duty he had to explain that 12 generals had just surrendered, that there was no HDZ or Sanader's government with that nothing, to surrender to The Hague. He had to explain that the government and Sanader had nothing to do with the arrest of Gotovina, that all Carla del Ponte did, and Carla del Ponte praised Sanader. He had to explain that Minister Vukelic did not sign a trade contract and buy a councilman in Karlovac. He has to explain that the government has nothing to do with the disappearance of $6 million...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u79999	Let me explain to you, that you should return to Honorable Representative Stazic. Your Honor, Representative Stazic! Dear Representative, let me say one sentence as chairman! I need to explain to you that you're back on the subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80000	Thank you very much. And I have to explain to you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, that I am speaking here on behalf of...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80001	Correction of an incorrect quote by the Vice-President of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80002	...that I speak here on behalf of those voters who voted for the SDP list and for SDP's representatives and that I will speak for them and that you will not take away my word to me or any SDP in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80003	I didn't say I'd take away your word, but to return to the subject, not to make the subject a spokeswoman of the government and a description of its place.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80004	He's getting paid! Read the bill. He's getting paid, so I'm gonna talk about it. So I won't talk about you when you don't grow. He's getting paid. I'm talking about him, and I'm saying that he doesn't have enough government to suggest because he has to explain that the prime minister didn't travel to Verona, and then the second day that he was traveling to Verona, that he was traveling privately, that he didn't travel privately, so he doesn't know where the bill was for the hotel. Did he stay at the prime minister's house, is he in the government and why he doesn't give it to reporters when journalists ask him for it and he's a spokeswoman for the government. He must write questions to HDZ MPs in the morning. He has to write the government's answers, the ministers' answers. There's a man working over his head. Anyway, he's got an impossible mission. He has an impossible mission. He has to explain to the public, he's trying to explain to the public that the government is successful, and everyone sees it's not. 70% of respondents say the government is wrongly running the country, and he must explain that it is leading in the right direction. That man deserves a lot of pay. You want to talk about the party? Because it's his second duty, too. And for that, he has to get paid. He must explain that for example Sanader did not become HDZ president by fraud and witnesses claim the exact opposite. That Sanader is right when he claims to be a visionary head and that the attack on the Glavas is an attack on HDZ. Then he has to explain that Glavas is not a visionary.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80005	Mr. Representative, in accordance with Article 214, I give you a warning, and after the following notice, I will take your word for it. Please return to the subject of the Final Law, the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials of State and not to explain here the volume of work of the spokesmans of the Government of Mr. Maček or spokeswoman of the Croatian Democratic Community, because this is not a topic. I give you an article 214 of this notice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80007	The topic is the salary of the head of the Public Relations Office, it says in the law. I'm argumentating why this proposed coefficient is too low. I suggest he increase. Well, Vice President of the Parliament, at least it's not hard to understand that it's in the subject. If you take the law, if you read Article 2 you will see, and if you do not stop calling, devote yourself to the law, read Article 2 and see that I am speaking in the subject. And please don't interrupt me, don't abuse your position as Vice President of the Parliament and the one who's currently running the session to silence the opposition's deputies, because that won't work. It won't work. I'm not gonna tell you what you like here, I'm gonna tell the truth first. And none of what I've said so far is incorrect. This must all be done by the government's spokesman. So, briefly. I don't mind the pay raiser, I even suggest that it be bigger. But I suggest that it be from the HDZ register, not the burden of taxpayers. HDZ certainly has money, if there are 300 kunas to give to Drvenik Velom...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80008	In accordance with Article 215, I take away your word and you have no right to speak on this subject anymore. The word has a distinguished representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go. Excuse me. Replica, you don't have the right to a replica. I took the word. ... Here you go, replica. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You have to explain why you're looking.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80010	That's because you took the word out of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80011	By the way?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80012	Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80013	It's not past the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80014	And well, you do that...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80015	No, it's not past the Rules of Procedure and you can't get it, you can just ask the opinion of the parent committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. Because I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure. I warned once and for the second time in accordance with Article 214. And then, in accordance with Article 215, he took the floor because the esteemed representative Stazic was not holding the topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80016	We'd discuss it if you gave us a break for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80017	Okay. Ten-minute stop. HNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80018	... the club representatives and the other representative of the club representatives if they are not present will explain the position of the club in the exhibition no longer than 5 minutes. Here is the decision by the club of representatives that our representative will be representative of Stazic, he will explain our position, which is why we have asked for a break, and will not talk about the amendment and addition of the law you have taken away from him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80019	Since I have taken away the esteemed representative Stazić's word on this agenda point and that according to this agenda item, Mr. Trazic has no right to talk about this item on the agenda. The break was requested because of that agenda item. If you have someone... Mr. Stazic can't speak at this point. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] He can't! His word was taken from him and you ask for the opinion of the parent committee...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80020	We won't ask. Why would they ask for an opinion...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80021	The Mother's Committee...... You don't have to. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you are on behalf of the SDP club. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The violation of the Rules of Procedure is a respected representative, Antunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80022	Mr. Vice President. There's no one here from our club intent...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80023	What article was injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80024	213. What did you say, Mato? 210.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80025	He's not hurt, I'm grateful. No injured article 210, which says that the speaker can only talk about the subject under discussion. You can't answer for a debate, tell me an article...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80026	What did you say, 213? ... 223.a. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80027	That's what I said to the esteemed vice president of the House that Article 223a was not injured. You have the right to request the opinion of the parent board and on behalf of the club you can speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80028	Mr. Vice President, let me tell you what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80029	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80030	I've reported for a breach of the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure give me the right to speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80031	You've called on Rules of Procedure 210, I'm telling you it's not...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80032	You've injured 223rd.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80033	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80034	You challenge the representative's right to speak on behalf of the club by referring to you taking away his word on the agenda. You are violating the Rules of Procedure because the club representative does not appear here to discuss the item of the agenda under which he was taken away from his word, nor will he talk about it, but about the reasons for which the club was called and the request for a break, and the reasons are the violations of the Rules of Procedure and not the point of the agenda... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80035	I've heard very well the reasons. Clearly, the reasons for the taken word...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80036	I'm asking you nicely please don't do this and...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80037	...take the words of Mr. Stazic. The president's tenacity is not being debated. You may request the opinion of the parent committee on the firm measure of the chairman. On behalf of the club is requested a break because I took the word to Mr. Stazić because he did not stick to the topic and for that is the request for a break from your club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80038	And now you've re-injured Rules of Procedure 223.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80039	With regard, of course, to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials of State, and I do not know how the Club Chairman could speak now on behalf of the Club unrelated to this final proposal and to my firm decision. For my firm decision, you as parliamentary representatives cannot contact and discuss the strict measure. I'm telling you once again, I'm asking you to come out for a pay phone on behalf of the club, and I'm asking you to explain the pause, that is, your opinion. ... You can't speak for the club. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please, let us maintain the dignity and dignity of this House. I gave the representative of the SDP club a word, to the distinguished representative Stazić I took my word, he has no right to speak about this subject anymore it is very clear. If you don't agree, you have the parent board and everything is fine. Thank you very much. So there's no SDP on behalf of the club. The word has a esteemed...... You, Mr. Lesar, have raised your hand without any reason to pause, I cannot give you my word. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You raised your hand, it's written here both HNS and HDZ, neither HNS nor HDZ can get a word because you didn't explain why you asked for a break. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You just raised your hand and what does that mean to me? Nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80040	That means I asked for a word you didn't give me before, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80041	No, no. That's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80042	How can I speak when you don't give a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80043	HNS club. Let me just have a minute, I'm chairing the session. The HNS club and the HDZ club who think they may have the right to speak now after this break have not, as they have raised their hand from the HDZ club, have not explained the decision. So you can't get the word because you didn't explain...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80044	Mr. Vice President, I called... For God's sake, you wouldn't let me talk. [[You don't understand.]] How could I explain the reasons for the break... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80045	That's not true. Let's move on. Dear Representative...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80046	You didn't let me explain my request for a break before. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the club, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80047	You have no explanation for...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80048	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HNS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80049	Easy! The Honorable Vice President of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80050	Mr. Vice President, we're looking for a break in accordance with Article 223a. You were obliged after a break to the president or vice president of the Club of Representatives, and I quote: "the second representative of the club, the representative, if they are not present, explain the club's position in the exhibition for no longer than 5 minutes". There are no vice presidents here at our club now, or presidents in the hall. We, as a club, have appointed a representative who represents us to explain why the Rules of Procedure was injured on our behalf after the break we were looking for. We are now asking for a recess to agree on further action in this section, and you are again in line with Article 223a, paragraph 1, 2., 3. to set a break, so give a break, not that you can, but give after the reasoning we have given regardless of whether or not you agree with our argument. Therefore, I ask you to provide us with a break that must not be made by the Rules of Procedure for less than 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80051	I'm because of that same...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80052	No, this isn't the same reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80053	I said there's no injured article 223 that you're calling for and you can ask...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80054	But you have to give us a break so we can decide what to do next.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80055	If it were up to you to decide... I know you're stronger and more experienced in the Rules of Procedure, but you know very well that you can request the opinion of the board, you know very well that you can't discuss a strict scale on behalf of the club... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80056	We're not gonna ask for the board's opinion. We, as representatives, want to make our point and inform the Parliament and the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80057	So you inform the Croatian public, but valid reasons for the break, I valid...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80058	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80059	Allow me.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80060	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80061	Righteous...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80062	Please respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80063	There's no real reason for a club break for me as president. The second thing is that you wanted an extra...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80064	Mr. Vice President, you don't have to...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80065	... todestroy the integrity of this House or me as chairman because you asked for a representative to speak on behalf of the club to whom I took the word...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80066	Mr. Vice President, you are not authorized...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80067	... and who can no longer speak on this subject or on this agenda point...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80068	... interpreting whether or not there is an invalidity...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80069	... which is tied up...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80070	...than you're obliged to formally determine...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80071	Mr. Vice President, I'm the president...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80072	... whetherwe or we're not...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80073	Until I give you my word, you can't speak. I'm the president...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80074	As you speak, so will I speak...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80075	I'm the president.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80076	...because you're constantly breaking the Rules of Procedure, and we're basically just...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80077	Mr. Vice President of the House...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80078	Respect the Rules of Procedure and we will.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80079	Parliamentary representative, Mr. Vice President of the House. You know very well that you can't even speak until the president, right now I give you my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80080	Mr. Vice President, you're violating the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80081	I, well allow you now, now I preside.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80082	You're violating my constitutional right of counsel and my club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80083	I consider...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80084	You must not do what you do, insult democracy and insult us, force us into a position of self-help.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80085	I don't think I'm insulting you, God forbid.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80086	You're insulting, Mr. Vice President...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80087	God forbid.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80088	...you are not authorized...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80089	I'm not insulting, I just think you don't have a valid reason and that's just the political reason for asking...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80090	You can't think of it. You owe us a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80091	...sessions of your club. But here, you see, you have a club session, or a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80092	Thank you very much. So you should have done it right now...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80093	Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80094	...and there wouldn't be any problem at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80095	Here, on behalf of, allow me, HNS. Actually...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80096	On behalf of the HNS Club, I'm looking for a break of 10 minutes, and that's why I've called in a word before, raising my hand to ask for a break and explaining the reasons. You didn't let me speak, but look at the phonogram, Mr. Vice President. Before you interrupted the session, you said "the HNS club in the request for a break." After that, you said we weren't looking for a break. That's the first reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80097	You didn't ask for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80098	And the second reason for the break is just to consider this situation that you have now made in the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80099	What situation? ... On behalf of the SDP club, I've been setting a break for 10 minutes. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] HNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80100	Let's go, ladies and gentlemen. A SDP break club, a break statement. On behalf of the club, club president respected representative Ivica Racan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80101	Mr. President, it's obvious that both you and I have interrupted some important obligations to appear at this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80102	I stopped preparing for lunch.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80103	I didn't think it was anything more important. Mr. President, where will we discuss openly and critically if not in the Parliament? That's a sentence I'm telling all of us, and we'd better think about it. Second. We cannot accept the discretionary assessment of the reasons allowed by the Rules of Procedure to call a break for the club. We also cannot accept the discretionary assessment of who will speak on behalf of the club for what is agreed on the break, and not what is discussed on the agenda. There is too much discretion in parliament to accept this, it is the opposition's task to disagree with such a policy by the ruling party. I knew by now that critical of some people couldn't be spoken of. I didn't know, I knew it wasn't good when it came to the Prime Minister, I didn't know you couldn't speak critically about Mr. Puss, it looks like we're extending that list. We cannot deal with this and therefore I ask the members and members of the club not to participate further in the debate on this point and in protest leave the session at this point, and I think we will have to withdraw the debate on the work of the Parliament so that we will have to decide together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80104	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80105	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm correcting the incorrect allegations of Agent Racan. It is incorrect to be unable to speak critically of anyone in this House or members of the Government, but it cannot and must not be accepted in a dictionary of insult, demeaning and not to say anything worse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80106	HNS representative club, respected representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80107	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. When the SDP club asked for a break earlier, I first raised my hand to get my word, addressed the chairman or on behalf of the Croatian People's Party club, also wanting to request a break and explain. However, the chairman interrupted the session with the founding and the HNS club. When he came back, he claimed we had no right to speak because we didn't ask for a break. We did. We were looking, but I didn't get a word to say it and explain it. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, I object to the practice of taking away the word from the MPs when they say what is difficult to hear, which ear is not nice regardless of who is chairing and which MPs or MPs are working on. If we want to make a theater out of the Parliament where only one will speak, and the other will applaud, then let's change the Rules of Procedure. This is the Parliament, not the theater, and there are no actors and viewers here and there can't be any. If someone puts themselves into actors, it's his right and I respect it rightly and I won't be angry or resentful about it. We MPs have immunity and in order to remove someone's immunity, we have an extremely complicated procedure to do so, but at the same time the chairman has the right to immunity, and he is nothing else the right of a representative's speech can deny the decision I take your word for. Then why immunity? In front of who? In front of what? And what happens tomorrow if in this atmosphere we have a debate tomorrow? Is that what we need to get ourselves some Band-Aids for tomorrow's debate? Are you asking us to come to the assembly tomorrow with the patches on our mouths? If so, I'll buy the colleagues of the Croatian People's Party Club floating stoppers to make it easier for them to participate in the debate. I want to believe that this situation will not be repeated with either, or by any invitation, and that uncomfortable throw-offs, inappropriate throw-offs and insults that the chairman never hears when on this side they go to this side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80108	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, vice president, respected representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80109	Dear Representative Lesar, it is not true that I have not given you my word. I listened to the SDP club or I don't know who spoke on behalf of the SDP requested a break... , interrupted the session. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You raised your hand, wrote to me there by HNS, HDZ and I was really while the microphones were involved said HNS and HDZ and I said after that HDZ didn't explain either and that he couldn't get the word. I really have no reason not to give you a word, and to confirm that I should give you a break, and to confirm that is your next break when you have explained it and when I have given you a break. Maybe it's my fault, but it's not my intention, and you can't say I didn't give my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80110	Dear Representative Ivan Jarnjak, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80111	Dear Mr. President, it is an incorrect assumption that a parliamentary representative in this assembly has been prevented from speaking in accordance with the Rules of Procedure that anyone who enters into this assembly a dictionary of hate, a dictionary of insult, a dictionary of intolerance should still be disabled. That's what our Rules of Procedure clearly prescribes and it has nothing to do with immunity. Nothing to do with immunity. One sentence. You were supposed to be in the last session, so see what we were getting notices about, thrown out and taking away words. A hate speech for that I'll never... And I will be all the forces against the introduction of hate speech, speech of intolerance and lies and dishonesty to speak [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that was said in his discussion. [[/Intruder: That's right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80112	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Like this! I stand entirely behind the decisions made by Vice-President Milinovic in running the session because he made those decisions strictly and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I think he should have been even more determined and stricter towards MP Stazic, who in his statement repeatedly accused, insulted and slandered the Prime Minister, the party, accusing him of both the party president and the prime minister and HDZ representatives of being criminals, that they were responsible for electoral fraud, that they committed counterfeits. And he was rightly warned by Vice President Milinovic and he is sticking to the topic and does not go into charges and press charges against HDZ MPs, party president, the government. He did not stick to it, and with the right of the Vice-President of the Parliament, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, he took away his word. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the representative cannot request a word to respond to the statement of exposure that led to the speaker’s being given a firm measure. The insistence of the SDP Representatives Club that exactly the one against whom a strict measure has been imposed after a word-resuming reminder, that it is speaking on behalf of the club after a break would mean one final act of this provision of the Rules of Procedure, so that he speaks to the one whom he cannot speak and whose word has been taken away. And in that topic he can't even speak about the subject. I, therefore, reject that the objection which the SDP Representatives Club has made is intended to discretionally determine who will be on behalf of the club to speak. Not discreetly but in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and could not speak on behalf of the club the one who received the Stazic representative, whom the club wanted to ask to speak on his behalf. In this House, why is 99% of the objection, the stagnant measures and the like apply to exactly one representative who constantly, who constantly, representative Stazic, constantly provoking HDZ representatives, insults them, demeans the president, violates the purpose of the Rules of Procedure, and throws them incessantly? It's an established practice. And we have one single problem with breaking the Rules of Procedure and playing the Rules of Procedure of Representative Stazic. As far as I can remember, in every performance he's going to tang me and drag me into some debates and some stories. Therefore, it does not stand and finally if, if the Club of Representatives of the SDP, if it did not agree with Vice-President Milinovic's decision, it has a provision in Article 209 of the Rules of Procedure to decide on the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, to take its opinion on the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. So so did his colleague, Lesar. It's not about suffocating criticism or anything. It may have been in this debate, and in this dehemental throwout, it was not heard exactly and precisely but it did not need to draw any particular conclusions because it was certainly not the intention of Vice President Milinovic to deny you the address and reporting on behalf of the club. Let's just say this is about one misunderstanding. And please, let's get on the subject because it looks like an aggravation one this SDP club did with that explanation. I mean, if it just doesn't stand, let its member discipline, let it stick to the Rules of Procedure and Order. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go. ... Did you have a replica? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yeah, that's right. Replication to representative Stazic. Here you go, Mr. Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80113	I'm sorry, there is no Mr. Stazic, I think the whole debate is if we want to protect him because he was also talking about the integrity of this House, the only real solution would be for the government to withdraw this legal proposal. Because the government spokeswoman has no place in this law. This is not in any modern country that the government spokeswoman is among the officials. And this relationship between the underestimating government not to the MPs but to Parliament has really led to absurdities and further insistence that the government spokesman has seats in this law is indeed a total underestimation of the Croatian Parliament and why do this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80114	Honorable representative of Slava Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80115	Mr. President! Perhaps you haven't noticed one gesture from SDP President Ivica Racan, who lifted my finger with his left hand and said, "I've come especially for you." I don't really know what he's alluded to, but I will remind you of the statement of one of the greatest liberal fatigues of European history by George Orwell who once said that if freedom of speech has anything to do with it, it means the right of an individual to say what the other side doesn't like to hear. In this sense, in principle, what Nenad Stazic said was within the Rules of Procedure when it comes to content. However, as far as the claims are concerned, I am referring to the thinking of our wise president who believes that he has gone a little too far in carrying out a whole series of insinuations at the head of not only the Prime Minister but at the expense of the HDZ president and that this is unacceptable in this House of Commons. So one topic that should have united us in an attempt to protect not our material status but to protect the ascension of the institution of a parliamentary representative has turned again as usual into party outwittings and the main beneficiaries of this will be people who will easily push through this law, who is indeed unacceptable. I had already said that during the golden period of self-government socialism, I was specialized in the creation of self-governmental acts, and I was a specialist in the creation of self-government agreements on rewarding according to the work done by Euard Kardelj, which was strengthened by the Law on Joint Work, which was developed through self-government agreements. The elderly will know that, younger as Jaksa Marasovic will not remember. So, what was the essence of this request? So it's not just the position that determines pay. Neither the Prime Minister's position, nor the spokesman, nor the Secretary of State of this or that or the Minister's, but there were four criteria. The first criterion is the complexity of work, how complex the work is. The other one's a liability. The third is the work effort that was divided into physical and work effort. The fourth was past work and corrective performance factor. If according to these criteria, the starting position was determined that regardless of which payment is being made, whether it has a parliamentary representative of 5,27 or has 4,38 or 6,25 that it is the starting position but to see what the law enforcement is, what kind of state administration it represents to itself, what it wants to achieve, whether it should give 0.25 additional points if someone speaks a foreign language, speaks and writes, whether it should give 0.25% if it does not telephone from a job, if it damages materials etc. I'm going to tell you a personal injury he's going to share with me, it's not big because of me and my colleague Franjo Arabovic, but because of the ladies who went with us to Vukovar. The secretary of this High House went to Vukovar with the driver and Mercedes S-class and he put us in a uncomfortable bus, and there was Carmela and we were driving there. He has a lower limit because he can't go more than 75 kilometers. And we drove there for four, five hours and drove back four, five hours. If you now see not only that, according to this new proposal, the Secretary of Parliament has the same coefficient as we do, but there are two more, means the head of the Office for General Affairs of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And our President of the Parliament has tabled an amendment that also brings the president of his office to our level, which is likely to be adopted. You know what I'm gonna tell you? It's not something that's not possible. But if anything in this High House is wrong, it's secretarial business. Our technology is like the middle council. You have to spend more power until you press that you can vote this electronically, no screens, no order, no script, no memorabilia. What's particularly difficult is our image in public is catastrophic and we can't do it individually, it's the sending of an institution. So I'm not gonna talk about this and that position. When it comes to government spokesmen, I think that, unfortunately, in modern societies, speakers are much more important than people who do serious jobs. They correct their spines, they create images, they make arrangements. The only thing that bothers me about Mr. Puss is that he smokes a lot of pathologically. I would have taken away 0.25 from him on that basis. How much will this High House give him? That's their right. What is absolutely certain is that the whole of Croatia's political elite is going to this High House. When someone is watching, this fortunately is not in direct television transmission, as this kind of fight in the Assembly arises, then that contempt is even greater in public. Therefore, I will not say my privileged position is because I am independent in every respect and thanks to the Constitutional Court I am subject to the jealousy of Jakša Marasovic. But you who are in the parties have so many stressful lives, you expect to be placed on election lists, sent to special assignments, you never know if you're going to be elected and placed in a position that you have to personally pay taxis, personal personal computers, and you don't even have a Ford M class of some sort Mercedes S class. Therefore, if we are some kind of collective who wants to do a good service to Croatian democracy, we must rise from this sink that is devastated by this High House and the institution of the parliamentary representative. My colleagues to the Racan whom he does not have, I do not think anything bad about him, indeed. However, I was talking about trying to give a hectare to the Slovenians of Croatia's holy country. There's no situation, he can threaten with two hands that will convince me that it's something honorable and I consider it treason. He can get angry and run, and come. I'll have coffee with him, I don't have any private accounts with anyone, I always try to discuss things in principle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80116	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80117	Your Honor, Mr. President, there's only one incorrect allegation that Honorable fellow Letica is bound to be an independent representative. Yes, but thanks to HSP, because you entered the Assembly on the list of HSPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80118	Second correction by Honorary Representative Ivo Loncar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80119	Well, here's my colleague Letica, speaking in her inspired speech, mentioned how this apparatus that we're voting over, how it takes a lot of trouble to put it into office. I think you unwittingly questioned the man who bought this and it wasn't bought by anyone but the man who owed Croatia in every way he said he got this machine and when it worked, it was already out of date for ten years. And let me remind you, that man was once a leader in a peasant party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80120	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Act amending and supplementing the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials of State. The amendments were submitted by the IDS representative club and representative Vladimir Seks. State Secretary. IDS agent club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80122	Mr. President, we do not accept this amendment. We don't think there's any particular reason to determine the coefficient for the head of the delegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80123	IDS agent club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80124	Mr. President and Mr. Secretary of State. The IDS Club has proposed this amendment, deeming it necessary to correct one of the illogical situations that exists in our Parliament, which is that the current heads of delegation are not ranked as, as, in the ranking of the president of the Committee. We have proposed this amendment that the heads of delegations that are the working bodies of this House be ranked with all the other presidents of all the other working bodies in the Parliament. I would ask representatives in the Croatian Parliament to support this amendment and to contribute to correcting this illogical situation. Thank you very much. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80125	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80126	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80127	It becomes an integral part of the Law. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. We can vote. The result? With 70 votes for, 3 abstentions and 16 against the proposed law together with the amendments adopted. We're going to the next point. - The final proposal of the Law on the Internal Financial Control System in the public sector is proposed by the Government. It's an emergency procedure. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate carried out by the Committees on Law, Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on European Integration. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes the Law on a system of internal financial controls in the public sector. The internal control in the public sector includes part of the principle of legal property established by the European Union as a whole system of internal financial controls for sound public funds management. This is a system that must be set up by the heads of all institutions, all state bodies with the aim of successful management and achievement of the tasks of budgetary users. Therefore, the proposal for this law was put into the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia for the accession of the European Union for 2006. Therefore, the adoption of this law is also very important in the context of the application of all internal controls and is important in the system of negotiations under Chapter 32 of financial supervision. The internal control system consists of two basic elements that need to be established and that is financial management and control and internal auditors. The Ministry of Finance is responsible for coordinating the establishment and development of the internal financial control system in one sector and for implementing the coordination, the Office for Harmonisation of Internal Audit and Financial Control at the Ministry of Finance is responsible. What is important to note is that the development of this system has been going on for several years. That it is financed under the pre-accession funds of the European Union CARDS in 2002 and 2004, and that, we can say, is one of the most successful projects that the European Union has implemented in terms of funding through pre-accession funds, which will say that the internal control and financial supervision system of Croatian institutions has been successfully established and that this law actually gives the framework. The basis of course for the establishment of internal controls so far was the Budget Law, and this law provides a framework for the functioning of internal controls. This law is therefore governed by the following: a system of internal financial controls in one sector involving financial management and control and internal audit is regulated. The methodology, standards, relations and responsibilities of the Ministry of Finance and other bodies in the implementation of the internal financial control system shall be established. Responsible persons shall be designated, in particular, the responsible person shall be the head, so that ministers, directors and other leaders of certain public bodies. The role and activities of the Internal Financial Control Council, the responsibilities of the Central Harmonisation Unit shall be determined and action taken against irregularities and fraud shall be prescribed to enable, above all, the prevention of corruption and fraud of all persons involved in the availability of public funds. As we know, the recently passed budget is worth 108 billion kuna. Such a system, this law will allow the implementation and control of these expenditures to be contained further. And of course, throughout the anti-corruption strategy, this law certainly plays a very important role and implementation of this law is very important. The law clarifies definitions and interrelations and clearly distinguishes the main elements of the internal control system. In addition, this law also requires further development of the awareness of the leaders of certain organisational parts of the public administration on the need to introduce control systems. Thus, leaders do not have a situation in this respect that, at the time of the arrival of the external audit, certain responses cannot be given to the state audit. The adoption of this law will allow for greater responsibility of the leaders for the establishment and development and implementation of the internal financial control system. Therefore, the leaders are expected to establish internal financial control in their organisation, more successful management and achievement of budget users' tasks, greater transparency and efficiency in the management and control of public incomes of income, expenditure, expenditure and asset management and liabilities. The increase in the level of confidence of taxpayers in the public administration, so taxpayers who pay taxes are sure that their money entered into the state budget has been spent on purpose and exclusively for those purposes that it has come for. And, of course, what I have already mentioned is the suppression of corruption as foreseen by the national corruption control programme between 2006 and 2008. A good establishment of internal control will reduce or fully disable corruption and bribery-related actions, assuming that the provisions of the law are fully applicable and that control activities are well established. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80130	Thank you. Financial committees, state budget, European integration. Oh, no? I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80131	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community representative club discussed the Law on the Internal Financial Control System in the public sector and supports its adoption in the proposed text. This law is in line with the acquis of the European Union in the part of the financial supervision of Chapter 32. The law regulates two basic areas: financial management and control and internal audit, which must be established for all budget users either at national or local level. In order to establish an internal financial control system, the Heads of Budget Users or persons to whom powers and responsibilities have been delegated shall be responsible. What exactly does this entire system of internal financial controls represent? This is the overall system of financial and other controls established by the leaders with the aim of successful management and achievement of the tasks of the budget users. Therefore, the Head of Budgets must establish all controls to ensure that the business takes place in a proper, ethical, economical manner and in accordance with the laws and regulations. A well-established internal financial control system ensures effective management and control of public funds. The adoption of this law will also contribute to greater transparency and efficiency in the use of public funds. The internal audit is part of the overall internal financial control system. It examines how internal controls have been established and its recommendations and advice helps leaders to improve the business of budget users. We all know the fact that 12 years ago a state audit or an external audit has been established that has been tasked with revising financial reports but its task is also to review how internal control systems and internal audits work? The internal audit under this law should improve the business of the beneficiaries of the budget, which should result in fewer irregularities which will certainly be reflected in the State audit reports. The law provides for conditions in which internal audit units can be established. It should be pointed out that given that there are a number of smaller budget users here are primarily thinking about smaller units of local and regional, regional self-government. There is a legal possibility to establish joint internal audit units on a proposal for multiple budget users or to determine the internal audit procedure with competent ministries or units of local and regional (regional) self-government. The law also provides for conditions that must be met by the internal auditor as well as the independence of internal auditors. The independence and objectivity of internal auditors is very important so that, regardless of any influence, they can do their job. The revision plan is one of the elements of independence which is also prescribed by law as well as standards and methodologies that internal auditors are obliged to adhere to. Cooperation with other bodies has also been prescribed, as well as with the State Audit Office, given that all data and all reports made up of the internal audit must be provided. The law also provides for a reporting system to which all beneficiaries of the budget on internal audits established and carried out shall report to the central harmonisation unit of the Ministry of Finance once a year. This is because the Ministry of Finance is responsible for the establishment and development, the internal financial control system, and the coordination of all of this in the Ministry of Finance is carried out by one administration, or central harmonisation unit. Its tasks are prescribed by law, and primarily concern the preparation of legal and other regulations in this area, the production of work methodology, the training of personnel to carry out these tasks, and the coordination of the establishment of this system of control at national and local level. The law provides for the establishment of a Council for Internal Financial Control in the public sector whose primary task will be the advisory role of the Minister of Finance in the development of financial management and control and internal audit. It will also discuss the annual work report. This law is important because its application applies not only to national resources but also to European Union funds. Therefore, all beneficiaries of the budget that will benefit from the European Union's resources must have in place controls and internal audits prescribed by law. The law also provides for procedures for the detection of fraud and irregularities, as well as for the notification of the same competent institutions. Finally, the application of this law will improve the management of public funds, a more transparent relationship with these funds will be established, and, of course, the exclusive responsibility in all of this is the responsibility of the leader whose primary task is to establish a system of internal financial control and improve the management of their institutions, in their institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80132	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, the Honorable Vice-President of Dom Mato Arlovic. He's not in the hall. He's losing his right to debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80133	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Now, at first, let me say that the HNS Club will in any case support the adoption of this law, because everything that is on the trail of the fight against corruption in any case we are willing to support and not only support, but also engage in all this. I know it's funny to you, colleague Djakic, and you wonder how HNS will support something that HDZ has suggested. But this isn't about your proposal, Lesar. This is a very good proposal, because if we know that total consumption in Croatia is somewhere in fact total budgets that in Croatia are around 130 billion, and if out of these 130 billion kunas about 45 billion go to any investment at local levels, either at the state level or if the International Monetary Fund counts that between 8 billion and 12 billion are actually not stolen, that between 8 and 12 billion disappears. It disappears in the first row because we don't know some things to do anyway, so we get all kinds of tails from lawyers, courts, and I don't know what else we don't, where we pay all kinds of penals, interest and debt. So there's a contract setup, and I end up thinking that the least part of it is stealing or what's so-called. 10%. The fact is that there is and is, in any case, represented at all levels and any control of these funds coming into the budgets from units of local self-government across the region to the state is necessary in any case. So far, I have to point out that the State Audit has done a lot in setting up these budgets, because we know that our local leaders, and even the regional leaders of the state's creation, didn't know enough to even make budgets, and we don't spend our resources the way we should, and we know how much effort has been made through other laws to get some kind of control done. And this is an extra step to make it, what you said to eradicate corruption. Corruption is impossible to eradicate and there is no state in a world where corruption is not available. However, corruption should be brought down to an acceptable level and the HNS Club will support this in any case because it is one step towards bringing corruption down to an acceptable level.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80134	Thank you. State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80135	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, first of all, I would like to thank you for this brief but concrete debate and, in any case, it is important to support this law primarily because this law represents and this is indeed the introduction of additional order and control in the spending of taxpayers' funds. In any case, regardless of the proposal of the Committee on Legislatives, the Government remains in emergency proceedings and the Government accepts the proposed amendment to this draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80136	Thank you. Coming through, I'm actually concluding a debate on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80137	Final proposal of the Law on the Internal Financial Control System in the public sector. The amendment submitted by MP Nevenka Majdenic accepted the proposal. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 83 for, 6 abstentions, 2 against accepted proposed law along with the accepted amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80138	I'm moving on to the next one. - Final proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the State of Israel on the avoidance of double taxation and preventing the avoidance of income tax and property tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 606 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the emergency procedure. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Okay. The committee's reporters? I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80139	Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of contracts between the Republic of Croatia and the State of Israel on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income and property tax avoidance. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? Unanimously with 92 votes in favour of the final bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80140	We move to the next item of the agenda - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Property and other real rights, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 605 The proposed law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the emergency procedure. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System and the Committee on Justice. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? State Secretary Snježana Bagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. The transformation of our system began in the '90s, and it started with a ownership conversion, i.e. The transition from the social ownership system to the system where we have known owners and where once again after a long period into our system the principle of non-violence of ownership rights, i.e. started with the '90s system. the years when social property was abolished. This was to be answered in the first place by the Law on Property and other real rights under the Law on Land Books, which entered into force on 1 January '97. A year. He certainly strengthens and elaborates everything that makes the right of ownership. However, for a long period of nearly 10 years, I dare say, with all the most important provisions of this law, those of its empty provisions that should allow our system to pass from social property to a system with known owners. This is not an easy task nor a brief procedure because for almost 50 years it has ruled a completely different situation, a social property system where the right of ownership has been completely neglected and where almost no one has ever taken care to exercise his rights, his right of ownership, or any other related right in land books. This certainly resulted in the fact that the data, the actual data with the land-booked were completely, almost completely out of sync on one side. And on the other hand, the data between the catasters and the land books. That's why it's... the final provisions of this law have introduced a provision of importance due to Article 378(5), which postpones the application of the principle of trust in the truthfulness and completeness of land books. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thus, by 1 January 2007, by assessing that this period will be long enough for real holders, real land-book holders, we call them off-book holders of land-book rights to enroll their rights, so those rights that have not been entered or requested to delete invalid entries. From the entry into force of the Law of Property to this day, much has been done. A series of laws have been passed to convert part of social property. I'll just mention some of the Laws on Agricultural Land, the Law on the Forests. The conversion was carried out and some others after the laws as well as the conversion of social capital. Since then, a lot has also been done to settle the land and book situation. The deficit has been reduced by more than 50%. Data from land books and catastras have been harmonised in many ways. We're creating an EOP land book. However, it is still estimated that this delay of trust, the principles of truthfulness and full land books should be maintained. So allow real rightholders and additional deadlines to be entered and that they can also point out their rights to fair third parties. And that's what matters. Of course, this delay actually seems to be in some way stronger still the right of the real rightholder, the off-book holder of the right and the honest third acquirer. This proposal therefore proposes to extend this deadline until 1 January 2010. However, since it is indeed in certain areas between cadastrian municipalities and land books, the situation corresponds to the real situation, it is proposed that this delay does not apply to those situations where the situation is fully harmonised and where we have an EOP land book, i.e. to form a land data base under the Law on Land Books. This law also proposes another relatively small in the legal sense, but it seems to me to be an important change, which is that when improvements are made, i.e. real estate changes in order to enable persons with special needs, people with less mobility to approach these buildings that do not require the consent of all co-owners. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, this is what is proposed by these amendments to the Law on Property and other real rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80142	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, distinguished representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80143	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the text of the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Property and other real rights. The issue of ownership is also regulated in Article 48 of our Constitution as a fundamental and basic document of a state in which it is said that our Constitution guarantees the right of ownership. So whenever we have on our benches any changes to the Law of Property and other real rights, they cause our great interest. These changes that are now on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament can indeed be said that we have 4 articles of this law and are not any structural changes that introduce some important and some major changes. The State Secretary has already said in Articles 1 and 2 of this Act that we regulate in one more quality, one good way relations between co-owners in real estate in such a way that, if certain changes occur in certain buildings, all co-owners do not need to agree on a improvement that ensures a smooth approach, movement and work for persons to reduce mobility on common parts and devices of real estate. As small and small as we think it is, the improvement of the law. But be assured that it will mean a lot to all those who actually have problems with movements, all people with disabilities, older people, people with certain health problems. And that's why every commendation to both the government and the ministry goes with the bill. This second amendment relating to the extension of this deadline, so the deadline was until 1 January 2007, now on the proposal of this Act, which is explained by the deadline, is extended until 1 January 2010. That's not so popular. That whenever the government extends any deadline is not a particularly popular measure. However, we must remember little about what our land books are like. We need to remember a little bit what the situation is in our land books and see what a huge job it is to get those land books in order and to get those books settled. When we look at what's been done in these three years, it's done a lot. According to the data, we've had about 360 thousand outstanding cases in land-book procedures. Today is if I'm not mistaken for 160 grand. So in these three years, we've cleaned up, we've solved 200 thousand backlogs. In orderly and in time, the new inflow of objects that have been coming all this time has been resolved. What has been done to the existing land books in a large percentage, not all of them, but in a large percentage are prescribed to computers, they are introduced into computers and now what is coming, there is one process to check it, one process to clean it, and it is indeed one long-term process, because all these data must be one more professional people and experts have to check them to ensure that this situation is correct and that this situation would be okay. What if you remember what we did as a significant change in land-book things, it's an amendment to the land-book law where we gave power to land-book referents to solve land-book items. We sit as it used to be. Someone filed a request for entry into the land books. That request would have been processed by the referent. After the referent had processed it, a complete case would have gone to the judge, there would have been a time, only after that would the solution have gone. It's a lot faster today. Today, the referent has the authority to resolve this matter himself and only comes to the judge if someone writes a complaint or feels that there has been a certain injury. This has helped us greatly to speed up the process in that segment. But this second part of harmonising the land-book state, meaning that data we have in the garter, and the garter is a public book in which the property is entered, that this substrate corresponds to what is in the catastrus, because the catastrus is another type of book, it keeps records of the property and it is faster, it is more up-to-date, and you in the catastro you have today data on the parcels as they are, how they are both squares and per property, and in the garter we all know and what our people's habits were, were passed on, they were sold real estate, no one went to enroll in the garland. It was important to have a contract, that it was owned by real estate, but it didn't matter to him to put it in the land books that he became the owner, did it? We do, people were dying, and behind them were real estate, heirs didn't transfer them to their property. So we really have a big mess where it's not just the state that's responsible, but it means the citizens themselves, and now it's a big problem that we have to clean up. I think we're on a good track and what we have a social property problem, it's clearly a big problem, and that's why this deadline has to be extended, because social property takes a little longer time for the state to identify at all, and to determine that difference between catastrophe and grantovna, not only the difference, but in the grant's some water parcels as oracies or as meadows, and they're now according to the changed plans they have the construction or some other land status. So there's a big road and there's a big job ahead of us. A lot's been done, we've been walking in which way we're going to move on. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports the bill, fully understands the reasons why it is required to extend this deadline and recognises the Government of the Republic of Croatia for everything it has done so far in this segment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80144	On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Mato Arlovic, vice president of the House. ... You're the one who called for an individual hearing? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] He's losing his right to debate. He's not in the hall. On behalf of the club HSP, the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80145	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. The Croatian Party Club of Rights will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property and Other Real Rights, and there are exactly why these deadlines should be extended. But we're not satisfied with the fact that 15 years ago, the state's authorities have been in charge, and I mean first of all, at the time, the attorney general didn't do his job. Namely, I'll tell you exactly what the situation is, let's just take an example of what's so-called. Former assets and properties, so-called JNA and SNO. In the first 91st year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia accurately established a list of all these properties and specifically stated and obliged the Ombudsman to carry out the book of the Republic of Croatia on that property. And today we're witnessing that it wasn't done until the end, then there was this variant of transformation that there was no more defense as such, it went to the State's Attorney's office. Another large number of such cases relate to the Law on Forests and the Law on Agricultural Land. There is also a very bad situation due to the fact that many cities and municipalities have been able to illegally sign up as owners of forest land, either on forests, or on agricultural land, and it has gone so far as to say in the Istria area that I have repeatedly said, that part along the Adriatic Sea, they signed up for forest land and agricultural land, then they then gave their likeers at low prices and then made a change in the spatial plan and teams that they got for the bagatel they were owners and they gained a huge profit. And a large number of such cases, I was at home at the State Inspectorate then we determined the facts and asked the State's Attorney's office to return that part to state property. That was the same situation, for example, when so-called bans were banned. JNA and SSNO that they could dispose of real estate, that was the first measure, then the situation happened that some of these former military institutions were founded as a social enterprise at that time and they succeeded in real estate and which meant state property because they were previously on the use of the former JNA military facility, they managed to enlist on themselves. And now it would be really good if you had all this information, and that data exists in both the government and the Ministry of Defence and the State's Attorney's office, to see where the state came from. Because if this is how it continues to work and this year 2010, it won't solve much on this field, because it's obvious that there's not enough to take care of state property. We know for ourselves that the government's office, now it was central before the Real estate office, he had an obligation to make that list. I don't think that list of properties owned by the Republic of Croatia has been made up to this day. So there are big problems, and so we're looking for one responsible act of all the authorities to bring this job to an end. So it's been 15 years, and now it's the end of 2006, so if this is how it's done so so far, we're clearly doubting that it's going to work within three years, and it's mostly a problem that now there are legal disputes about this part of what I've been saying about agricultural land and forest land where houses, villas, villas are already built along the Adriatic coast. And how come now, that part is solved? So that's where we're looking for really one responsible behavior for all the authorities. And now, so we support these changes and additions with these proposals and warnings. And I especially like this article. Last week was the International Day of Persons with Disabilities and in the City Assembly was a reception about associations and one association said what the problem was, say, in Zagreb in the Sava road, that they can't get an elevator because the manager of buildings and tenants in that building, imagine how incompetence it is, they forbid that this association can even build an elevator in the building. So it is obvious that you have responded in time and time, and this provision of Article 1 will really enable all these situations, so association and persons with disabilities can come into the buildings. Namely, it is about the rooms that the City of Zagreb gave to the association, and many of them cannot come because there is no elevator, because it is on the fourth floor. And I say, a representative of the tenants and co-owners insolent. So, here's the deal. So, we support this bill by proposing to the government to actually make a full report and deliver here what the situation is, as far as we're concerned, that the state enlists in all the properties that it owns. So, according to all these regulations of the Law on Forests, the Law on Agricultural Land, the Water Law, and I'm not talking about marine good. It's mostly that we're not talking about this part, and it's the same situation that's different that both municipalities and cities have managed to register, not to talk about the situation, the situation in the cataster in that area. So there's a lot to work with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80146	Thank you. On behalf of the club, not on behalf of the club, an individual debate. Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80147	Dear Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. It is also this bill that confirms how dynamic legislation we have, how hard the Croatian government is really trying, that it shows particular concern for those who, in this case, have reduced mobility. And no matter what they do on property, it's uncut, we'd say even holy. They are allowed in these changes to indeed persons with less fixed speed and efficiency to achieve what is allowed for them in an uninterrupted approach. I would also point out that the second amendment is also in favor of such a request and is appropriate for the time in which we live. I would also point out that it is precisely a good policy and a Croatian Government programme to provide electronic transparency because without it we cannot think about any economic activity. Hence, further efforts need to be made to make sure that we can and must think in this direction. Therefore, it is also necessary that this exception be trusted in land books, as this amendment also takes into account the real estates of the Catastrian municipalities for which the land book is opened on real estates that have been introduced into the land book base under the last provisions of the Law on Land Books. This is a very practical solution that citizens feel on a daily basis that the pressure on the click can indeed get everything they are interested in to bring the catastrian and land-book situation into line as soon as possible, so that they can ask for those properties. And if it's a building plot, it's a location and construction permit. This is how time and efficiency are really spared, just like this, the proposed change. Also, as regards social property, this extended period until 1 January 2010, is very important in each segment, especially when it concerns maritime goods and what is state property should really in any case know what we have, how much we have, protect it maximumly and in this way often and timely changes and additions to the Law on Property and other real rights protect what is very important to us and what is given to us economically. That's exactly the maritime good and everything in connection with these bill proposals. Therefore, this Law should be adopted and applied live as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80148	Thank you. The word has a esteemed representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80149	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. As Bosnjakovic said, we understand why the law is being passed, but behind that understanding must only be regret. Why? Because the fact that the deadline for establishing trust in land books is renewed shows that the real reform has not yet been implemented and shows concern for all these years. I would really not want to put my finger on anyone, but it shows concern for state property and what my colleague Kovacevic was saying is really true. After all these years, it is truly unacceptable for my taste that the property of the Republic of Croatia is not listed, arranged and entered in the land books. It also seems unusual that the law mentions an electronic book that does not actually exist. Namely, what we have isn't that. It's commendable that we have on the Internet books and I think the former minister should thank her for the popularity of land books and their validity and what was done on computerization, I would say, land books. But that's not enough. It's not enough because unfortunately it happened to us that we simply copied those data from land books into the computer, and that is, apart from technical, technical improvements in data access, which is of course not irrelevant, that we did not do what is expected, and that the land-book situation is consistent with what we call all the common real conditions. It is true that over a long period of time that I would say we measure and for decades individuals have ignored caring for their property. So, enrolment in land books for various reasons one of which was over a long time unreasonablely high traffic, sales tax real estate so that people do not pay taxes, simply leave... But those times have passed, and I think one of the most important tasks of the government of this and the future would have to be to raise awareness in the public that exactly trust in land books is something which is the basis of modern not only ownership but also business in general. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We already have more and more examples now that foreign investors with no confidence enter their investments precisely because they are not sure that what the books say really corresponds to reality and that tomorrow no one will come to tell them that what they bought may not be theirs anymore. So here I understand why the law has been prepared, why it is passed, but I repeat once again that it is actually the result of a long-standing lack of care about state property and I appeal if it is possible to consider that this principle of trust in land books is introduced as soon as possible and before the deadlines that may be prescribed by this law because knowingly and continuously delaying the application of the principle of trust in land books is actually a serious blow to the Croatian economy that should be removed as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80150	Thank you. Finally, State Secretary Snježana Bagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since the Law has received support, there may be no need for a final review, however, I would like to say that, with thanks for supporting this Law, I share actually regrets why we are still forced to propose a postponement of this principle. In fact, it does not diminish the fact that a lot of things have been done and that reform is ongoing, but the fact is that no matter how much we've done it, we're not at the end of this time, and it says that as much of the system's institutions at this point I think about the state, courts and catastra, as much of it as there should be and there's a feedback. All those who are owners and who are to be enrolled should indeed do so. We've copied data that's not the data that's consistent, but it's data. We did this because after verification we would do so to the Internet by encouraging the principles of transparency, with a warning that if this owner is considered the owner, I will use that expression outside the book owner did not apply for registration then there will be no house, there will still be meadows listed and then there really is no room for wonder. That's what I wanted to point out because right now the campaign is under way, and the citizens say and recognize it, they say, "He told us to come and sign in."but all of what we've done so far means a lot and shows that statistics figures. In these 10, 11 months, we only have last year's number of entries, ownership rights, and some say the mortgage increases by about 40%. It shows that consciousness, the level of awareness of citizens is increasing, that recognition of what property is, that certainly requires us to speed up with these reforms, they are now made assumptions that they are speeding up and we are going to what they are, it is the same land book that exists in the Law on Land Books of '97. the year to have the start of the arrangement with half of 2007. That is why we propose that where data are indeed harmonised and where the real situation with the land-book is harmonised, this principle is agreed as soon as possible in such situations, i.e. in such land-booked courts and determines, that is to say, so that we can gradually, in fact, achieve this principle before this deadline is proposed. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80152	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80153	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on ownership and other real rights. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please vote. The result? With 85 for, 2 abstentions and 6 against the proposed Final Proposal of the Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80154	We move to the next item of the agenda - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 604 The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the emergency procedure. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings of the Law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Communications. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? State Secretary, please, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80155	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The maritime well-being is generally of interest to the Republic of Croatia, has its special protection, and is used or used under conditions and as prescribed by the Law. It is the Law on maritime good and seaports that was adopted in September 2003 that determines what makes maritime good. According to that Law, maritime good is done by internal seawater and the territorial sea, their bottom and underground, and by its nature by means of a land intended for general use or declared as such, as well as anything which is permanently connected on or below the surface with that part of the land. It is already the legal definition of maritime goods itself that it is the most valuable space of the Republic of Croatia and is the driver of all economic development. Clearly, if this maritime good is used or used in accordance with the law, and I would say according to the relevant spatial-planned documentation. But we are witnessing that in recent and further history there has been unauthorized use of maritime goods as there has been unlawful construction, dipping from citizens of natural and legal persons to units of local self - government. It is clear that all this has led to legal uncertainty in the use of maritime goods, which has been further complicated by often unarranged legal regulations, then unequal judicial practices, and certainly individual solutions in the process of transforming former state-owned enterprises in which the procedures of many legal persons have been recognised property on the maritime good. The existing law, i.e. legal solutions, did not respond to enough quality in the protection of maritime goods on the one hand, and on the other hand did not provide a model to address the rights acquired on maritime goods during that period that I was just talking about. For this reason, for reasons of indeterminateness of the existing Law, the need for an overall system of resolution and consideration of matters related to the use of maritime goods and seaports was imposed. To this end, we have established an expert working group in the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development with the purpose of reviewing all provisions of existing laws and considering possible solutions. However, given the need to identify and address certain needs that are already emerging, and they have certainly come from the adoption of the law itself, we therefore propose that the urgent procedure establish and bring about changes as provided for in these legal decisions. It is, therefore, primarily through this Act that it wants to move towards change, i.e. to determine the demarcation and determinations of port subfrastructure and port equipment. So far, legal solutions have defined port equipment as part of the maritime good, which has largely limited and reduced the investment on the maritime good. And so we suggested that this part of the port equipment should be separated from the marine goods, and this is by means of a legal solution and envisaged. The proposed solution legally and clearly regulates the status of infrastructure and substructure buildings and their separation from port equipment that remains owned by the operator or the concession authority at each port. Furthermore, the second major amendment we propose to this legal solution is, therefore, to the precise provision of port activities in certain ports open to public traffic so as not to give rise to a situation where a single concessionaire charges a port fee only for the reason that this type of activity is prescribed by law as basic port activity. The amendment or proposed amendment to this law precisely specifies how and in what way it is possible to charge for certain port activities provided in ports open to public transport. Furthermore, with this amendment of the law, it is also proposed to cover the port area of ports opened for the public transport of local and county importance and the purpose of certain parts of those ports. In Article 20, I apologize to the 10th of this Act, amending and supplementing the Law on maritime goods at sea ports, it is defined that the port area of port open to public transport of county and local importance covers the area intended to carry out liner maritime transport, a communal link involving the berth of a water facility whose owner is resident in a unit of local self-government or a water facility is largely located in that area and is registered in the Register of ships of the competent port captainship or of the vessel of the competent port captain or of the outpost and a nautical bond for nautical vessels, fishing berths and berths. What I would particularly like to point out in this article is the obligation to provide, in a particular port open to public transport of local or county importance, a certain number of reception berths, the berth of fishing vessels, and in this way they could significantly compensate for the need of fishermen, which is that practically along the Adriatic coast they do not have a particularly secure place for the berth of their fishing vessels. It is also clear that the implementation of this law and once the minister adopts a sublegal act which will be more precise, which will define more precisely the places and size of a specific port open to public transport, whether local or county importance can then be provided for that bulky, unloading place for a particular fisherman who sails by boat to such ports which will therefore have a secure link. Furthermore, it is also very important for the prominent and what is resolved by this Law on maritime good and seaports, or amending the existing law, is the fact that it is now clearly possible for priority concessionaries in public transport open ports to invest in ports during the period of priority concessions, where they also have the concessions that they can now, in accordance with the prescribed procedure, in the light of the level of such investments, extend the concessions and clearly in accordance with the time needed to demortise the funds or investment they have invested in a particular port in which concessions are authorised. Therefore, this amendment of the law also allows concession authorities with a priority concession to extend their priority concession to a certain number of years which justify the amount of investments they have invested in a particular port. We also want to do so with this law, and this was also the initiative of the promoters to make it easier and easier through the amendments to this law to the concessionaries, in the ports of national importance in which individual concessionaries and have a priority concession to get into the purchase of port substructures, in order to be able to respond to large projects that are currently carried out in almost all ports of national importance in the Republic of Croatia, therefore, from Rijeka, Zadar, Sibenik, Split, Ploč and Dubrovnik. And so that all those investments that the Republic of Croatia invests in port infrastructure can be justified in a way that, in these infrastructure facilities that are primarily clearly represented by any passenger, whether the cargo terminals, container terminals or container terminals so that they can secure the funds clearly, enter this one investment phase and in a quality way respond to investments that are currently financed from the state budget and through loans from international financial institutions. In this regard, we also went with the proposal to adopt this amendment of the law by emergency procedure, so that we could properly respond to contracts concluded with international financial institutions and therefore enable concessionaries to make it easier for them to provide adequate financial resources for the construction of any port substructure on the one hand or for the purchase of port equipment which will now be practically owned by this law. As it is, therefore, through the work of the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee they give certain amendments that are practically represented, the nomotechnically arranged statement of the law itself is here, in its opening part, therefore, I would like to say that these amendments to the Committee on Law and we accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80156	Thank you! Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? ... Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications, Honored Representative Alenka Kosića Cicin-Shain. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80157	Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! On 14 December, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 604. The Committee accepted the proposal to pass the law by emergency procedure. The opening statement was given by a representative of the applicant who pointed out that in the application of the Law on maritime good and seaports certain irregularities proposed by this law were observed in part. The proposed solutions accurately define port infrastructure, substructure and port equipment. The definition of port activity in ports open to public transport is defined and the arrangements include ports open to public transport of county and local importance as well as the authority to adopt criteria for the establishment of several port administrations in the area of one county, which would allow faster and more successful economic growth, the development of the Republic of Croatia. The debate gave the opinion that county administrations should provide certain services, such as waste supply, electricity and water supply, and that the issue of municipal compensation and monumental rent should be properly addressed in a differentiated manner. It has been pointed out that the proposed amendments and amendments to the law are a significant step forward, but the opinion is that the applicant should also approach the full amendment of this law. After the debate was held, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80158	Thank you. Before we move to a club debate, one notice, that the vote is planned not in 18 hours but in 16 hours. On behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80159	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. and Madam of the Ministry! I want to say a few words on behalf of the SDP club on this bill of law that is before us today. The sea is good for us in the Republic of Croatia, and certainly the coast and islands in the part that are functionally connected to the sea. Maritime well-being has always been defined as good in general use, which means it is a particularly valuable resource under particularly constitutional and legal protection. This is good in Croatia as an extremely maritime country in the centuries-old and legal tradition is generally well based on the principle that it is out of legal traffic, on the principle of unity of land and substructure built according to the principle of banning the acquisition of ownership rights and other real rights on real estate in the maritime goods regime. After World War II, maritime goods were well regulated through legal rules and the first full regulation was the Law on Maritime and Water Goods, Ports and Ports of '74. the year that defined maritime well as a general good in social property. Since then, legal confusion has started on this matter, which has not been improved by the Maritime Code since '94. A year. In the past period since the independence of the Republic of Croatia, the legal arrangement of maritime goods has had two key milestones, the abolition of social property and the launch of an unfortunate model of conversion and privatisation. All regulations, Naval Code of '94. and the current law whose amendments today are in front of us does not mention any legal effects of abolishing the social property regime. The only regulation that does this but not enough is the '95 Marine Ports Act. A year. Obsolescence has in practice caused a number of property-legal conflicts in legal protection but also at the disposal of real estate on the maritime good. This is inappropriate because right on the beach are the most attractive and valuable properties. In the conversion of social enterprises, land and buildings are not evaluated in the value of social capital. However, the Croatian Privatisation Fund assessed the value of capital investment in buildings and raised new doubts as to whether companies have some right of compulsory legal nature on the basis of investments and if they have what they are. The issue of maritime goods catastra is a particular issue, and most of the properties on the coast that are truly maritime well are not as such marked in the catastra or in land books. There is today a registration of the right to ownership of physical or residual other enrolments. The maritime code also contained incomplete and unclear provisions on the rights of maritime goods but stipulated that it was banned from maritime good by the acquisition of rights of ownership and other real rights on maritime goods and that the facilities were considered to be belonging to maritime goods. After the concession is terminated and the possibility of entering from the mortgage on maritime goods facilities is allowed. The Law on maritime good and seaports, adopted by the coalition government in September 2003, defines that marine good is done by internal seawaters and territorial seas, their bottom and the underworld, and the part of land which is intended for general use by nature or is declared as being permanently connected on or below the surface with that part of land, and then defines the seashore as a belt at least 6 metres wide from the line that is horizontally far from the middle, higher, high waters. Of course, during the application of this 2003 law and the newly created relations have affected the need to bring some novels into the existing regulation, i.e. in the existing code. And there is no single regulation in the countries of the European Union that treats maritime well-being and the concept of seaports. In the Mediterranean pool, however, the status of public goods remained almost as a rule. There's something different about Italy. On behalf of the SDP club, too, I argue that the principle of good in the general use of which property cannot be acquired but should be given in a concession and should be supported in the longer term, and this is not about any political law, I would not even allow myself under the profession, presupposing that I am aware of the problem of not accepting, for any reason, the proposal that is before us today at the debate. And the SDP club will vote for these amendments that are proposed, with changes not being complete and therefore I will look back at a few details. Namely, the proposed changes ahead of us today in the second reading that Mr. Bacic's State Secretary also spoke of are intended to be achieved among the minor changes that are both cosmetic or such nature that have no significant importance but want to achieve three key objectives and these three key objectives and the SDP club supports. And that's the first extension of the original concession. Before some times after World War II, Luke was mainly built by workers. In the process of converting former social port companies, the primary concession was awarded within 12 years. Meanwhile, there has been a higher investment in infrastructure and anti-structure, and the justification for the extension of the concession is based on investments and, in our view, justifiable. With the existing provisions of the law, the port equipment primarily lifts the explicits were defined as a maritime good. The amendment of the law provides that existing cranes that existed before the law was passed and remain a member of the maritime goods but that new cranes and equipment that are mobile means do not need or would be logical to be like a moving thing because this provision allows for the modernisation of the facility which is of course welcome. In the county ports of public transport, especially what Mr. Bačić was talking about could be trafficked and tied up and so on and carried out by only ships of public transport, not for example yachts, fishermen and so on and boats of the host population, so during the winter you had a situation that there was no waterfront or seagull, but could not be tied to a boat that was not in public traffic. These illogicalities, especially after the distribution of revenue as foreseen between the unit of local, regional and state authorities, I think it is a newspaper that should certainly be welcomed. In this regard, it is good for me to extend the jurisdiction of port administrations to a number of berths and to arrange, to introduce tariffs for yachts and boats but also to propose that the proposal in Article 12 amending Article 78 finds a solution to the obligation to provide waste reception services, and, if not in the law, in the implementing act or regulation, because the obligation to collect waste must be introduced even if it is not profitable if we wish to prevent our sea from further devastation. And in the end, I want to say something that is not in this law, which is a communal fee. The municipalities and cities charge a municipal fee for the port space which is in the State's authority, maritime well-being and general good and for services which are not provided within the port. In the port area of concessions, port administrations are issued and municipal services are subsequently charged to concessionaries. The income of municipal services is achieved on the maritime good and does not return to the maritime well. It reminds me of the SIZ for the local roads from the former state when the compensation for maritime goods was poured into this road SIZ so the roads, cemeteries and I don't know what the principle is that where it was achieved, it was returned to the maritime well. Here on the Committee there have been several different opinions, I also respect the position of the Chairman of the Committee of Ms. Alenka Kosina Chichin-Shain that it should be differentiated to access this problem but in any case, the ports which exclusively serve port traffic, not touristic and so on, to free themselves from the payment of municipal fees because units of local and regional self-government and anyone else does not invest in these facilities are already exclusively made by port installations, and when it comes to the monumental rents and ports of passengers in which passenger ships agree primarily to use the city's infrastructure is a topic special to themselves, but this problem definitely suggests that the promoter consider all changes to the law and that those parts of the port are free, paying communal fees where there really is no justification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80160	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Mato Arlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80161	Vice-President, honourable colleagues and colleagues, of course, need to be amended and complemented by the Law on Maritime Good and Marine Ports, however, the question arises whether, by its content, scope and reach, this proposed amendment is actually sufficient or even better to meet the needs of both our economic and political, and also the legal system. Why like this? See, for example, if you take an article new 2 which offers, among other things, that no concession can be given to a natural or legal person who used an economic benefit without a legal basis or caused damage to the maritime good unless he previously pays compensation for damages due to acquisitions without the basis that the amount of compensation for damages cannot be less than the concession fee that would be payable by the concession authority on the maritime good, the beneficiary on the basis of a valid legal basis. Therefore, if damage is paid for the acquisition of a baseless base and, of course, which cannot be less than the concession fee, then a concession can be obtained. Now I ask the question to what extent is this part of the construction law in line with the other part of the law that needs to be broken down? ... finds in the maritime good in an illegal way is used, works and so on and instead of collapsing, that we are sorting out that other law in this way, and we are really asking ourselves the question to what extent? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, if we want to legalise something through giving concessions on maritime goods and through the achievement of the Institute of Construction Rights, then it should be brought into line with the ruling legal system and at least it cannot be done to agree between the two ministries. That would have to be settled by the Parliament. The second question that should be resolved and the question is, among other things, in Article 1, where it is said that Article 2, point 8, behind the word, in the brackets of the tank and similar instead of the decimal point is placed, and the words "the other capital crossing objects, the constant fixing of the crane" and so on are deleted. Now I'm asking a question, actually, what is it? Dear colleagues, this is about new nationalisation, because the current provision that introduces these other capital crossing facilities is being introduced into port upgrades and should be managed by ports, and we are now predicting a new Article 18 which needs to be amended and complemented by Article 118, logically through the new Article 118a, which reads: "All port cranes that are permanently fixed in the port area, in ports opened for public transport, or in ports of special purpose since the entry of the new... You see, if we are now suddenly transferring from one ownership sphere from the port administrations to another ownership sphere, then the question is actually, and to what extent do we port administrations deprive and put in a more unfavourable position than... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] so far. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And thirdly, what I'm very interested in and which, I don't know, will be the particular benefit of the states to get what they're going to declare to be state property and to rent additionally in the concession. I don't see any particular benefits here if you want to further prescribe the conditions and criteria to protect the maritime well-being, to make... This should then be regulated by this regulation which, otherwise, regulates the obligation of port administrations, which is related to Article 9 where a new paragraph 6 is introduced, which reads that "the port administration can exceptionally require the authorising officer with the prior consent of the Government" and so on whether "to grant concessions for up to 50 years". [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, in any variant, the Government may give consent and the question of compensation for the use of fixed cranes and can therefore continue to be settled by amending the rules on decision-making and fixing concession fees. Of course, there is also a new item here that says that by transferring the management to all cranes in the port area open to public transport, the competent port administration that gives them to use the concession authority according to the conditions and from the concession contract. Now the question is very interesting what that actually means. So on the one hand, we're excluding that they're no longer the port administration's position. On the other hand, it becomes a state. On the third hand, the State shall immediately transfer this to port management ports open to public transport and at the same time they should grant it to the concession authority under the conditions laid down in the concession agreement. Now it's just interesting until the end. The existing companies established in port administrations, which have those entities, etc. Now the question is how they got and how they got. Some may not have been managed by the concession. Then what is it? How the damages question will be resolved, etc. etc. Because this is either a restriction or it can be a restriction on certain entrepreneurship rights and freedoms. The third thing I would like to note is the question of Article 37a. where it is said: “The Republic of Croatia is authorized as the holder of the government to take all the actions to protect maritime goods and to file claims for determination. ” You know, this is not just the holder of the public legal authority of the Republic of Croatia. Here it appears and in the function of entrepreneurial activities, economic activities and cannot always occur in such relations with the aspect of the government. It can, from the point of view of the authorities, take certain actions, of course, in accordance with the law or amend the law. But if it appears as an economic operator relating to the maritime well-being and puts it in a concession against another economic operator. He has to run some other accounts of interest here, and he can't act as a government. If it comes to power, then it's a different question because then it can decide I'm going to give this one, I'm not going to give this one, and I'm going to have to respect the principle of equal standing for everyone before the law and in such a situation in proportion to who gives a better offer to him. Therefore, that part should be corrected by me. Of course, it is quite an interesting new amendment to Article 75, which adds a new paragraph 5, which reads: “The Minister will adopt a regulation that will set out the criteria for the establishment of several port administrations. ” Now, look, I'm not sure, but I have to say that part because I haven't been able to finish it since we're very little time in the possession of this law. How this will reflect on the constitutional position of units of local and regional self-government. In this regard, Article 75(1) states: “For the sake of the management, construction and use of public transport ports that are of county and local importance for each county, several port administrations may be established at the request of a municipal or city council in which applicants and co-founders are required. It is now suddenly proposed to pass a regulation that will actually regulate the rights of co-founders of local and regional self-government units. It's quite interesting when it comes to the Constitution. The constitution in this respect has a slightly different view which I am not sure to the end here whether it is respected. The Constitution says in Article 116, the structure and operations of the state administration and the way they are carried out are governed by law. By decision of a certain public administration business, the bodies of the units and local and regional regional self-government and legal persons with public authority may be transposed by law. So, they can be passed by law. How can the law on the one hand give powers to co-founders, on the other hand saying that a special regulation by the minister will actually prescribe how these rights will be exercised. No, it would be hard to go against constitutional norms. This had to be if there was another or two items of this article that would be told exactly how the law dealt with it and by law prescribed it. That's an additional observation. And another observation that I'm not fully analyzed is the whole law related to Article 20. It is said: “The minister is empowered to adopt the following regulations within 12 months of the date of entry of this law” or the following regulation, although more so. On the criteria and technical and technological conditions for the performance of activities as well as the criteria for the fixing of port tariffs in ports opened for public transport referred to in Article 7(4) of this Act. And then the fourth paragraph of this law is written in a capital letter. Of course, when you look at it, then you will see very clearly that the minister will adopt an act that sets out the criteria. Therefore, among other things, the maximum amount for the determination of port tariffs and this difference in the burden of passengers' ports, as well as the criterion for extending the duration of the concession provided for in Article 9 of this Act, etc. I'm not sure that all of this can be solved by this implementing regulation, but some things would have to have the government's authority, given that the government is also bringing some concession regulations, and it also gives consent somewhere. Third. There are criteria for establishing several port administrations. This is the article that we spoke about earlier on about local and regional self-government units. He's going to pass the regulation instead of being the law. And it is authorised that within 12 months of the date of entry into force of this law, with the agreement of the Minister in charge of spatial planning, a regulation has been adopted laying down the intentions of the required part of the port...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80162	Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80163	I'll be right there. Open for public transport in the county... Now the question is actually entering the right of construction and spatial planning documents which is quite difficult for the minister in charge to agree to change since he hasn't changed in Parliament, and there we are in... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He doesn't have that kind of authority. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80164	Thank you. The word has a esteemed representative of the Crown of Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80165	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State with his associates. I am pleased at this late afternoon that the proposer is in one of the strongest compositions, which confirms the seriousness of the proposed amendments and the addition of the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports with the final proposal of the law. In spite of a few proposed changes and additions, they are very important and important in order to truly be able to further define and specifically direct that, maritime well-being as an exceptional and valuable source of economic development deserves and obliges us to preserve the existing not only for us but also for the future, and to keep pace in the direction of what is important to preserve, and to exploit what is imposed as an economic and future of our development. I would especially point out a few changes that seem to be very useful and are now giving the opportunity to be easy and when it is indeed a real interest to extend the concession. For example, the current law provides for the possibility and procedure when the headship of the county, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Croatia, can extend the term of the concession. These amendments and additions to the Law on the Sea Good provide for the possibility that the port administration as a concession provider may extend the concession period of course with the consent of the owner, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Croatia. As the proposed possibility to extend the concession period in public transport ports is encouraged to further invest in the port suburbs and superstructure by the concession authority. Because this way also allows for a private-public partnership between the port administration and the concession authority. But also the port administration knows best, I mean in the first place both the state port administrations and the port administration of the county which and how to do in a particular area. This is particularly important for the reasons why the period of concession may be extended to a total of 50 years for certain areas and for relevant activities. And it always stands out if new investments justify it economically. And it is therefore important to highlight what was necessary to do, and what we have clearly shown by these amendments and amendments to the law that existing ports and ports are being arranged, dressed, secured by a secure link, and all services that must be provided by a designated port are provided. For example, the recently signed Treaty for the construction of the Port of Rogac at Solta confirms that the existing port should be satisfied with modern nauticalism, but yet in the study we started working it is necessary to complete to say how many ships can live on the Croatian part of the Adriatic. Not to be followed by how large a megayacht promenade, for yachts, because the Adriatic Sea is still a closed sea limited to our side, on this side of the Adriatic, to ensure all ecological preconditions for so many ships. Of course, the current 105 thousand boats of domestic and 60 thousand foreign yachts indicate the possibility that exactly in Article 10, the port area, i.e. the contents covered in the port area of ports opened for public transport of local and county importance, should be highlighted. We have not put on the side of domestic ships and boats, but it is also specified that not only those who live permanently, who have a place of residence, the owner who has a residence in the area of the local self-government unit, but also the water object is mostly located in that area and is listed in the register, the register of ships of the competent port captains, in order to really enable those living on the continent and not living on the sea, in cities and places where they are registered, and in the register of port administration, the port captains have a secure connection. These also allow nautical connections, nautical vessels, fishing berths and berths. I stress the fishing chain and the berths, but with a specific route when it can be used and when not. Because the lack of fishing ports that should be solved in the next period is always the subject of spatial plans and certain economic and interest of fishermen in the area. What should also be pointed out in particular is thus introducing order and collection of any service. Even after the proposal for this law, the proposer continues to say where in those ports where there is no economic interest in providing waste reception services, ship supply, electricity, services will be provided by the port administration. And as soon as that port administration provides safe financial order, navigation order, safety of navigation and every day concessions to those who want to deal with waste, water supply and electricity, it is also possible to actually collect revenue so that these revenues are spent on further development of existing ports and ports and create the possibility for them to be truly at the highest level of development. The promoter made it very clear that, to this day, everything that has been installed on a sea-good example of a crane as equipment will remain state-owned, and from today on it depends on the length of the concession period. The cranes and everything that has been invested in the superstructure will be the one who won the concession. This really ensures that the sea is turned more, exploiting the maritime goods in line with, in particular, spatial plans, in the second row with the desire to develop and fertilise every port and port and to develop what we want to say in the economic sense in this area. It is therefore necessary to encourage the Proposer to make a full proposal for the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports over the next period so that we can prepare the law thoroughly and for a long time as a whole, in full form that we do not have a number of amendments and additions for the most important things that can be done. That is why I believe that this next period will be long enough and thorough enough for all these things that we have highlighted to be incorporated into a law that would be like this, like these amendments and additions, modern, modern and would primarily ensure the safety of navigation, environmental protection, but also economic development to anyone involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80166	Thank you. On behalf of the club, five minutes, Honorable representative of Alenka Kosha Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80167	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Proposers, first of all, I would like to stress that we, as a HNS club, will support this bill, i.e. the amendment of this law. Because we think it's good for these changes to be well regulated by the irregularities that so far existed in the law. As we know in the European Union, there is not yet a single policy on public port management. There is neither a fully common solution to the status of ports, which is why there is no coordination in this area by our country with the European Union's gains. Mediterranean states, as we had the opportunity to hear on the board today, from Mr. Assistant Minister, in most cases have a maritime belt that protects access to the sea, so our Italian neighbours also have a maritime well-being but only 6 meters while with us this maritime belt is set by at least 6 meters, which means that the maritime well covers the entire port regardless of the coverage in the depth of the mainland of the port area. It should not be forgotten that in the 1990s, the 95th port workers in Croatia were singled out for construction, until then set out for construction of port facilities and ports in general, which is why the 95th Law of Marine Ports has just been recognised to them. the primary concession for the performance of port activities at 12 years. This law gives them every praise to allow them to extend that concession to ensure the future and for those port workers who are still doing it there, however, the question remains, what about the investments and whose investments had to be made, in the meantime, necessary. So there are some private investments that have been made necessary to maintain the function and work within these port areas and now the question of whose ownership is now being raised. Also, given that the Law on the Sea is a good ban on obtaining ownership on maritime goods, it is not only a question of this segment but also of the privatisation of commercial companies from the early 1990s, when the privatisation of certain properties in the area entered into the core capital of those companies and when those companies with that capital were registered in land books. So, according to different regulations, things have happened that are not uniquely treated today in all port areas, and that is one of the things that should certainly be quite quickly, let's say for the next year to be defined and sort of solved, because if, by the Law on Maritime Good, it's not possible to have ownership in those port spaces, then it's not possible under the Privatisation Act to have real estate in that part. So this law does not resolve this crucial issue and it is de facto to be resolved and I assume that this will be settled by a single bill by the end of this term. So if there's even a booking to do, you have to do a check and you have to write it down, so you have to make a correction. The fact that something is registered doesn't mean that the Priory has to stay that way. I would also like to just look back at the information that today we have about 105 thousand boats and about 65 thousand foreign yachts and that the issue of sustainable development on the Adriatic has really become a question if we do not have so many attachments. So we need to see how much the Adriatic capacity we can satisfy and what we can do afterwards. And in this sense, I certainly support these proposals of this law because it is a way to use a port that is otherwise used for the local domicile population and for the passenger burden when it is not burdened with what is the primary activity, that it is also used for yachts, or for all the other boats that are there, so I think it's good. And I would also just like to point out that the division, therefore, is to create conditions for taking yachts, but also to share that financial gain to be divided into parameters 1:3, means everyone to get one third, units of local self-government, county and state as a principle I consider correct. And maybe just for the end. As for utility and memorial rents, surely we need to think about it very carefully. We have received as representatives a single amendment, a proposal for an amendment which we cannot give to this occasion, however, because simply this is not the subject of this law at the moment, but that the monumental rent, i.e. the release of ports from paying the monumental rent and the release of ports from paying the communal rent, compensation, should certainly be considered, naturally differentiated when I thought it under differentiated I think that the character of the port should be seen. If it is a tourist port, then, of course, it should be charged, and if it is a commercial port, or a freight port, then it is necessary to consider in what sense to charge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80168	Thank you. In conclusion, Secretary of State Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80169	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. First of all, I would like to thank all the clubs that have supported these changes and additions to the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports. Indeed, the changes are not extensive but are extremely important at this time for the further quality of the operation of the primarily port system in the Republic of Croatia. I would just like to look at a few of the things that I may have partly mentioned in my introduction, and this is the part that primarily refers to the problems that are now on the maritime good, which have been created for a number of years, not only in the conversion of social enterprises when, through a solution of the Privatisation Fund to certain companies, practically in basic capital has been recognised the right to invest in maritime goods, and later I also said that through an unequal court practice, individual land-booked courts in the Republic of Croatia have made such solutions by the Privatisation Fund in the possession of certain companies, so we have a situation of very unequal relations on maritime good and in shipbuilding ports, and in ports open to public transport and in ports for special purposes. So one very wide spectrum of different acquisitions of ownership rights in land books on maritime good, and that objectively is the problem we need to solve as soon as possible. I said, in the introduction, that through this systematic proposal to amend and supplement, that is, even creating a new law, we will need to address the issue of rights acquired on maritime goods in the part where we interpret that it is not possible to obtain ownership rights on maritime goods but the fact is that certain companies have paid by paying the shares and what the state has admitted to them and they are not guilty, that is, to determine how to resolve compensation for those companies that have entered the land book for maritime benefit. It's a very important thing to solve with this new law. Another thing is also one series, I would say a spectrum of different structures that came from a hundred years ago on maritime good until today, to which citizens need to resolve their status until when, on February 15th 68th, it is as foreseen by the Law on Construction or some date, they must and should be legalised on the maritime good that with the buildings that were subsequently created and had building permits given to certain units of local self-government either cities and municipalities that had already built certain buildings there either economically and any sports and any housing, so today there is a problem for all those who have acquired property in certain ways from such building permits that we should already have wondered whether they could at that time be issued on the current maritime goods. So there are a whole series of issues that touch the acquired rights of maritime goods and that must be resolved, which the September 2003 law has not resolved, and this is an open question that we are dealing with at this time with the ministry and to which a truly quality answer should be given. The second thing that is also very important is that, and the other thing is that the mostly marine goods cadastre is not established anywhere in the Republic of Croatia, and what is even more important and more crucial is that there is no systematically established limit of maritime goods in the Republic of Croatia. Perhaps only 5.6% of the Croatian coast, or maritime goods, is the limit of maritime goods in the area. Therefore, somewhere over 90% of maritime goods, the maritime good has not established the limit of maritime good. And for this reason, we are now going to systematically resolve the setting of maritime goods borders in a way that our ministry, therefore, the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, together with the State Geodetic Administration, has drawn up an aerophotometric recording of the entire area of maritime goods in the Republic of Croatia and is now moving through the county commissions, i.e. the ministries to define and establish the border of maritime goods in the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, Mr. Peru mentioned the problem of solving, i.e. accepting waste in... traffic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I must say that it has already been settled by the regulations on order in ports which the regulation implies an obligation to port for... they must possess a waste-receiving device from ships. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I agree, and I agree, that the law also needs to resolve the issue not only of municipal compensation, not only of fees, or of monumental rents. There's still an open question of waterproof compensation. Therefore, the question we must ask ourselves through the adoption of a new law is whether a concession which pays a concession fee for the use of maritime goods still needs to be burdened with its business with those fees which he is not actually provided in the area for which he pays the concession. We are aware of the fact that companies, concessionaries in ports for... Transport itself maintains complete infrastructure, maintains all those activities for which a municipal fee is normally paid. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it is right to ask the question whether it is justified to pay the municipal fee and other fees paid by the concession authority at each port. Any port special purpose, any port open to public traffic. I'd like to, just for a little while, look back at a few things Mr. Arlovic said. In fact, Article 2 of this Law neither we intend nor think that it can be noted from the Law that if someone uses maritime goods and does not pay concession fees or does not use this maritime good in accordance with the concession contract, that the possible damage he has done to maritime good investment, i.e. by unlawful construction of such an article of the law, would be legalised. So if someone was building on a maritime good, they are subject to the provisions of the Construction Law. Therefore, at least we cannot interpret from such provisions the law so that the possible damage it has done and as far as the construction is concerned would be legalized in a certain way. However, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, based on its laws, has to decide on a maritime good that is contrary to the law, to take down, to make a decision on the demolition. Therefore, it was not our intention to do so, and we do not seem to be able to interpret it from such a formulation of the law. Second thing, the crane question. At this moment, prior to the adoption of the amendments and the addition of this Law, cranes are, or the stop equipment is a maritime good in general use. So, it's maritime good, and it's only now that this amendment of the law that the bulkhead equipment becomes port equipment and comes into ownership mode. So, cranes that are still generally good by now, maritime good, now if the Parliament adopts such a legal solution would become the property of the Republic of Croatia and would be given to managing the port administrations that already have it. Only now do they have these, this bulky equipment as a general good, and now they would have and would manage the property of the Republic of Croatia, which, in accordance with the concession agreement, would be left to the management of the concessionary. So it doesn't really change anything other than knowing the titler of ownership right now. It is the Republic of Croatia on that equipment. As a rule, it is a equipment that has long been isolated, on which no concession fee is actually paid, but responsibility for a particular facility, a certain part of the equipment in the port must be determined precisely. It is in this case clear through the port administration, a concessionaire who manages that equipment. And one more thing that is very important, the more this article speaks of future stop equipment that will now be in the system of the ownership of concessionaires at the port and which can be easier through credit or some other way to acquire ownership rights. In other words, it can be easier to equip an individual port with facilities, i.e. with equipment that is now owned by it and not in the concession system, whether it is good in general use or whether it is the property of the Republic of Croatia. It was an intensities of the law, so to simplify the concessionaire in ports, enable him to own that equipment and to resolve the issue of financing such equipment more easily. And yet Mrs. Alenka Kossha Chichin-Shain said one thing here which perhaps, I mean, is not true. It is true that certain concessionaries in the ports received a priority concession, which practically recognised the right to invest, the right to work in ports. Because clearly, that's how the ports and the infrastructure and the superstructure became generally good. They could not acquire ownership rights, could not become owners of this, and the state, through a 12-year priority concession, allowed them to manage the port clearly further. However, all that has been done in the meantime, what has been said, any building they have built, the object of the superstructure is not their private investment. It is not possible to invest on the maritime good to acquire ownership rights and any investment must be in accordance with the spatial-planned documentation. It had to be established by concession agreements. Thus, such a building could not even be built, and if built, it is still maritime good. Therefore, it is not disputed and that is clear. One more thing I wanted to say is that by preparing a more comprehensive proposal for a Law on Maritime Good and Seaports, we really expected this Law to be one of those "EU" laws that harmonize our legislation with the acquis of the European Union. We wanted to wait for the European Commission to deliver this "port package" defining the relationship in the public ports of European legislation against ports and towards concessionaries in those ports. Regardless, we cannot wait indefinitely for such a single package of measures to be adopted by the European Commission. And I believe that over the next year, for encouraging further investment in the maritime good, we must address these maritime goods-related dubiosises. They are not small, they are a great burden to the existing, in quotes, owners of maritime goods because no one can own a maritime good, but is a land-book owner, so they create certain difficulties in investments, so it is practically a stone around the door and those who have acquired the right of ownership on the maritime good, and they were not able to acquire it on the one hand, and on the other hand, it seems to me that by this change, that is, by this new law, we must launch investments on the maritime good that we must recognise to the heart the current laws were not done to the extent that the traffic in the Republic of Croatia in the ports requires and I hold that we have not so far had a good answer that we can respond to that traffic growth that appears in Croatia in all the state ports. So this Law could see the light of day next year, and I believe that no matter how difficult it is to solve problems on the seabed, we must bite into that cake and indeed solve all these problems in the marine good with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80170	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80171	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports. The amendments submitted by the Legislative Committee were accepted by the Proposer. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 89 votes in favour and 4 abstentions, the proposed Law, together with the amendment accepted by the applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80172	We move to the next – - Proposal for a Law on Olivery and Olivery, first reading, P.Z. No. 545 Proposer of the Law is representative of Vesna Škara Ozbolt. You received the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of this Act, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply in accordance with Articles 144 to 150. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. You received the reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Would the Proposer like to further explain the proposal? Here you go. Representative Vesna Škrare Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80173	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The production and transport of olives and olive oil has so far not been particularly regulated in our country, but this matter has been regulated by the Food Act, there is an operational programme for the rise of olive plantation in Croatia in the period 2004/2007. For years, there's an international agreement on olive oil and... olives adopted by Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The production of olives and olive oil is regulated by the Regulation on Fruit Oil and Comin Oil, which was brought by the Minister of Agriculture on 22 May this year and Croatia by the number of trees, surfaces and annual production of olive oil participates very little in world production, with about 0.1%, and only a little more in European and indeed with these modest sizes of Croatian olive growing in the future can only be a cheap raw base of leading olive countries. The Croatian interest should be that olive growing is indeed a respectable area of production of special, typical oils of protected varieties or geographical origin. And what varieties can this really be achieved with? Well, certainly not with imported varieties, but with homemade ones. The production of seedlings in the country is uncontrolled, uninhibited enough and unquality and seedlings are bought and produced without any control, and also the protection of geographical origin does not exist in our country and that is indeed the problem. The additional problem with Croatian olivers is that with taking care of the coma, i.e. The remains of a processed olive that comes out of processing today do not exist where it is delayed. 90% of the coma ends either in the sea or in private dumps where it is illegally delayed. The consumption of olive oil in Croatia is per capita 1 and a half liters per year, and the aim should be to increase production to 3 liters per year per capita, and each municipality must indeed know its exact direction of development and without it the situation is unclear and much more versed. This Bill clearly defines who can be the producer of olives and which are varieties of olives, the Law prohibits the import and placing on the market of oil without the control of the competent authorities whose values and qualities have not been established and tested by the competent laboratory. The law also proposes the introduction of an olive oil stock exchange, which also introduces an olive inspection that carries out all inspection tasks in the production of olives and fruit processing. It also introduces an olive cadastre, so olive groves can be raised on the surfaces of the established olive cadastre, and olive and olive oil producers who place their products on the market must be registered in the register. So, in one word, the aim of this bill is to produce as high-quality oil as possible with protected and historical origin, to produce domestic indigenous olive trees, to establish a oil stock exchange, to determine an authorised oil assessment institution at the state level and to stimulate and promote the production of table olives, and to professionally and fully resolve the coma through the collection and production centres, because only organized we will be able to deal with the countries of the developed olive industry of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80174	Thank you. Does the Committee’s rapporteur want to take the floor? We're moving on to a debate. On behalf of the IDS club, the esteemed representative Valter Drandić. He's not in the hall. He's losing his right to debate. On behalf of the SDP club, a respected representative, Vice-President of the House Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80175	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP advocates' club will support the proposal of the Olivery and Olivery Act, and we think it is good that this bill has appeared and in this respect we congratulate our colleague Vesni Škara Ozbolt who referred him to the procedure because it practically knocks on the open door, and as far as we can see from the explanation and together with our colleagues, that is, with our oilers, there has been this initiative and this proposal of the law. Secondly, what we would like to say immediately in the introduction, we do not accept the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which it proposes not to accept the proposal for a Law on Olivery. Namely, the content of the government's reasoning is completely hampered by its proposal. A whole series of things that are described in the explanation by the geographical information system through the question of oil quality labelling, then the need for oil stocking, etc. In fact, they show that it is necessary to pass the law as soon as possible. And the second thing that shows, it shows that the existing rule didn't solve the issue until the end. Thirdly, it shows that this Regulation is not sufficiently in line with the European Union rules concerning this issue and among other things... We can say that the issue of the development of the geographical information system of olives is regulated by the EU regulation, and the system includes olive growers, etc., and they themselves say that it has yet to be incorporated into the system that the ministry will operate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Fourth. The ministry says, among other things, that the process of drawing up a plan to harmonise existing rules and the adoption of new legal and sublegal acts in the area of agriculture and rural development under which rules are to be planned and adopted to regulate the olive and olive oil market in accordance with the applicable EU rules. Look, this is one finding that's seriously worrying. You know, if someone outside the Republic of Croatia were to pay for it while it was waiting, then we at the SDP Representatives' Club might understand that. But the problem is that it is paid by our olivers, our oilers, to pay ultimately for the consumption of olive oil and in this respect it is quite clear that this issue is totally unacceptable to further delay and that it is necessary to adopt a bill. Fifthly, this bill may have certain irregularities, or there may be room for improvement and improvement. Perhaps some questions might be further precise. But it is quite certain that he is a good basis for making the final bill and in this respect there is no objection to the proposed law so that it could not be accepted and referred to the parliamentary procedure. Now, let us remind, among other things, what colleague Vesna Škara has already said on behalf of the promoter. First, that the Republic of Croatia is unfortunately doing everything in world production 0.1% of olive oil production. Secondly, it is one of the foods that has extremely healthy and quality ingredients and that only 1 and a half liters of food is spent per capita per year in the Republic of Croatia. Third, that this area is completely unsettled and unsettled. We had a chance to watch or watch last week’s emissions related to the problems of agriculture and our Adriatic and the island, and then suddenly you see some of our islanders who have not only oil from this but also from the previous years they hold, have no one to sell it to especially in the marina for a simple reason, because the market around this issue is not at all arranged at all and at least not arranged among other things, and because of the lack of an olive oil stock exchange that should be determined and formed and eventually set up some unique prices throughout the country, after all, which would be a place where the market value of a litre of olive oil would be determined and allowed to ultimately be available to all of our people. In addition, it is very important, among other things, to suggest that the colleague in her proposal made it very clear that the variety of olives actually did. Mostly taking care of domestic olives, original varieties that have their comparative advantages compared to some Italian olives. Especially when it comes to our islands and our coast, and not only because of their oiliness but also because of the possibility of supporting certain degrees of low temperatures and air currents and of course storms or wind. Thus, in this respect, it is absolutely certain that it is also trying to protect the originality of olives, i.e. to ensure the proper protection of organic species, which are dominant among us and also the division of oil and its definition is related to extra virgin olive oil and virgin olive oil. Of course, it pays particular attention to the fact that, in fact, through the regulation of the law, the obligations and responsibilities of the Office for Olivery and Oil Agriculture, which should be established in Split, where the taxation of Article 16 lists the tasks that it should carry out. And which should finally be done in the Republic of Croatia among other things. First of all, here is thought of a cadastre, an olive cadastre that we do not have, then there is a question of introducing unique methods and analysis, then a standard of physical and chemical and other properties of olive oil and olive coma oil, etc., up to the question of regions and regions related to olives and olives. Therefore, when we try to look at this aspect, then the attempt of this solution probably in relation to the needs of our olivers and oilers has clearly identified and defined the fundamental problems that should be regulated. And one of them below is that, among other things, there is standardisation of the market and that would actually improve the production of olives and olive oil on the one hand, and at the same time ensure the actual opening of new olive plantation, increase oil production and prepare the Republic of Croatia for entry into the European Union in this segment. What I must say and personally not only as a member of the club was particularly pleased is Article 29, which prohibits the placing on the market of olive groves whose age is less than one year, then classifies and calls virgin olive oil for consumption which did not meet the regulations of characteristics etc. In fact, here, through these prohibitions from (a) to (i) in Article 29, it is very clearly recommended to protect the variety of olives in the Republic of Croatia, (b) to protect certain quality olive oil, (c) to ensure the geographical origin of this olive oil and its ecological certification, and then to ensure the rise of new olives and to ensure the means for that purpose, rather than that they are misused because their abuse is prohibited. And, of course, it is particularly important here to make sure that, where the chimney is to be disposed of, waste water or better said about the ecological protection of the plant and the production of organic oil itself, olive oil. Therefore, this law is commendable. It should be supported regardless of some I say again less remarks which could be put in place and not only from the point of view of what could possibly still be extended to the jurisdiction of the institution which is proposed but also about the administrative oversight and the issue of these criminal provisions that appear here but these are things which are both of nomotechnical nature and which should certainly be in a position to reach the second reading of the preparation. The last thing that also warns and provides a specific task is related to the control or inspection of the implementation of this law, which separates itself from the ministry, is given to the State Inspectorate, which practically leads to a position that also the resolution ministry which does not appear only as the holder of the law in relation to olives but also as a special entity related to the promotion of the development of olive industry, etc., practically leads to and is subject to the jurisdiction and control of an independent state body, a state inspector, which should ensure that new quality and new objectives are achieved in the production of olive oil on the one hand and on the other, the spread of quality plantations of the original breed, the variety of olives in our country. For all these reasons, we support this bill and, of course, we call upon our colleagues to support it and we want the colleague alone or in cooperation with others as soon as possible to prepare the final draft of the law... My colleague, be polite, don't throw it away because it's inappropriate. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's not, you know, it's not just a question of provoking speakers, it's an expression of culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80176	Thank you. Does the representative want the conclusion? Does the Proposer's representative want to conclude? I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80177	Proposal for a law on oliverry and oliverry. Proposer of the Law is representative of Vesna Škare-Ozbolt. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a Law on Olivery and Olivery proposed by representative Vesna Škara Ozbolt is not accepted for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies. We can vote. The result? With 70 votes for, 7 abstentions and 8 against the proposed conclusion that the bill was rejected.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80178	I'm going to the next item on the agenda. 16th and 17th points, I suggest we unite. It's a... - Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Penal Code, the Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, first reading, P.Z. No. 548 - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, Proposer of Representative Slaven Letica, First Reading, P.Z. No. 549 The proposal for an act has been entered into the boxes. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the Law shall apply to Articles 144 to 150 of the Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Thank you. SDP counseling club. ... Yes, the promoter. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I asked. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80179	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues! This is one of the topics that we from the opposition will constantly heat up and try to get amendments and amendments to the law and fight for legal provisions to be adopted in this House. What exactly is this about? It is a matter on the one hand to write down criminal acts that should ensure that illegality and irregularity and violations, crimes, or if you want illegal actions done in privatisation and conversion are finally processed on one hand. On the other hand, the proposed law ensures more effective persecution of economic crime, generally taking into account the standards of the European Union with the acquis communautaire and ultimately with Chapter seven of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement adopted by this Assembly, ratified and ultimately signed with the European Union. The second thing we would like to point out in particular about this issue is that a whole series of inability to process responsibilities for illegal actions that have taken place and criminal acts in the field of conversion and privatisation are the consequences among other short limitation periods that have leaked or are ongoing and which are practically allowing for the legalisation of something that is not acceptable at all. Here immediately by the way, we find it totally unacceptable to get into a situation that... raises the issue of responsibility from the aspect of political, moral and any aspect when it comes to illegality and in particular when it comes to violations and criminal acts for any sphere of social life, as well as conversion and privatisation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] An even more unacceptable additional situation is that legal actions are not taken and legal assumptions are not created for the confiscation of property illegally acquired regardless of whether it is an abuse of law that has only immoral character, crime, criminal or criminal liability. We believe that it is simply inadmissible and in this context it is quite clear that it is actually inadmissible in relation to our Constitution and that, in accordance with the Constitution, action should be taken. It is clear, however, that in such a segment, it is not possible to ignore the constitutional provision of Article 16 which states that human freedoms and rights can be limited by law to protect the freedoms and rights of other people and legal order, public morality and health. We ask the question of how it affects public morality that in the illegal way that the State Audit has established by revising the entities of conversion and privatisation that more than 95% of this has been done in an illegal way, including such forms of illegality that have the character of criminal acts. Therefore, we believe that it is necessary not only to adopt an amendment and an addition to the Penal Code that will open the possibility of processing and determining criminal and other liability for such abuses and illegalities but also to adopt other relevant regulations which will ultimately sanction these illegalities in the field of conversion and privatisation, damage the social community because it is contrary to public morality, because it is insulting the rights of other people or citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Finally, this is contrary to the legal order of the Republic of Croatia and, in addition, to the fundamental values of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia on which constitutional values such as equality, then social justice, respect for human rights, integrity of ownership, etc. It is therefore necessary to approach legislative regulation of this issue. One form of regulation is among other things the need to amend and supplement the Penal Code. That is why we believe that persecution and processing, that they have led to widespread citizens' understanding, that they are not all equal before the law first. Then, they seriously threw faith in state institutions that they were willing and staffed to deal with more diverse crime, especially economics, which has seduced many families into black and damaged the Croatian economy and the reputation of our country and... on a plan of respect... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] civil morality and ultimately business success. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Once the State Audit, I recall, finished the job, the extensive work of reviewing conversion and privatisation itself is logically raised on the issue of allowing state repression authorities to do their job and sanction those illegalities that represent criminal activity. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we ask again the question of who has the right to close their eyes in the Republic of Croatia after the State Audit found that more than 95% of privatisation and conversion was done illegally? Who has the right to go over that fact? And in this way to enable it to actually legalize, over time legalize illegally acquired assets. We ask a very serious question, and in this regard we ask that appropriate measures be taken. That is why, among other things, we propose an amendment to this law. Of course, when it comes to the actions, it should be recalled that most of these actions have been covered by the wave of limitations, that part of the cases already being conducted or to be led before the criminal justice system are actually in the past we are asking the question and we are asking to extend the deadlines of limitations so that we can practically ensure that such a form of responsibility is determined and that this issue is definitely resolved, among other things not only as a concrete form of illegality but also criminal offences, but also, among other things, as... or the basis at which we rest and return the forms of bribery and corruption that develop needlessly and excessively in relation to these issues. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'd like to remind you of something else. In 2003, we had a situation where, on the basis of the work of the expert group at the Ministry of Justice led by the respected doctor, Professor Petar Novoselac, in the novel of the Criminal Law, we also made certain modern incriminations modelled by German law which were very similar to other European law. It is particularly important to note at the time the opinion of the profession that there has been an expression in the report on the work of the state attorney's office in criminal cases in connection with the conversion and privatisation submitted to the Croatian Parliament. These criminal acts, new criminal offences, which were proposed among other things, are also covered by this proposal to amend and supplement the law and we in this regard want this law to be discussed. We suggested it was an emergency procedure because there was too much debate in our public, but unfortunately we failed to get an emergency procedure but we agreed that at least the debate was held in the first reading. Let me remind you immediately what new criminal acts are involved? As you can see in Article 6 where the new article 294 is added. In fact, a new criminal offence against the security of payment and business or, as is said, the abuse of trust or a new criminal offence of trust abuse is proposed, following the example of the criminal offence of infidelity in German, Austrian and Swiss criminal law, where it is a key economic crime primarily involving the criminality of management structures in commercial societies. It replaces the existing criminal offence of abuse of position and authority if it is made up of responsible persons, who are misclassified among crimes against official duty, and because of a number of legal and technical shortcomings suffers and serious criticisms in the current Criminal Code. In addition, it also covers the former crimes of abuse and trust referred to in Article 227 of non-aware and economic business 291, abuse of powers in economic business 292 and the conclusion of a harmful contract. In fact, the unsub was branded generally as who? But who, in the first place, will be responsible. Who are they? Responsible persons in the holding, members of the management of stock companies, directors of a limited liability company, members of the supervisory boards and so on, and other persons entrusted to care for other persons’ property or care or a lawyer representing a particular firm. It is important that the crime of abuse of trust is no longer limited to the private sector. Contrary to criminal abuse, the act of abuse of positions and powers that referred to the social sector. Because it is a distinction between the relics of the former legal system in socialist times and therefore we believe that this new crime should be introduced into the criminal, legislation of the Republic of Croatia. Of course the description of the piece itself you've been given in addition. The second offence we introduce is a criminal offence in breach of the Law on the Court Procedure, which is actually proposed to work out Article 121(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. According to that provision, judges and judges commit a criminal offence when breaking the law. Such behaviour could have been filed under the general criminal act of the so-called “major ” until now. the abuse of the situation and the powers referred to in Article 337 but as it concerns sensitive matter affecting the independence of the judicial authority, it is instructions to prescribe the responsibility of the judges by a special provision of the law, as is the case with other legal systems, for example, and the German criminal law. The proposed criminal offence is not limited to judges and judges as perpetrators but also includes state lawyers and their deputies participating in a judicial procedure in which they can act in favour or to the harm of one party. The criminal offence is also limited not only to decision-making but also includes the conduct of proceedings and it is necessary for the existence of a criminal offence but not enough that the decision objectively constitutes a violation of the law but is required and that the perpetrator acts with the aim of obtaining benefit or harm in one party's proceedings. a criminal offence may be committed with a direct intention. And of course we provide a special provision in Article 9 which we propose that the law enter into force on the day of its publication in the National Journal and in accordance with Article 89 of the Constitution. We believe that there are particularly justified reasons, that there is no need for a longer "vacatio legion". Why? Because every day more and more time flows and more and more of these works fall into oblivion. At the same time, it does not act on persecution for such acts, which actually causes additional damage to the Republic of Croatia, its economic and social prosperity. But also what is particularly important to her internal and external political reputation. The same should be said that, in accordance with the proposed new criminal acts that I spoke of earlier, and the extension of the statute of limitations, we suggested that Articles 291, 291, 292, 293, 294, be deleted because those crimes that separate individuals, for example, the issue of certain crimes in private and social sectors, when it comes to abuse of powers, there is no longer any need to survive anymore, because this is all covered by this crime that I spoke of a little more widely. For all these reasons, we consider it to be a bill that is not only fundamental or one of the fundamental laws of the Republic of Croatia but rather a very current bill that needs to be achieved in the economic, social interests of the Republic of Croatia. A prerequisite should be created for the injustices and illegalities committed in privatisation and conversions to be processed and sanctioned and that should finally be allowed for all citizens in the Republic of Croatia to be equal before the law for their actions. It cannot be allowed that in the Republic of Croatia, some obviously, based on the findings of state audits, were involved in the conversion and privatisation, that they had acquired enormous assets and that they did not only retain that property for that part, but they did not respond at all. We also ask that these assets be returned, that they be taken away from them or equivalent to that property, and that they be processed and responsible for the proportionate work they have committed in that part. If it is a criminal offence liability, if it is a criminal offence, and where criminal offences are involved, and that in this respect, this Parliament is obliged if no one else is obliged, we are obliged as the most legislative body and as a representative body of citizens to create a prerequisite that this kind of injustice that has happened in these 15 years finally begins to correct and correct in the Republic of Croatia in the interests of all of us, and especially generations that come behind us because, in fact, until it is corrected, there will be a permanent point of social conflict and tension between those who feel deceived and who have been brought into a situation that were uneven in relation to the law in relation to those who illegally acquired their more favourable position and have been enriched in an illegal manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80180	Thank you. Second proposing representative of Slaven Letica. He's gone. The committees? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate on both of the bill's proposals. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Penal Code. The Proposer of the Law is the Club of Representatives of the SDP. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Penal Code proposed by the SDP Representatives Club for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies is not accepted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 71 votes for, 5 abstentions and 11 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80182	I'm going to the next item on the agenda. 16th and 17th points, I suggest we unite. It's a... - Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Penal Code, the Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, first reading, P.Z. No. 548 - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, Proposer of Representative Slaven Letica, First Reading, P.Z. No. 549 The proposal for an act has been entered into the boxes. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the Law shall apply to Articles 144 to 150 of the Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Thank you. SDP counseling club. ... Yes, the promoter. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I asked. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80183	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues! This is one of the topics that we from the opposition will constantly heat up and try to get amendments and amendments to the law and fight for legal provisions to be adopted in this House. What exactly is this about? It is a matter on the one hand to write down criminal acts that should ensure that illegality and irregularity and violations, crimes, or if you want illegal actions done in privatisation and conversion are finally processed on one hand. On the other hand, the proposed law ensures more effective persecution of economic crime, generally taking into account the standards of the European Union with the acquis communautaire and ultimately with Chapter seven of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement adopted by this Assembly, ratified and ultimately signed with the European Union. The second thing we would like to point out in particular about this issue is that a whole series of inability to process responsibilities for illegal actions that have taken place and criminal acts in the field of conversion and privatisation are the consequences among other short limitation periods that have leaked or are ongoing and which are practically allowing for the legalisation of something that is not acceptable at all. Here immediately by the way, we find it totally unacceptable to get into a situation that... raises the issue of responsibility from the aspect of political, moral and any aspect when it comes to illegality and in particular when it comes to violations and criminal acts for any sphere of social life, as well as conversion and privatisation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] An even more unacceptable additional situation is that legal actions are not taken and legal assumptions are not created for the confiscation of property illegally acquired regardless of whether it is an abuse of law that has only immoral character, crime, criminal or criminal liability. We believe that it is simply inadmissible and in this context it is quite clear that it is actually inadmissible in relation to our Constitution and that, in accordance with the Constitution, action should be taken. It is clear, however, that in such a segment, it is not possible to ignore the constitutional provision of Article 16 which states that human freedoms and rights can be limited by law to protect the freedoms and rights of other people and legal order, public morality and health. We ask the question of how it affects public morality that in the illegal way that the State Audit has established by revising the entities of conversion and privatisation that more than 95% of this has been done in an illegal way, including such forms of illegality that have the character of criminal acts. Therefore, we believe that it is necessary not only to adopt an amendment and an addition to the Penal Code that will open the possibility of processing and determining criminal and other liability for such abuses and illegalities but also to adopt other relevant regulations which will ultimately sanction these illegalities in the field of conversion and privatisation, damage the social community because it is contrary to public morality, because it is insulting the rights of other people or citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Finally, this is contrary to the legal order of the Republic of Croatia and, in addition, to the fundamental values of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia on which constitutional values such as equality, then social justice, respect for human rights, integrity of ownership, etc. It is therefore necessary to approach legislative regulation of this issue. One form of regulation is among other things the need to amend and supplement the Penal Code. That is why we believe that persecution and processing, that they have led to widespread citizens' understanding, that they are not all equal before the law first. Then, they seriously threw faith in state institutions that they were willing and staffed to deal with more diverse crime, especially economics, which has seduced many families into black and damaged the Croatian economy and the reputation of our country and... on a plan of respect... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] civil morality and ultimately business success. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Once the State Audit, I recall, finished the job, the extensive work of reviewing conversion and privatisation itself is logically raised on the issue of allowing state repression authorities to do their job and sanction those illegalities that represent criminal activity. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we ask again the question of who has the right to close their eyes in the Republic of Croatia after the State Audit found that more than 95% of privatisation and conversion was done illegally? Who has the right to go over that fact? And in this way to enable it to actually legalize, over time legalize illegally acquired assets. We ask a very serious question, and in this regard we ask that appropriate measures be taken. That is why, among other things, we propose an amendment to this law. Of course, when it comes to the actions, it should be recalled that most of these actions have been covered by the wave of limitations, that part of the cases already being conducted or to be led before the criminal justice system are actually in the past we are asking the question and we are asking to extend the deadlines of limitations so that we can practically ensure that such a form of responsibility is determined and that this issue is definitely resolved, among other things not only as a concrete form of illegality but also criminal offences, but also, among other things, as... or the basis at which we rest and return the forms of bribery and corruption that develop needlessly and excessively in relation to these issues. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'd like to remind you of something else. In 2003, we had a situation where, on the basis of the work of the expert group at the Ministry of Justice led by the respected doctor, Professor Petar Novoselac, in the novel of the Criminal Law, we also made certain modern incriminations modelled by German law which were very similar to other European law. It is particularly important to note at the time the opinion of the profession that there has been an expression in the report on the work of the state attorney's office in criminal cases in connection with the conversion and privatisation submitted to the Croatian Parliament. These criminal acts, new criminal offences, which were proposed among other things, are also covered by this proposal to amend and supplement the law and we in this regard want this law to be discussed. We suggested it was an emergency procedure because there was too much debate in our public, but unfortunately we failed to get an emergency procedure but we agreed that at least the debate was held in the first reading. Let me remind you immediately what new criminal acts are involved? As you can see in Article 6 where the new article 294 is added. In fact, a new criminal offence against the security of payment and business or, as is said, the abuse of trust or a new criminal offence of trust abuse is proposed, following the example of the criminal offence of infidelity in German, Austrian and Swiss criminal law, where it is a key economic crime primarily involving the criminality of management structures in commercial societies. It replaces the existing criminal offence of abuse of position and authority if it is made up of responsible persons, who are misclassified among crimes against official duty, and because of a number of legal and technical shortcomings suffers and serious criticisms in the current Criminal Code. In addition, it also covers the former crimes of abuse and trust referred to in Article 227 of non-aware and economic business 291, abuse of powers in economic business 292 and the conclusion of a harmful contract. In fact, the unsub was branded generally as who? But who, in the first place, will be responsible. Who are they? Responsible persons in the holding, members of the management of stock companies, directors of a limited liability company, members of the supervisory boards and so on, and other persons entrusted to care for other persons’ property or care or a lawyer representing a particular firm. It is important that the crime of abuse of trust is no longer limited to the private sector. Contrary to criminal abuse, the act of abuse of positions and powers that referred to the social sector. Because it is a distinction between the relics of the former legal system in socialist times and therefore we believe that this new crime should be introduced into the criminal, legislation of the Republic of Croatia. Of course the description of the piece itself you've been given in addition. The second offence we introduce is a criminal offence in breach of the Law on the Court Procedure, which is actually proposed to work out Article 121(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. According to that provision, judges and judges commit a criminal offence when breaking the law. Such behaviour could have been filed under the general criminal act of the so-called “major ” until now. the abuse of the situation and the powers referred to in Article 337 but as it concerns sensitive matter affecting the independence of the judicial authority, it is instructions to prescribe the responsibility of the judges by a special provision of the law, as is the case with other legal systems, for example, and the German criminal law. The proposed criminal offence is not limited to judges and judges as perpetrators but also includes state lawyers and their deputies participating in a judicial procedure in which they can act in favour or to the harm of one party. The criminal offence is also limited not only to decision-making but also includes the conduct of proceedings and it is necessary for the existence of a criminal offence but not enough that the decision objectively constitutes a violation of the law but is required and that the perpetrator acts with the aim of obtaining benefit or harm in one party's proceedings. a criminal offence may be committed with a direct intention. And of course we provide a special provision in Article 9 which we propose that the law enter into force on the day of its publication in the National Journal and in accordance with Article 89 of the Constitution. We believe that there are particularly justified reasons, that there is no need for a longer "vacatio legion". Why? Because every day more and more time flows and more and more of these works fall into oblivion. At the same time, it does not act on persecution for such acts, which actually causes additional damage to the Republic of Croatia, its economic and social prosperity. But also what is particularly important to her internal and external political reputation. The same should be said that, in accordance with the proposed new criminal acts that I spoke of earlier, and the extension of the statute of limitations, we suggested that Articles 291, 291, 292, 293, 294, be deleted because those crimes that separate individuals, for example, the issue of certain crimes in private and social sectors, when it comes to abuse of powers, there is no longer any need to survive anymore, because this is all covered by this crime that I spoke of a little more widely. For all these reasons, we consider it to be a bill that is not only fundamental or one of the fundamental laws of the Republic of Croatia but rather a very current bill that needs to be achieved in the economic, social interests of the Republic of Croatia. A prerequisite should be created for the injustices and illegalities committed in privatisation and conversions to be processed and sanctioned and that should finally be allowed for all citizens in the Republic of Croatia to be equal before the law for their actions. It cannot be allowed that in the Republic of Croatia, some obviously, based on the findings of state audits, were involved in the conversion and privatisation, that they had acquired enormous assets and that they did not only retain that property for that part, but they did not respond at all. We also ask that these assets be returned, that they be taken away from them or equivalent to that property, and that they be processed and responsible for the proportionate work they have committed in that part. If it is a criminal offence liability, if it is a criminal offence, and where criminal offences are involved, and that in this respect, this Parliament is obliged if no one else is obliged, we are obliged as the most legislative body and as a representative body of citizens to create a prerequisite that this kind of injustice that has happened in these 15 years finally begins to correct and correct in the Republic of Croatia in the interests of all of us, and especially generations that come behind us because, in fact, until it is corrected, there will be a permanent point of social conflict and tension between those who feel deceived and who have been brought into a situation that were uneven in relation to the law in relation to those who illegally acquired their more favourable position and have been enriched in an illegal manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80184	Thank you. Second proposing representative of Slaven Letica. He's gone. The committees? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate on both of the bill's proposals. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Penal Code. Proposer of the Law is representative of Slaven Letica. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: no proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code proposed by the representative of Slaven Letica for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies shall be adopted. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 76 votes for, 7 abstentions, 2 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80187	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. This is one of the bills that the SDP has repeatedly referred to in the parliamentary procedure and which, as it is known, has not been and has not been accepted. For the simple reason, they were actually constantly looking for reasons not to accept the Single Property Tax Act, which they wanted to sanction and prescribe to pay taxes for those who acquired enormous unsuitable assets in the conversion and privatisation and did not pay any compensation to the social and state communities. According to the provisions of the State Audit Act, revisions of the conversion and privatisation and examination of documents, decisions, accounts, contracts and acts on the basis of which the conversion and privatisation was carried out, as well as other documents, in order to determine whether the process of conversion and privatisation had led to the implementation of the provisions of the Law on the Conversion of Social Enterprises, the Law on Privatisation, the Law on Social Capital or the Specific Law. In the sense of the Revision, Conversion and Privatisation Act, revision of conversion and privatisation and examination of all these documents. The objectives of the revision, conversion and privatisation were to protect the Constitution of protected values, the overall legal order, public morality, and to achieve the objectives of the prescribed provisions of Article 1. The Privatisation Act in such a way as to determine whether the privatisation process has led to the implementation of the provisions of the Privatisation Act. Since the entry into force of the Revision Act, from May 2001 to September 2004, the audit has covered 1556 social enterprises. The completed work report on the implementation of the audit, conversion and privatisation shall contain a description of the basic procedures and audits, as well as the criteria for assessing the conversion and revision procedures of privatisation. As you know in the privatisation process, the State's revision of the conversion solution has been established by 2911 social enterprises that have established capital of 28.2 billion German marks. Based on the Revision Act, the conversion of privatisation, as I said, was revised by 1556 social enterprises whose share capital was 24.4 billion or 86.7% of the underlying capital that was even in conversion and privatisation. The audit found that, among other things, the underlying capital in... 965 million marks representing about 3% of their core capital related to unrated assets with less estimated assets. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] By revolarising the loans paid, i.e. overestimated land area obligations of 2 million 774 thousand 577 square meters, facilities of 89 265 square meters for which the audit could not determine the price. The main capital of the audited companies was reduced by 3.93 and 3 billion 930 million, respectively, of German marks and 16.1%. The number of employees in the audited societies was reduced by 386 675 and 69%, respectively, or respected colleagues still nearly 100,000 unemployed lost their jobs more than we now have the unemployed. The bankruptcy procedure was opened in 345 companies. The development programme did not achieve 64% of the companies, and in part only 20.5% of the society. Irregularities in the process of conversion and privatisation due to these things found in 1481 companies or 95.2% of audited entities. In the revision process, the State Audit Office identified 1936 irregularities relating to the transformation and privatisation and business processes of the company resulting from the conversion. Irregularities refer to conversion processes. Part of the asset is not included in the assessment. The demand for business banks has been transformed into shares based on the revolutionisation of already paid loans. The recapitalisation was not carried out in accordance with the conversion programme. The funds invested were not purposely spent. The privatisation process included among other things the following irregularities. The companies financed shareholders from their funds in the purchase of shares. To acquire their own shares, no legal requirements were met or to clarify you know. With your money, you bought your own money, that society. Management rights were used on the basis of transferred and unpaid shares of small shareholders, assets not included in the programme were sold, the corresponding dividend was not included in favour of the Croatian Privatisation Fund from the title of shares belonging to the State or the fund managed by the Fund. After that, the resolutions were not carried out in accordance with the recovery programme, etc. etc. Of course, all this requires the necessary taking of certain actions and taking the necessary measures. Of course, it follows that there have been different forms and under the old Penal Code of Criminal Procedures, such as abuse of powers in economic business, unconscious work in the service of law, violation of the Securities Act, unconscious economic business, conclusion of harmful contracts and other criminal offences. What do we propose with this law? We propose this law to make a one-time tax on the property of natural and legal persons accounting for all the assets acquired or acquired during and in connection with the conversion and privatisation or the means made on the basis of these procedures acquired in business with the Republic of the Croatian Unit of Regional Self-Government and Local Self-Government. Then, acquired in dealing with legal persons in which the Republic of Croatia and the units of local regional self-government were exclusive or majority shareholder or... The tax on property under this law would have to be the property if it was acquired directly or indirectly from a source for which a valid legal basis of acquisition cannot be established in the taxation procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Assets acquired directly or indirectly from sources which have not been taxed according to the rules which were in force at the time of the acquisition of those sources. And of course, acquired property with special benefits that her acquirer had. We also suggest that the so-called application of this tax be applied. one-off tax and that it is paid in the following amounts at the following rates. Up to 800,000 to pay the kuna 35% and over to pay the next 800 000 to millions and three hundred thousand kunas to pay 70,000 kuna plus 40% above, as a tax above the amount of 800,000 kuna. From a million three hundred to a million eight hundred thousand kuna to pay 150 thousand kuna one-time plus 50% of taxes over a million and three hundred thousand kuna. That between a million and eight hundred thousand to two million and three hundred thousand kunas are paid 250,000 kuna plus 60% over a million and eight hundred thousand kunas of acquired property. That between 2 million and 300 million and 2 million and 800,000 kunas are paid 370,000 kunas plus 70% to the amount of over 2 million and 300 thousand kunas and that above average, above the value of 2 million 800 thousand kunas is paid 510 thousand kunas once, and that more than the amount of 2 million and 800 thousand kunas are paid taxes of 800, 80 percent. Who are the bounds? All those listed and prescribed in Articles 1 and 2 of this Law. And finally, we here propose on the one hand how to carry out the collection procedure of these taxes, how to determine the actual state of affairs, what to provide through 5 years of previous issues and through evidence, then providing evidence, insurance measures, how to make a solution and possible protection of rights against competent courts with transitional and partial, transitional and final provisions that need to be ensured that, at least with a one-time tax, we ensure that we collect some of our incomes and how much we put into a situation to deprive the largest part of our citizens in the Republic of Croatia who are, in this way, deceived by so-called. tycoon privatisations and conversions that have been carried out so far in the Republic of Croatia. That's why we invite you to vote and support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80188	Thank you. The committees? I'm opening a debate. Representatives' club. Dear Representative Walter Drandic. He's gone. He's losing his word. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a Single Property Tax Act. Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: no proposal for a Single Property Tax Act proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club is adopted for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and in the reports of the working bodies. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 66 votes for, 6 abstentions, 10 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80191	Mr. President, this proposal for a conclusion sent by the Club of Representatives of the SDP was to actually be referred by the President of the Parliament to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and this Parliament to ensure that all acts adopted by the Croatian Parliament were carried out. The Croatian Parliament has prescribed by its acts, i.e. the conclusions, obligations relating to the adoption of certain laws, derogations and enforcement of the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament on the removal of irregularities, illegality and illegality in the privatisation and conversion that took place in the Republic of Croatia, which was determined by the State Audit. But since there is obviously no interest in discussing it, and it is clear that the ruling party and the ruling coalition do not want to debate among other things consciously, with the desire not to correct the irregularities that occurred in the transformation and privatisation, we will not further explain these issues. But we will only ask the question of the credibility of this Parliament and its desire to vote for the implementation of its own actions in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-14-0.u80192	Thank you. The committee's reporters? I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative, Vice-President of the House Mato Arlovic. You're giving up the debate. Dear Representative Walter Drandic. He's gone. He's losing his word. It's a closing word. I'm closing the debate. And now we could move on to a vote on some procedural proposals. We'll continue the session tomorrow at 9.30. Tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with a debate on two points that we have put into the agenda today, and then there will be a vote on all the remaining points, including these. Proposal for a conclusion binding on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to propose a Law on sanctioning irregularities set out in the State Audit Office reports in the revision, conversion and privatisation process. The proposed conclusion is the Club of Representatives of the SDP. I am voting on the following conclusion: the proposed conclusions are not accepted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 66 votes in favour, 7 abstentions and 12 against the accepted proposed conclusion.
