ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54652	Your Honor, I don't think that's the same subject. The defence and national security strategy only partially refers to this report on the state of the armed forces, and these are quite other ideas, so quite another, we can't put it in the same basket, but if everyone insists we'll accept that part, but it's not exactly the same matter, because the strategies are quite different from the reports.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54653	Comrade Kovačević, part is tang.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54654	It's just part of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54655	But part of it is tangled for one reason of economics, I suggest you do.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54656	I'm not saying, here's what we're gonna do for the others, but I'm saying it's not exactly the same. It's the difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54657	Yes, is there any objection to a united debate? There isn't. Then we're going to a united debate. First, this proposal for an annual defence system preparedness report. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Defence Minister, Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54658	Dear Mr. President, distinguished ladies and gentlemen representing the Croatian Parliament. In front of you is the Report on the preparedness of the defence system, the implementation of the Staff Policy and the overall state of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia with the Report on the implementation of the defence plan and defence preparations. This report shows the current state of defence system with a view to changes resulting from the latest report submitted in October 2004 which discussed this esteemed House until the end of 2005. It consists of 7 main parts in which individual units are specifically processed in accordance with the internal organisation and jurisdiction of the main bodies, the Ministry of Defence and the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. The first part of the report shows the security environment and the current threats and risks to the Republic of Croatia. The second part concerns defence policy and planning, whose component is international defence co-operation and the report on the implementation of the defence plan and defence preparations. Next, parts and reports on the defence preparedness of the armed forces, human material resources management, research and development of defence systems, end with the financing of the defence system. In accordance with the way NATO countries work in the Ministry of Defence, we adopted a method of management of the defence system through the annual guidelines of defence planning. Among the most important guidelines we have come up with are guidelines for developing a strategic review of defence and long-term development plan of the armed forces, followed by guidelines for preparing a new establishment of the Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces, coordinating national activities to meet the criteria for NATO membership, strengthening missions with the European Union and NATO, continuing participation in NATO-led ISAP operation in Afghanistan and UN peacekeeping missions, developing military capabilities to strengthen national security and comply with NATO, training of declared units for peacekeeping operations, reform of human resources management systems, planning and adoption of new personnel, further implementation of adopted standards of professional development, intensive learning of foreign languages, transition of military personnel, closure and re-use of military properties, and preparatory actions for the establishment of coastal guards. Currently, no direct conventional military threat has been observed against the Republic of Croatia or has been expected over a long period of time, although despite the trend of gradual stabilisation, there is still the possibility of the emergence and spread of instability in the wider environment. The Republic of Croatia is exposed to the risks of possible consequences of natural and human activities caused by disasters and there is a likelihood of using the defence system's ability to prevent the removal and mitigation of the consequences of these risks. In line with the defence strategy, the Ministry of Defence developed a strategic defence review aimed at resolving the existing situation and directing further reforms of the armed forces and the entire defence system. The Strategic Defence Review identified the need for further reforms through the development of new capabilities and the adaptation of the defence system for participation in the collective and cooperative security of Euro-Atlantic integration. We have established a new systematization of the missions and tasks of the armed forces on the basis of which we have defined the necessary capabilities and elements of the fighting forces for the future structure of the armed forces. We continue to reduce the size of the Department of Defence's administrative department and the organisational separation of activities that are not closely related to the management of the defence. A relatively small organisation is being set up to manage the defence system effectively and economically. The development of a long-term plan for the development of the armed forces is under way, which determines the military capabilities that we will develop and maintain in the long term. In the field of civil defence, positive shifts have been made in the perception of the importance of defence preparations and the process of their systematic editing and development has begun. The trend of international defence cooperation has continued whose main objectives are to support the accession of the Republic of Croatia to Euro-Atlantic security and defence integration, support for strengthening and further development of the defence system of the Republic of Croatia, and in particular the capabilities of the armed forces, support for defence reforms, the development of good neighbourly relations and regional cooperation, and the contribution to international security of participation in peace and humanitarian missions. The Republic of Croatia continued and strengthened its participation in the ISAF operation in Afghanistan. On 1 July 2005, the Croatian Parliament adopted a Decision extending Croatia's participation in ISAF from 50 to 150 members of the armed forces. We are currently actively participating in 16 UN peacekeeping missions, eight of which take place on the African continent. As the most individual achievement in peacekeeping missions, we can elect Croatia's General Dragutin Repinc to serve as commander of the UN peacekeeping mission in India and Pakistan. Training and training in the armed forces focuses on achieving interoperability with NATO through the achievement and maintenance of individuals' readiness and units declared for NATO-led operations and exercises, and on developing the capabilities of armed forces to assist civilian institutions in the event of natural or environmental accidents and disasters. A high level of coordination has been achieved in the implementation of joint training of several branches and tribes, which ultimately improves and economics the training of the armed forces as a whole. The logistics system is structured to implement logistics support in stationary conditions and has limited capabilities for the projection of forces in providing logistics support in field conditions for the time being. Despite limited capabilities, the military logistics system successfully provides logistical support to members and troops of the armed forces involved in international activities. The average age of military facilities and infrastructure is between 40 and 50 years. Their technologically outdated equipment and installations require great material resources and human maintenance efforts. Further reconstruction of the armed forces is aimed at reducing the total number of military facilities and grouping them to reduce maintenance costs. Armed forces face many years of problems of obsolescence, inequality and slow renewal of existing combat techniques. Through the process of reaching the required numerical size of the armed forces, most of the fighting equipment will become excess. The Ministry of Defence will, by retaining in a material structure than the standardised more modern fighting equipment and by writing off outdated equipment, partially solve the existing problem. For example, T-55 tanks will significantly reduce the average age of military tanks with the required number of M-84 tanks. Normally, most of the problem will be dealt with essentially only by modernising all branches of the armed forces. Priorities in the modernisation of the Croatian Land Army are the equipment of troops by combat armored infantry vehicles and all units with appropriate communication and information equipment. The priorities of modernization of Croatian Air Force and anti-aircraft are the full implementation of the new radar system in the project "Nebo", the acquisition of new school aircraft for initial and selection training, the purchase of multi-purpose helicopters, the purchase of aircraft for medium distance transport of 3 thousand to 5 thousand kilometers, and the launch of a project to introduce a multi-purpose combat aircraft. The priorities of modernization of the Croatian Navy are the construction and introduction of a multi-purpose and coastal patrol ship and the further gradual modernisation of existing ships and funds to carry out the regular tasks of the Croatian Navy. During 2004 and 2005, the Ministry of Defence successfully implemented several important projects to modernise and equip the armed forces to raise and strengthen the capacity of the entire defence system. One of them is already mentioned the project "The Sky", which has armed forces equipped with radar systems to control Croatia's airspace. During 2005, a project to equip armed forces with military field vehicles was successfully implemented. Modernization of 16 helicopters with modern communication, navigation and identification equipment has been completed. As part of the preparation of the armed forces for participation in NATO's PfP operations, equipment has been carried out for the military police units involved in the ISAF international operation. In order to improve the lives and work of a member of the Kabul mission, agreed and completed the necessary work for the addition of accommodation containers. The project "Ales" was implemented through the launch of the production of radio devices in the Republic of Croatia through the Split Maritime Centre of Electronics. A technical documentation as well as an environmental impact study has been developed for the project of type-based stockpiles for lethal paints at the "Eugen Quaternik" training site in Slunj. Staff management shall be carried out through four main programming areas. Assisting staff, professional development, staff support and staffing. The Ministry of Defence started by obtaining new junior staff and making plans for staff reception, we launched a public tender and conducted the selection and reception of trainees and candidates for officers. We have announced the need to accept candidates for soldiers, conduct the selection and reception of the active military service based on the training carried out. The staff procurement programme came into life in 2005 as a permanent process carried out in accordance with long-term plans and needs of the defence system. In order to improve the implementation of the military personnel procurement programme set up in the armed forces, the selection centre for candidates for the active military service. As part of the programme of professional development, the rules are laid down by professional standards for the development of active military personnel and the procedure for determining the inability of their further professional development. The standards are established on the basis of the relevant objective parameters of professional development. And that is: the year of life, the previous civilian and the subsequent growing military education of the time spent in the act and the successful conduct of various duties, particularly the duty of higher rank. The adoption of a promotion plan for 2005 also started the process of constitutionally promoting officers and officers in order to reach the optimal structure of the active military staff and to make assumptions for their full professional development. For persons who are not able to meet the prescribed standards, the inability to continue professional development shall be determined and those who have 20 years of insurance training shall be placed on the list of candidates for isolation. The target team is mostly older personnel who qualify for retirement, staff whose health skills do not meet the criteria for staying in the active military service and staff of inadequate professional training. The implementation of staff decommissioning has introduced a plan for quarterly separation and the possibility of temporary detention of the necessary staff to ensure the functioning of the system. Mechanisms for effective management of staff-separation processes have been built. The planned allocation for 2004 was successfully realised by the total allocation of 5 000 162 persons, and the plan for 2005 was achieved in the 95 per cent separation of 2 000 680 people. The staff-separation process was followed by a programme of transition and collection of separate staff... giving excellent results, which are an integral part of the primary information, the implementation of transition workshops, professional training, counselling and assistance in employment, and the incentive severance system for new employment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As part of the measures to attract and retain quality staff, special attention shall be paid to the development of a staff support system for the purpose of raising their quality of life during military service. The current material status of military personnel requires further improvements in terms of raising their quality of life. The problem of large maintenance costs of outdated military facilities and other infrastructures is tackled primarily by reducing their number by grouping them at appropriate locations and modernising them. For the financing of the defence system in particular part of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004, an amount of 1.81% of the estimated gross social product was established and for the activities of the Ministry of Defence financed outside the financial plan of the Ministry of Defence, fire protection, loans, reconstruction costs and a peacekeeping mission an additional amount of 0.25% of the gross social product. For the financing of the defence system in the specific part of the State budget for 2005, an amount of 1.61 was established and an additional position on the allocated Ministry of Finance 0.19%. In particular, it should be noted that for the salaries and remuneration of employees, the amount of 73.7% was planned in 2004. A similar percentage was 72% in 2005. It was only in the budget structure for 2006 that we managed to significantly reduce the share of staff costs and it was estimated to be about 62%. The adoption of new strategies in the area of national security and defence and the long-term plan for the development of the armed forces requires the adaptation of the existing legislative necessary for the need to continue the transformation of the Croatian defence system. This applies in particular to the adaptation of the Law on Defence, the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the Law on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the Police, Civil Protection, civil servants and subsistence officers in peace operations and other activities abroad, and the adoption of a special law on the closure and replacement of military properties under the Croatian Coast Guard Act. Despite the need for further reforms, the defence system of the Republic of Croatia is today capable of fulfilling its basic constitutional task: deterring attacks on the Republic of Croatia, protecting its sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity and the security of citizens. To reach the stage of international defence cooperation, participation in international peace missions and international military exercises under NATO PFP further strengthens the defence capacity of the Republic of Croatia and the training and training of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54659	Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54660	Thank you very much. So I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that there's a full defense system preparedness report in front of us, because in this entire report, I've heard nothing from the Minister himself, what kind of willingness we have at sea. There's nothing in this entire report about the Navy. As a man from the sea, I'm interested in what's in the sea and in the sea about safety. And maybe if the minister told us the basis of what act this Parliament or government is, I don't know, working on forming a Coast Guard within the Department of Defense.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54661	Thank you. On behalf of the HSP Club on the proposal for a conclusion on the commitment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the proposal for a strategy in the area of defence of national security, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54662	Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. The issue of defence and the issue of national security for us at the Croatian Party's Club of Rights has never been a political issue nor will I believe in and most of you here present. It was precisely because of the fact that we knew from the report we had at the end of 2004 and it was 2003 that the situation in the armed forces was bad and that there were essentially a huge number of problems. On the other hand, we knew the situation in the area of national security, and only ourselves are we witnessing a threat to the general security of citizens. We know our own ways. The defence plan of the state was also neither adopted nor a long-term plan for the development of the armed forces was adopted, which is the most important thing that should be preceded after the strategies by both the normative part and the reconstruction of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the defence system of the Republic of Croatia. We can't be satisfied with such a situation. In fact, we believe that it is high time to do something about it, and for that reason, in September of last year, we submitted a request to the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, we gave the basis to consider and review a valid defence strategy and a valid national security strategy so that the Committee, as a competent parliamentary body, could then deal with and propose either to the Government or to the plenary session that this process, or this important matter, should finally begin to be resolved. Unfortunately, the Committee did not consider it appropriate to consider it at all, and therefore we from the Croatian Party Club of Rights were forced and we reached a conclusion at the plenary session. In short, regarding the assessment of the situation and the basic issues that we propose to regulate the conclusion, namely the way in which the area of national security and defence is arranged in the Republic of Croatia requires studio examination. That's what we saw the Minister of Defence on behalf of the government say he agrees with that finding. In this context, it should be analysed and valorised to the extent that existing solutions in this area are both strategic and normative and primarily operational, aimed at supporting the protection of national interests and values. And without particularly methodological research, it can be concluded that the strategic documents in the Republic of Croatia are dominated by... a strategy. The Constitution and the Defence Act have established that the National Security Strategy, the Defence Strategy and the military strategy are being developed. All these strategies have been adopted and have been in force for several years, so since 2002, based on the decision of the previous coalition authority, and are practically not applicable to the decritation of the administration and policy, and it points to the real unresponsibility of the most responsible factors for the systematic organisation of the national security and defence work. In particular, there is a problem with the relationship between these strategic documents because they match more or less content. Some of the documents mentioned have become part of the system of defence planning of the Republic of Croatia only after momentum. In fact, such strategic documents according to the scope and what we have are mainly designed only by large forces or by states that, by accepting this concept, have sought to obtain special US support, for example. on their way to membership, the Partnership for Peace Programme or NATO alliance which, unfortunately, we have accepted. For example, the U.S. National Security Strategy is a unilaterally adopted document that provides, in a function of protection of national interests, the legitimacy of the projection of its own military force at any point of globe, i.e. enables its own soldiers to act legitimately in that function, no matter where they are stationed in circumstances where the United States brings policy on such a type of engagement. In the defence strategy of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Defence Strategy defined Croatia as the concept of individual defence, meaning a comprehensive defence of national interests and values primarily with the capacities and capabilities of its own defence system until foreign aid is excluded and expected from friendly states. The possibility of joining the NATO alliance was also opened, but NATO was already at the Washington Summit earlier in the fight for its own survival after the end of the Cold War and... the non-compliance on the future of the alliance has adopted a new strategic concept that serves the alliance as a guideline for defining detailed policies and military plans in the future. [[You don't understand.]] Once the threat of the general war in Europe has been found virtually gone, new security challenges such as ethnic conflicts, human rights violations, political and economic instability, the spread of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons, organised crime and human trafficking are defined. The change in the source of threats has also changed the strategy and it now lies on a comprehensive approach to security which combines political and military resources both within the alliance and with other partner countries that accept the objectives of the alliance, and is achieved through the implementation of tasks, the preservation of transatlantic ties, the maintenance and further development of military potency, the development of European identity security within the alliances, the prevention of conflict and crisis management before knocking on the door of the Euro-Atlantic area, the development of partnership, cooperation and... the expansion, control of arms, disarmament and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. At a summit in Prague in 2002, which will remain remembered as a summit of transformations, it was decided to launch a study on the performance of defence alliances of urban projects, support the development of chemical-biological-radiological-nuclear protection and centres for weapons and mass destruction. NATO's civilian crisis planning has also been founded, and it is particularly indicated that the need to strengthen civil defence against chemical and biological weapons. An abandoned old command structure is an appropriate age of cold war and a decision to increase the ability to react quickly, improve the mobility of the city... A particularly significant decision focused on improving defence capabilities in areas relevant for the management of crises outside the NATO area requiring European member states to create new or improve existing capabilities in the field of chemical-biological-radiological-nuclear protection and defence, air surveillance, command, surveillance and communication, as well as combat efficiency, including precise guidance, ammunition, strategic air transport, air refuelling, deployment of combat support, logistics. [[You don't understand.]] NATO's rapid reaction force consists of a Navy air component with 21 thousand high-speed combat preparedness troops should be fully peritative by 15 November 2006, meaning by this year, to conduct a full spectrum of new attack operations. The special problem is the relationship between the Croatian strategic documents and the NATO Strategic Concept, because they are inconsistencies. For these reasons, according to NATO's instructions, a special group from the MRLs started making another document last year, which is a strategic defence review. The document, called the Strategic Defence Review, was meant to show NATO that the Republic of Croatia is determined to fully reform its own defence system, primarily the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia according to the requirements and standards imposed on it for years through the accession process of the membership action plan and other mechanisms applying bilateral relations. These include a twist in the statistical concept of the Republic of Croatia and 360 degrees from individual to collective defence, presenting that the Republic of Croatia is ready to accept NATO's concept and active participation in activities under the leadership of the Alliance in accordance with the political decisions of the supranational institution, which directly raises the question of the exercise of national defence authority and compliance with the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia in this area. It should therefore be discussed in detail how much the document supports national sovereignty and independence in political decision-making on matters of interest for national security, and if... [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54663	My colleagues and colleagues can't be heard, please. Enable fellow MPs to uninterrupted...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54664	Look, the situation is clearly clear that the issue of defence and national security is not of interest to the MPs, you are interested in the issue of trading in terms of mandates. So it is high time for Croatia to address the issue of defence and national security strategy in the following way, that the defence strategy defines what the Constitution says, which is that the defence of sovereignty of Croatia is provided through its defence system and the Armed Forces, and the second is the situation of entering NATO alliance and what Croatia needs to be fulfilled for NATO accession. So we need to coordinate whether we're going to have individual defenses or collective defenses. The defense strategy says we have individual defenses, and in the strategic review we go to collective defenses. So there are already these concept differences of 360 degrees. If my colleague Kramaric knew what the strategy was, then he would know that... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54665	Please don't let the experts add their comments.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54666	That the strategy precedes the creation of the Defence Act and all other documents that are important for the formation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and for the very defence system of the Republic of Croatia. If it is believed that it is intended to protect national security, that we must have a stable defence, then we must move towards making new documents. In what period will the government do that? It's not particularly important to us, but it's important that we no longer wait in this area. Whether it'll be in six months, seven, but obviously it needs to be done. The second part is very important to the issue of national security. National security in this country should be based on three important factors with the defence preparedness of the state, with Armed Forces, and that part is direct. Croatian citizen, Croatian police, intelligence community and ultimately regular entire government. That's the part that guarantees that at all times they'll know everything that's going on. This means that if a Croatian citizen has confidence in the Croatian police, that is, the Intelligence Community, then the services and the police will come to all the data that are important in terms of preventive action, prevention and anything else. On this trail, we suggest that it be also based, so the backbone of the new strategy for the defence of national security. But in this part of the National Security Strategy, it is normal to make radical changes and organisational, both systematic and in the Ministry of Interior and within the intelligence community itself. To act in harmony, to act as a whole and to act in the interest of Croatian citizens. We know for ourselves how many different affairs they've had in the intelligence community, none of them have been enlightened today. And it automatically happens that Croatian citizens do not trust in the functioning, both the police and the intelligence community. And then there is no direct communication between the Croatian citizens, the police, the intelligence community. Because that way everything can be prevented and regulated. So we're in this situation now that we don't have a defense plan, when we don't have a long-term development plan for the Armed Forces, when we ourselves know that these strategies that we unfortunately have are dead letters on paper because they're not actually implemented. However, I'm saying, we have a defense strategy one solution, and in a strategic defence review we have a completely different solution. Therefore, in any serious, normal country, it would begin with the creation of a new defence and national security strategy, and then the system would be agreed and all of this regulated legally. Here, that's briefly in the first part of our proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54667	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54668	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear Representative Kovacevic said he had addressed the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security with the same topic and that he did not want to discuss it. This is incorrect for the simple reason that I, as chairman of the Committee, asked for the statement of the resolution ministry, the Ministry of Defence, received the answer, with this answer I met the Committee and therefore did not continue to conduct the debate. Because the Committee was just like here, that a defence strategy for the Republic of Croatia is under way.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54669	The Chairs of the Committee, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, both in the case of one and the other proposals for reports and conclusions.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54670	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. If I don't read two reports, I'll brief you on our 57th session...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54671	I would ask that you report not briefly but entirely.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54672	Yeah, yeah, with a conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54673	Oh, yeah?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54674	Yeah, yeah, that's for sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54675	You said it briefly.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54676	Yes, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security discussed at the 57th session held on 24 January 2006 the proposal for an annual report on the preparedness of the defence system, the implementation of the staff policy on the overall situation in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, and also discussed the proposal for a conclusion on the commitment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to draw up a proposal for a strategy in the area of defence and national security submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Association of HSP, acting on 18 October 2005. So we just said it was about the annual report first. In the opening statement, the representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia explained to the members of the Committee an annual report giving an objective picture of the state of defence system and the Armed Forces in the Republic of Croatia. After the debate was held, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Annual Report on the preparedness of the defence system, the implementation of the Staff Policy and the overall situation in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, in the text proposed by the Proposer. In the opening statement on the obligations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the development of a proposal for a strategy in the field of national security, the representative of the HSP Representatives Club explained his proposal for the development of a new defence strategy and national security strategy. In his debate, the Committee also held the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 14 December 2005, which was not supported by the HSP Club proposal. Namely, the development of a defence strategy proposal is already under way until the applicant presented clear and concrete reasons why the same is sought for the development of a new national security strategy. After the debate on the HSP Club proposal was held, the Committee concluded by a majority vote. Firstly, the proposal for a conclusion on the commitment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to draw up a proposal for strategies in the area of defence of national security is not accepted. Secondly, the proposal for a conclusion referred to in point 1 represents a positive impulse to review the existing national security strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54677	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. SDP advocates' club, respected representative Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54678	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Allow me, at the beginning of the review that I will give on behalf of the SDP Club, to make several principled remarks on this Report that are not most important when we talk about defence preparedness, but are certainly important and point to some relations between the Government and the Council of the Republic of Croatia. This government report, which is ahead of us, the Defense System preparedness report, the Armed Forces situation and the like, covers a two-year period. You could ask yourself, ask why the 2004 Report is so late or you could ask why the 2004 Report was even skipped or the question could be asked why you have agreed on a single report for 2 years. Why is there no mention of it in this report, why is it that if there are justified reasons, and what does that mean? Since all these answers to these questions that I asked in the report itself, and not even in the explanation that we had just heard from the Minister as a representative of the Government, I think it is important to conclude that the Government has failed to fulfil the obligations to the Parliament arising from the Defence Act. However, although it is appropriate to discuss defence preparedness for 2004, it is not acceptable to take for granted and agree that this report, which includes the period 2004 and 2005, is the list of all that happened during that year 2000 or the largest part of what was happening in the defence system, that this report, or this obligation to submit the Report to the Assembly and that the purpose for which that obligation was introduced into the law in this way, is fulfilled. The second principle note refers to the fact that this report also contains a report on the state of defence preparations, however, the law also speaks of something different. He predicts that the government should submit a special report on defence preparations. Given that the report itself clearly states that this is contained in this, I suppose, that the Government does not intend to carry out its obligation to the Parliament, which is not only formal but which should allow these national important issues to be discussed not only within the framework of the profession or within the executive authority or the Office of the President but also at parliamentary level to strengthen and strengthen national security, defence preparedness, defence preparation and all that is of great importance to the independence, independence and sustainability of the Republic of Croatia. The third principle note refers to the general impression, what can be read or extracted from the content of this Report and, in fact, when you read all of this well, when you think about it, when you bring it into context with the objective that this Report should be fulfilled, then you will see that this report should bear the name of the work report rather than reports on the preparedness of the defence system. I think that something should be changed in the concept of this Report, I think that the Assembly should not be concerned with any affairs and details that fall exclusively into the power of the Executive Authority, in the power of the Ministry or Government, but rather with the relevant information that will allow us to really determine whether the willingness, defence preparedness of the system is good, bad or satisfactory and that it can therefore, on the basis of this, also in some other key moments, such as the adoption of a budget or the adoption of any strategic documents, has been a little bit of an initiative to give our qualitative contribution, and this is how I think that behind this Report, although the report is largely, comprehensively, has a lot of information, I think that it has missed essentially what the Assembly needs to discuss. Well, now let me start with some concrete remarks. In the part that speaks of threats and risks, the day is a very good assessment that points to a low probability of conventional threats, but therefore the increase of those so-called. Asymmetric threats, it warns of the need to develop new answers, of new threats, but that's all. Such a good assessment of the threat is not followed by guidance or recognition of the direction of long-term development from this defensive readiness in further parts of the Report almost no word. It is said in one broad context, the context of a reform that includes everything and everything, but the reform itself will certainly not satisfy this reorientation of defence preparedness or forces from conventional to these asymmetric threats, or overcoming these asymmetric threats. Part of the report on the defence plan contains a whole series of information from which, unfortunately, only one conclusion can be drawn. The defence plan is still under way, according to the Report, discussions are being held, groups and subgroups that unfortunately have not made God knows what or at least have not come to the final results, is mentioned in the defence plan section even the Ministry of the Family who really don't know what this sentence has to do with this topic, because it says a protocol has been made for dealing with people in crisis. Right, if we were to talk about, in the broadest context of the defence system's readiness, then we should talk not only about the family ministry but there should be a lot more reports on the entire parts of other sectors entering the defence preparedness system about which there is nothing in this report again. In the part that speaks of defence preparations, this fact that the plan does not exist is being defended and determined. There is no defence plan, but what is most important is there is no document necessary to coordinate the action of the civilian defence component carrier with the military component. The military component in this Work Report shows that something is happening and happening to me, however we evaluate it, and as unsatisfactory as they may be, at the speed and pace of these changes, but in this second part of the civilian components, nothing or at least in this Report has a single word. And what if, in fact, the civil component is spoken of and mentioned as only a component whose importance is recognised, the authorities, the economy, the social activities, that is what it is, and the entire report clearly sees the exact opposite. There is no recognition, no support for the civilian component, for this devastating fact responsibility does not bear and cannot be borne by the Ministry of Defence which is the nominal holder of this Report, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has prepared it, but certainly is borne by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the President of Sanader who is very successful in building towers of visibility or progress in the NATO headquarters in Brussels, but who, together with the government, has persistently ignored all concrete weaknesses and problems that characterize the state and readiness and military and civil components of the defence. It's about, we all know, a poor material and humane state and a low level of defense preparedness. That's not the problem. However, the problem is on a completely different level. And we as a political opposition will not criticise this fact about the poor material and human condition. We simply do not want to be political demagogues, and we will not accuse this government of the current situation. However, we will call this government very strongly and continue to call for what is also fully clear from this report. During the two-year reporting period covered by this reporting period, it is not necessary and I will repeat a loud step in raising the defence preparedness and overall state of the armed forces. Not only the armed forces, but the defence system of the Republic of Croatia. The scope of international cooperation should be supported. There are quite a few chapters about this in the report. However, it is not clear from the report what the interest of the Republic of Croatia is and why we are involved in all bilateral or multilateral activities. We are afraid that the real benefits of all efforts and costs will not be due to quite unacceptable, allow a harsh word, a bit of nakaradic political and publicly presented views of government members such as that we are in a Central European Peace Support Initiative so as not to be politically beaten in Southeast Europe or the Balkans. When we talk about defense preparedness, it's completely irrelevant. It is a politically important finding but in the context of defence preparations and the defence preparedness of our participation in all and medium-European and South-European and Balkan and all other initiatives, it has nothing to do with it. It is evident from this that at government level, neither is recognised nor concerned about what all these international activities mean for the preservation of peace and security of Croatia. It is also seen here today that it is even said that it is the preparatory activities to join the Euro-Atlantic alliance or NATO alliance and that it does not seem to recognize at all how much these bilateral or multilateral activities are on this thorny region, in which we are important and important, both politically and defencely securely. They can politically provide us with a leading role in this region. By doing so, we can be more appreciated and appreciated in some other broader contexts and safely that one joint cooperation between the enemies today reduces the possibility of any new disturbances in relations and armed conflicts. When it comes to the combat preparedness of the armed forces and reports, all aspects of combat preparedness such as management, command, training, training, mobilisation, logistics, etc. the significant impact of insufficient and additionally reduced financial resources. When we of the SDP talked about it when the budget was being passed, then we were even insulted by such or such obstructions. I've experienced one personal indiscretion and an insult from the Secretary of Defense I don't know what caused it, but it's now in the report that's been established. It says explicitly, it's not my structure or my words, it says in the report. If there continues to be a reduction in the share of funds in the gross social product for defence preparedness and national security, then every year we will have an increasingly poor level of defence preparedness or readiness of the defence system. How little money there is in that system is seen from almost the entire report because it is clearly recognised that over the past two years there have been almost no major shifts and steps to patch up holes, to do what is necessary, which must be done but some development processes for this simply have no money. I'm going to mention only one little bit insignificant example but quite an important example. For example, it is said in the report on the state of the murderous assets, so-called. UBS. This is exactly the same, the section speaks of data even proposals that should be done exactly the same as in the 2003 report. It's a small but quite serious problem in the armed forces and I'm guessing since there was no movement that there was no means to do so. And it simply needs to be taken into account as well as many other necessary needs about what needs to be done and what cannot be financed in this way. Part of the report on the modernisation and equipment of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia and the management of human resources points to major problems that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not dealt with, there are no long-term development plans. There's just some vague political message, vague political stories about what we're going to keep under the Ministry of Defense. So we're going to keep all three branches and how much it costs, who's going to pay for it, which we're going to finance, on what deadline, in which terms, where there's not a word about it, there's nothing written about it in this report or in any other report. How much to read the only major purchase during this reporting period was the purchase of cargo vehicles or trucks. We have read a lot about this in the paper, and it is interesting that this big step of modernization, which could otherwise possibly be praised, is hardly mentioned. Perhaps because almost all regulations have been violated in the procurement process, perhaps because everything points to the favor of one supplier, perhaps because everything points to corruption or perhaps because the trucks have not yet been delivered even though all deadlines have passed, even though they are 100% paid by advance at the end of 2003. All of this happened at the end of 2003. All this is probably not the first or last time that something like this will happen in the system of state administration. But allow me, I think this House needs to know where those trucks are and why they haven't been delivered yet. It's at least a minimum of what we should be given as information. Human resources were and should be the most important focus on the readiness of the defence system and should therefore pay close attention in this area and planning in this area. Processes marking the reporting period and relating to human resources point to a serious problem. The reform of the system, which was planned in the first phase as quantitative detachment due to the rapid initial reduction of then too many staff, did not grow to the second phase of qualitative repair of the structure... Professional development standards should be revised because the military remains because of these standards, because of a whole series of important and key professions that are not strictly military but are very important. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The standard and material position of staff should not only be advocated. The money needs to be set aside for him. The programme for the procurement of persons referred to in the report is only part of what could and should have been done. That's certainly positive, but not enough. The defence departments are once again mastered by old habits, framed against criteria. It rewards those who sin, sin over service or law such as those who have confessed to stealing, alienation of the gun in Dračevac, or as is known to the case of Cacia where an officer who, for months, has not been awarded a professional pension, and those who work for the benefit of the system which is not always in accordance with the interests of those who also manage the system. Research and development are still dropping. Funding is problematic. About the manual composition, whether there will be or will not be an announcement, which is also bad for the current calling or gathering of handbooks into the system. A communication campaign for NATO does not exist despite all the successes that are going this way, and our public will hardly support joining NATO. And finally missing a final conclusion on the state of the armed forces, is that good, bad or worrying? What we can conclude for ourselves is that it is satisfactory for some minimum defence, but certainly bad for what we should have in Croatia, given the abilities and needs that we have in, of that system. Which we have in the system, which we need and which we expect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54679	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. First respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54680	Your Honor, Mr. President. I am correcting two incorrect allegations of a respected colleague, Zeljke Antunovic. The first refers to what kind of family ministry and intergenerational solidarity of defenders can play a role in the development of a defence plan? It can be big because the defence plan document one, one of the documents is also a plan for the functioning of social activities where the Ministry has jurisdiction and should play a role. Another incorrect allegation about nothing being made for modernization. It's done. Two T-55 tanks were purchased last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54681	Two tanks, Mr. President. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. [[Two tanks, Mr. President.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54682	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's my colleague, she's absolutely wrong to say that it doesn't matter; Central European, South European, possibly Balkan participation, association, co-operation. As far as the Balkans are concerned, we have had enough cooperation with one part of the Balkans because we've had too many joint military exercises in the past decade with combat ammunition, and as far as the trucks are concerned, they've gone to get rockets that you don't know there.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54683	Honorable representative Krešimir Cosic. Correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54684	Well, here's what I think is necessary to correct just some of the incorrect allegations. I would limit myself to those who read, quote: "No step has been made in improving combat and preparedness and defence capabilities. That's not true. Fortunately, with very limited financial resources, tactical communication equipment has been obtained, radar installed, project "Sky". Radars for the sea, a project that is very important. Certain funds have been modernised in HRZ, and what I am particularly stressing is the incorrect and the back step has happened unfortunately after 2000 in the field of research and development. To say today that this part is backward, and to forget the fact that it was almost abolished completely after 2000, I think it's a form of misinformation that's not allowed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54685	Defence Minister Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54686	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Just a few brief references to the presentation of the esteemed Mrs. Antunovic. The report discussed in the Croatian Parliament in October 2004 was in one section and criticised in view of the deadline in which it appeared before parliamentary deputies and with full right then you said it was a bit of a dog to discuss what was happening in 2003. And that's acceptable. We wanted to establish one standard that reports follow events in the calendar and budget year. So we decided not to go with the report in, during the calendar year 2005 even though it was fully prepared. To wait for the end of the calendar year and establish a standard for this report, to be adopted by the government during January and found in the debate in the Croatian Parliament or, at the latest by February of the year, to establish some criteria. It is not true, Mrs Antunovic, that article 120 discusses a special report on the state of defence preparations. He speaks, the government reports once a year to the Croatian Parliament on the state of defence and preparation in the Republic of Croatia. He's not talking about the form of a special report at all. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law does not oblige the submission of a specific report. It is particularly interesting and I thank you for your remarks but listen a little to the remarks from a representative who was a member of the Government, who never made a commitment and filed a report in his term of office when he acted on this important duty and served as defence minister and proposed to the Government in whose composition the report was submitted to this Parliament. The legal basis is the same and then it was now. However, this House has never discussed the defence system's readiness report for 2002, although the Defence Act came into force in March 2002. That obligation therefore existed in your term of office. You've never met her. But I accept the suggestion of a lot of those things that you said in your desire to make this report better, to set some standards, and to define what this report should actually contain? What's the most important thing? Realising that you can't normally in one report... everything that's going on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Normally it's a material condition. This government has reached a budget deficit of 6.2%, the desire is to reach deficits under the Mastrics criterion below 3% and normally one of the consequences and reduce the share in defence of the budget. You discussed the adoption of the State budget for 2006, but the result of the debate coming from the opposition circles was amendments that envisioned a reduction in the defence ministry's positions of around 500 million kuna. As for the truck, Mrs. Antunovic's trucks are in the system. Trucks are made available to the Croatian Armed Forces and no law has been broken in their supply. What's been broken and that's what I said publicly, that's the guideline on OFFSET. Since at the time of the decision, there was no commission on OFFSET appointed by the economy minister in the dilemma whether to spend 35 budget million on the purchase of the truck or/and break the guidance on OFFSET or to respect the guidance on OFFSET rather than spend the funds, I decided on this variant, and the trucks were obtained from the bidder who, in the previous tender procedure, pointed out an offer that was 17,5 % cheaper than the competitors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54687	Thank you. HSP representative club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54688	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. The HSP club will not and cannot support this report because we are not satisfied with the situation in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. The report may be well done, but it is worth a good report when we are dissatisfied with the situation in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. The second report on the preparedness of the defence system also shows that it is unsatisfactory, and therefore we cannot support that part of the report. We do not speak politically here and for the collection of political points, we speak responsibly, because I say to us the issue of defence and national security is not a political issue. What was done in the meantime? That report that we were looking for and we were considering it means the situation in the armed forces and the defence preparedness for 2003, we were considering it in October in 2004 and we said we commended the government for giving the actual state of play, it gave what the problems are, what the state of defence is in the area of defence preparedness of the state and what the situation is in the area of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. In all of this, there were a lot of proposals and the government itself made suggestions on what and how to do it, but unfortunately not much has been done, something little has been done, but it is not what it should be. We can't talk about the defense system's readiness unless we have a defense plan. How can we talk about the defense system's readiness if we don't have a defense plan? We had a defense plan in '91, and now there's no way we can do it. What's he saying? In 91st we made a defense plan, I was in charge of the task force, we did it in four months, and now at least something could be had, so keep it up to date, keep it up to date, but we don't have anything to defend ourselves, for the defense plan. It is not an important defence plan for war and a case of direct threat to independence and unity, it is important in peace in the case of elemental disasters, haiarium, accidents, and all of this is happening to us every day, floods and everything else. We have seen for ourselves that in the event of all these situations, we do not have the strength and resources to react. What's our status with civil protection? We know for ourselves, that's, civil protection is just a dead letter on paper. We can't talk about the reconstruction of the Armed Forces unless we have a long-term plan for the development of the Armed Forces. If we don't have a long-term Armed Forces plan so we can talk about the reconstruction of the Armed Forces. It's not the reconstruction of the Armed Forces, it's a clear reduction in the number of members of the Armed Forces, which means that it would lead to that level of 16 thousand members, that is, two thousand other military officers and tenants. If something is reorganized, it has to be created better. How it'll make it better if we don't have a long-term development plan for the Armed Forces. Logic is things everywhere in the world, and here we have the general, if you have fewer armies, you have to have better weapons, right? It's the logic of things. And now there's still talk of abolishing the military obligation. Are we, or are we, freezing a military obligation? Are we economically ready? Well, we're not ready. And are we finally going to start doing something? Well, it would be our turn to start working on this area, but systematically. So let's bring in the first long-term development plan of the Armed Forces, which will give us guidance on how and how we will reconstruct the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, we came out of the Homeland War, and we know that we have created the army since 91s, so in the war we created it, and in 96-97, the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia were ready, they were effective, they were stronger and more qualified than they were at that time Bulgaria and Romania, and Bulgaria and Romania entered the NATO alliance, not to talk about other neighbours. What kind of situation are we in? Bad. We had a land army meaning the Guard brigades, associations, choirs for which we were given recognition in terms of efficiency, readiness, training and force, such as the United States, such as England and all others. They even told us, here is Mr. Cosic, that our guards are better than their marines, or the English, that they are better than their commandos in carrying out their duties. What's the situation now? We know for a fact that there were reconstructions, so from the choir areas into the Corps, this, well, this situation is pretty bad in the land army, and we had a say in the land army, we didn't have two other branches developed like that, but they worked. We had meanings and military aviation, a branch of what the situation is now, nothing was systematically done, it was true of will, but we can't go into the 21st century if we have MIG-21 BIS. We know for ourselves what his options are, and we know for ourselves that we were provoked by the Italians, so the planes were coming to our area, so I'm not saying other things, it's a pure system of action. What's our status in the Navy? Bad. So there's very little resources, so it says in the report I don't have to if you haven't read it. So we can't provide budget funds, I agree, but for years we've been talking, let's take a model of Germany that's reconstructed its Armed Forces and filled the budget of valuable military property. What are we doing with them? Unfortunately, the former government has also done so, works and currently, donates them to cities and municipalities, and in the end it is known who is the end user and who will enter that space. And these valuable military properties, and we know how many the Croatian military had, that is, let's just take this part along the Adriatic coast, not to mention military and all, one part could be rented, the other part in concession, the third part sold, and there was the possibility of modernising and developing the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. As long as the ratio of funds to the budgets of which the Ministry of Defence, or the Armed Forces, is such that 70% goes to pay and material costs, it is clear to you that there is no modernization of the funds for modernisation. In the United States, it's a 50-50 ratio, 50% goes for wages and material costs, and 50% for weapons and military equipment. So we need to be aware of the fact that we will not be able to go into modernising the armed forces, that is, in the reconstruction and everything else if we want to have the armed forces that will have three branches, which will be modern, which will be trained, which will have the military equipment appropriate and will be able to meet all possible challenges. We won't be able to go through the state budget because we know that these funds are insufficient, so we need to use this model of valuable military property, in the first one of 2004, when we talked, even the minister said he would think about it, but unfortunately there was nothing systematically done and there was no illusion that in this way we will now be able to modernize the armed forces, we can have a defence system that will meet all needs and all those situations in which he has to react, so I'm only talking about the immediate threat of independence of the war situation when he means having to be put into use, but I'm only saying in case of the peace needs of reacting. If we don't take and start funding this piece of valuable military property, we won't be able to do anything about it much. In the Navy, our old proposal means that in the framework of the Coast Guard, this ship will be part of the Navy because we are not so rich as to have each of our own Coast Guards and the Navy and the police and customs services so that everyone has their equipment we are not according to what we have in one place, and then we use it multi-purposely as the Norwegian system that works in the same way. So that way we can already develop this part of the Navy. It's the same situation with the Air Force, so we don't need much, but we're going to have to have a couple of exhadrial supersonic planes, but we're going to have to have a helicopter service that's not only for the military in terms of war and other activities, but that can serve all other activities in protection and rescue actions and that I'm not talking about all other activities like transport helicopters and everything else. But to make all this happen, we must also start with the Strategy of Defence and National Security, but we must finally start to change the valid lists, such as the Defence Act, such as the Service Act in the Armed Forces. So that's the only way where and how, in which way we can run something and finally be satisfied and with the state of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia so we can really say that we reformed the army, we re-organized the army, because what we've done now is not, it's a clean reduction of the armed forces, we see for ourselves what our technique is, that the only bright point is that our members are a little younger than the technique itself. So, if we don't go that way, there's no way out of this situation, and you can be the one who wants to brag about how it's a good report and everything else, but the situation is worse, and if we don't launch comprehensive measures, nothing will be done. We also need to be aware that we can go to the freezing service of the military deadline if we do this part, so we re-establish the armed forces in this way, so if we have these economic powers then we can normally get into a situation to freeze, meaning not a military deadline, not a military obligation, but only a military service obligation, and you yourself know when other countries went, let's say, France and Italy went to this variant for a long time when they went to the professional military, when they introduced this concept of freezing military service. One of the problems that happens to us is that the minister also said that somewhere over 10 grand a year is looking for a civilian service is the problem of the same insufficient regulations. Watch out for you civil service today gets a man who has a weapon, a man who is a hunter, he gets a civilian service because it's enough to apply to a competent commission outside the Ministry of Defense and says that he from moral and religious supervision is not ready to serve a military deadline with a weapon in his hand, and on the other hand he's a hunter and such situations you have as many as you want, means and that institute is unfortunately abuse and watch out for another one is a variant, we know what a normal standard is in the military is quite low because there is not enough resources and normal that the difference is 6 months serving a military deadline, 8 civil service, then it's a better variant to go to civil service, all of us are time, you're still choosing where you'll go, let's say he's going to serve in some ministry, even some body of the state administration, or you'll say in a retirement home or already some humanitarian institution and the thing is solved, and we know that all the need of the right to be a doctor and also the right to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to do the right to be able to do the right to do the right to do all the right to do the right to do the right, and the right to do the right of the right of the right of the right of the right, and the right of the right of the right of the right and the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right and the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right and the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right and the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right and the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right and the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the So I think that we need to draw the line and go to these solutions that we are proposing, normally the government will accept that too, so that we can really say that we are going into the reconstruction of the armed forces and that we can really say that we are going to strengthen our defence readiness, not for the sake of war, thank God they won't be in these areas anymore, but there should always be action and in the case of terrorism now, there are various other forms developing where these very parts of the defence system play a role, homework and above all in preventive action. There's so much now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54689	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54690	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Kola Kovacevic said that the situation in the entire protection was nothing, catastrophic and that we could see for ourselves. That's not just true. I believe that civil protection has been fulfilling all this time as much of its obligations and I wonder what Mr. Kovacevic would have said that we had a situation as it was recently in America during Hurricane Katrina when the de facto American government led by the president according to some estimates was not responding because it reacted poorly. The minister pointed to shortcomings both inadequacy and measures to be taken in the area of civil protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54691	On behalf of the HDZ club, respected representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54692	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. In a sufficiently objective, balanced and responsible way in a shorter report to cover all the important problems, tasks and challenges facing the Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces today in 2006, 10 years after the end of the Homeland War was not a simple and easy task, it was not a simple and easy job. However, at first, it should be said that this is today's report that we are discussing significantly better, more fully, more balanced, more open, more responsible and more objectively than what we heard in October 2004. I certainly believe that the aim of these discussions should be to point to problems, their character, their origin, and to create conditions for them to be solved more effectively, more effectively and more quickly in the future. Transitional problems encountered today by the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, but the Ministry of Defence as a whole are far more complex, I would also say deeper than many do, and I want to say more about it. I want to explain it because it needs to be understood. It is a fundamental assumption that all the difficulties we objectively have, which are inherited, which have a long history would understand and create conditions for how to solve them. Certainly the most difficult problem is one that is related to the technical, technological state of arms and military equipment that today has the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and plans to modernise these armed systems in the future will last, I will say openly, much longer than we think. Simplification and misunderstanding, as well as marginalizing the complexity of all those problems, I am particularly talking about those in technical and technological terms, are forms of behavior that are not good. But also, on the other hand, I hold that inability and unpreparedness as we have heard in the opening discussions to see and recognize important results and progress, the shifts that the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia have achieved in recent years. It's also not a form of behavior that allows us to be more constructive, more cooperative and more successful together. These are the problems we're talking about, they've had virtually every transition country without exception. With the need to stress that the problems faced by the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia were far more complex and more difficult than in most other countries. The problems that the Republic of Croatia was about to solve, the problems solved by the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Defence, again, were extremely difficult. Let us remember in 1991 when the Republic of Croatia was disarmed on purpose, territorial defence as part of an aggression plan against the Republic of Croatia that planned for JNA. Back in 1991, we didn't have much to talk about today, but we had willingness, determination, organization. But also political leadership, which is extremely important and in a relatively short time, created abilities, produced results, and Croatia managed to survive in 1991 when many objective experts in the world said, Croatia will not survive for 14 days. And these were well-founded forecasts of military experts and military experts. With heavy, organized, good and persistent work in 91, 92, 93, we created conditions for everything that happened in 95. And certainly, no one will argue that in 95, the Croatian Army and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia have proved that they are a respectable military force and no one can dispute that. And those are the facts. However, today is 2006, and we need to be practical and pragmatic and deal with all the problems that we are facing today, which are largely inherited, and I will also say more about it. The restructuring of the Armed Forces is an important, difficult and long-term task and such tasks are solved with less or more successes from another country and the Armed Forces in most transition states. The problems we have are certainly with a limited state budget, 2% or less than 2%. Not only that fact, but its absolute amount, one major restriction, and in particular a major restriction is the structure of that state budget. The outcome of most problems, however, is related to the fact and the way we have created the Armed Forces since 91st and beyond. In 91st year, only in the Zagreb stadium with several kalashnikovs. I stress, in 1991 there was almost no military industry in the Republic of Croatia. The military industry and military infrastructure were concentrated 42% of Serbia, 43% of Bosnia and Herzegovina, only there since 1980 in the so-called "Djuro Djakovic" military programme on the project Kapela, which he participated in only 17% as an integrator, and all basic fighting systems and drive developed in other former state companies. We didn't have, therefore, the military industry, we didn't have the proper military infrastructure for education, for training, for education. And a lot of things that mattered back then we didn't have, but most importantly, we had an embargo. In both these and these circumstances, we were able to create with all the problems, with all the difficulties, with the improvisation of what was needed. The moment of 21 1993 and 1994 was far more important than what we are talking about today. If we hadn't had all that at the time, with the fact that a lot of things were out of date, that resources were almost spent, we wouldn't have been able to do everything we had to do. Certainly very often when I talk about armed forces, I like to stress that each country's armed forces are almost the largest technical and technological system. However, here I would like to point out that yet the most important part of the armed forces are people. This was the case in the war, it is also in peace, but I would like to point out, in particular, not only the most important, but the best part between 1991 and 1995 were the people who defended, defended and created an independent and complete Republic of Croatia, and therefore I am using the opportunity here once again to thank all Croatian defenders for what they did from 1991 to 1995 by creating armed forces and defending the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. When we talk about people, then we're really talking about one of the most complex and comprehensive issues, and I want to say a few words about it right now. The system of selection is extremely important both in war and in peace with its challenges, its priorities and criteria that can vary to a certain extent. Selection system at all levels of soldiers, officers and officers. Stimulation and wages are an extremely important part of the professional life of soldiers, officers and officers. Quality of life, the perspective is something that must be given much more attention because their wages and incentives that they today have are not adequate and I must say that unfortunately very often they are the best looking and find perspective in many other places. It's a question that deserves certainly a lot more attention. The promotion system is very important and here it has been said about it but in particular we need to have a lot more insight and in all as democratic defence management says, transparency of promotion in the highest acts is very important. In this sense, a lot more can and must be done when the generals are promoted, when the generals are appointed, then it is common for the relevant parliament institutions to participate in that decision to have their views, recommendations or at least to learn about them in time. The system of training and education is extremely important, and in our training centre, which certainly played a major and significant role in the overall ability of the Croatian military during the Homeland War in Šepurin, at the entrance, was largely in the letters "STOY OF KREV". Training is also important today especially given that Croatia participates in challenging and complex peacekeeping operations in Afghanistan, in many UN missions around the world, and this infrastructure is, in any case, one of the priorities and I think that this is very well highlighted in this report will be more financially supported. The mental combat preparedness, the mental state of Croatian soldiers, the selection of those who can face all these challenges is very important. The development of a new officer's system is important and in this sense I do not think that there is enough attention to the "Cadet" programme, which is certainly a new form of civil military education in which future Croatian military officers are educated in civil institutions, civil colleges and at the same time live in military conditions and conduct appropriate forms of education and training. The spectrum program certainly deserves attention. Full education, professional development are key elements of each system, especially the military system. There were unfortunately not enough words about military schools, but they deserve more attention. Accreditation, diploma, command-command schools, war schools, nostration of diplomas from our students who have graduated from schools abroad from West Point, etc. It was part of a process that we successfully addressed in collaboration with the university. I'm personally part of most of the process of nostrifying the diploma of our students. Certainly, it will be very important that this system is improved in every respect and that it is more accessible and transparent and even more transparent for parliamentary representatives, and in this sense I think it would be very useful to visit a certain parliamentary delegation to the relevant military schools of the Republic of Croatia. The quality of students, the quality of teaching, and the solving of all the problems we met with, and I personally have one very unpleasant experience that in 2001, from the Senates of the University of Zagreb, I was proposed to participate in the leadership or I don't know in the teaching council of war school and that then the head of the war school is one of the Yugoslav generals said "not applicable". That's the kind of behavior I hope it'll never be again. Further development of parliamentary democracy in support of everything the Ministry of Defence has done, I believe, is very important and such visits are not only to military universities but also to new radar stations and even to many of those involved in the production of arms and military equipment of the Republic of Croatia. Croatia's main medium-term goal today is to join NATO in 2006. The Republic of Croatia is located as is said and important to a different security environment and accordingly there are relevant priorities. Strengthening the positive perception of the Republic of Croatia on a wider international stage is very important and I think it is the part that needs to be pointed out in particular and which should be given special recognition, it is the participation of Croatian troops in pension operations not only of the UN but especially of NATO's peacekeeping operation, the ISAF peace operation. It is a form of promotion of Croatian state interests through these projects and through these operations Croatia proves its full commitment but also its willingness to contribute to the strengthening of the global security system. The international visibility of the Republic of Croatia in Kabul is very high in Afghanistan. As soon as it lands at Kabul International Airport, the first flag you see is tied to the military police vehicle of the Ministry of Defence or Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Peace operation in Afghanistan I would say is the best and most important polygon which, in real, extremely difficult conditions, allows testing the abilities of Croatian soldiers, officers and officers. It allows testing their psychic endurance, their physical endurance, to test the quality of their training. It enables testing of everything that we are talking about here, such as interoperability, compatibility of equipment and so on, and given what the armed forces have done with their presence in Afghanistan, I think that not only the Ministry of Defence but also the Republic of Croatia has received a whole series of international recognitions. Status of combat technique. We talked about him more and I want to say my outcome there in the years when we created the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. In the terms of the embargo. Even spent equipment had its meaning on the ground military, psychological, and everything else. The arms and military equipment industry is something that deserves attention, but first of all, people who understand it. Improvised comments, promises that Djuro Djakovic will be able to do this, and that's not good because we have to be responsible and aware when we invest big financial resources that can really be done and in what time? The improvement of this section, which determines the overall capabilities of the national security system of the Republic of Croatia, is very important. Perhaps in the end a few words about research and development. This is the component of which all modern armed forces, or all modern states in the world, which lead to their armed forces' calculation, pay special attention and I believe that this part will play an increasingly significant role in the future and future work of the Ministry of Defence. Given everything he's said, he's got problems, but he's got results. The joint efforts of all those responsible can be done much more with the limited financial resources available to the Ministry of Defence. For all these reasons, the HDZ Club supports this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54693	Thank you. At 17.55, the time for individual... within 10 minutes of this item of the agenda. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Dear Representative Zlatko Kramaric on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and DC. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54694	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. It's not easy to speak in Parliament because there are several former ministers sitting here right now, defence ministers. Have a seat and a few generals. There's a couple of people sitting there working in that system. Before I do, then I have to go some other way, so I'm going to point out some methodological inaccuracies to this report. The provision of the Law on Defence and the very name of this report indicates that it is submitted to the Croatian Parliament once a year. As far as I am aware, the last report was submitted to our Club in 2004 which analysed the situation in the defence system in 2003, so it is obvious that the legal obligation in the last year has been skipped since it was not implemented. Reporter is trying to correct the failure by covering the activity report over the last two years. In this effort, the report has partly lost consistency with the law for a specific purpose, which is informing the Croatian Parliament about the state and readiness of the defence system. It has received the feature of the Ministry of Defence's work in a good way. Similarly, we at the Club find it unacceptable to present a report on the readiness of the defence system as a report on the state of defence preparations in the Republic of Croatia. The chapter on defence preparations indicates a weak coverage of the area of action. This applies primarily to the whole component of the defence system because according to the report, it is at the recognition stage. It still seems to us that, that this state is trying to describe both the concept or the crisis or the extraordinary situation that the report says is not even regulated nor legally. It will hardly be because the concept can be defined at best and procedures are regulated normably. However, what is positive in this report is certainly more important than, of these particular methodological inconsistencies. From the presented data, we can conclude that the process of re-designing the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia continues to take place with dynamics and guidance in line with the declared objectives. It is also to welcome the expansion of the process of adapting to new requirements and standards and beyond the armed forces to other segments of the defence system. With quantitative indicators of this process, we can be fully satisfied. According to these indicators, it could be concluded that in this and next year, the process of adapting the size of the defence system passes through its final phase. What has not been given enough attention so far, and by objectively looking at it we probably couldn't have expected is a qualitative dimension of the process of reconstruction. Although in some parts of the report, we are in the Club’s opinion that more attention should be paid to the precisely qualitative aspect of the reconstruction process. For the illustration, I provide information on the implementation of the 2005 detachment plan on page 37 and where the presented data shows that the Ministry of Defence left 66 highly educated civil servants or 6 times more than was planned. One logical question arises and is how will the defence system be able to reach the planned higher level of efficiency and achieve ambitious targets with such an unwanted drain of highly educated employees. On the contrary, it looks forward to information that the process of obtaining personnel for the needs of armed forces has begun and that a selection centre has been established to select candidates for the active military service. To successfully implement the staff procurement programme of greater importance, it will be possible to ensure quality conditions for work and professional development. Data on the number of official apartments assigned to use military personnel indicate the huge problems that await us in this area. It is clear that the transformation of the armed forces from a kind of territorial defence where the largest number of military personnel is seeking to tie the place to their residence, in a modern army where the place of service depends exclusively on the needs of the system and the development of a military career, is not possible without a quality solution to the problem of accommodation of active military personnel, and we believe that this is the same problem that is likely to have to be solved in due course as much as possible. In the report, the problem of military service in our opinion is not given enough attention, the existing model supported by the practice of no conditional approval of civil service within the military deadline has practically completed the obligation of military service. Already today, we can say that we have a model of voluntary military service, which is why it is deplaced to question the existing model as proposed in the Report, it is necessary to introduce a new model as soon as possible that will recognise what has already happened in practice, which is that most young people really choose to serve their military service in a civil way. A similar situation is with the reserve units of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. It's a huge number of members, but we don't think it's on paper. Since the end of the Homeland War, it means no one's invited them since 1995, no one's trained them. In line with the declared objectives of adapting the defence system to new security challenges, it is necessary to redefine the size and role of reserve charges of armed forces, I don't think I have to say how this works in Switzerland, but certainly such a model would be something that the Republic of Croatia should and should think about. Chapters on logistics preparedness and state of combat technique indicate that the situation remains unsatisfactory, whether it is directly expressed or left to conclude on its own as in the case of supplies... The funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Presenting state... The funds... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] only in the amount of 40,000 tonnes, we think it's not about the state, that's what's wrong, then conclude from the imposition of measures necessary to improve the state of supply... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then, the equipment and modernisation projects of the Armed Forces in the Report are pedanically numbered, but there is no analysis to which the purpose is to carry out and achieve which capabilities their organisation will enable, and therefore we, who are not military experts, are unable to determine whether these projects are and how much they are in the function of fulfilling the existing tasks. For the demonstration, I will only provide an example of the information given in the Report under the heading "The Management of Material Resources" where it is stated, and since I am neither Pero Kovacevic, nor Col. Ćosic, nor I say former ministers, it is said that the existing gyro-vertile system of sperm has become obsolete and incorrect and is replaced by a system of ratings which is among other things... With... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Pulling 12, I must admit that it means absolutely nothing to me, and this means that something has become obsolete or that something has been unified in the meantime and that the structure has been replaced with someone else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what makes us happy at the club is that this report still radiates with certain optimism and uncontestable is the fact that the situation in our armed, although it is incontestable that the situation in our armed forces is all before satisfactory, but the comforting fact in the field of human resources is still far better than the state of technical readiness and equipment, and yet it is a very important factor in which further upgrading of our military readiness and efficiency can be done. In the strategy of national security, the last government was drawn up at the beginning of the mandate, despite the other and basic strategic directions... Armed forces in light of new globalisation conditions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These conditions clearly indicate new routes of development of the armed forces trained to effectively counter not only smaller regional war threats, but are ready to respond to the challenges of international terrorism and organised international crime miles from which various terrorist groups are often financed. The question arises whether our armed forces are at this point fully prepared to respond effectively and militaryly to the challenges of these two above threats. I believe that, despite the state of the art, our army could still effectively prevent any direct threat that might come from our environment, but I am not sure that at this point it is able to fully protect us from the potential of major terrorist threats and prevent organised crime in the area of our country. My suspicion is based on the fact that these groups have the most sophisticated equipment that our army does not have for now, and it is certainly a condition for an effective fight with this new world problem. So, I agree with the statements made in the report that the regional environment of the Republic of Croatia and despite some sparks that occasionally flash in our immediate neighborhood take on more stable and safer features, which enables us to in peace and without excessive haste... Modernising the entire army, but this does not mean that for years in this modernisation we can only consider and develop studies without concrete investments in the reconstruction, i.e. the purchase of new equipment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We must point out in our club that it is incomprehensible that no defence plan has yet been adopted, nor have they brought in sublegal acts concerning defence preparations, even though that obligation has been established there in 2002. We are not satisfied with the fact that different expert groups have been formed which are tasked with making these acts and that they are working faster because I think it is a long time ago and these acts should be in office. I'm afraid this government will miss an opportunity to these and... acts shall be taken during its term of office as it has done and it shall be preceded, even though we know it is about... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and follow-up acts to coordinate the actions of civil defence holders, crisis conditions, disasters, immediate threats and wartime conditions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're probably all aware that it's also a prerequisite for NATO integration and that the recently coming out... This alliance, at the expense of Croatia's readiness to join NATO, remains only commendable without concrete follow-up activities in this area. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We must point out that we ourselves are partly responsible for the state of military technology because we have accepted the reduction of the budgets allocated to the military for uncritical years. Some of us pointed to this problem of a drastic downsizing, but we were convinced that this would not affect technical abilities and military equipment but that this reduction of resources was due to the reconstruction in the military and the reduction of the number of people in the active army. It seems, however, that these beliefs were not always covered. Even though there are certain indications that individual components of the military are being renewed, for example. through the beating of the clinic debt, i.e. to go into procurement, i.e. the remonting of some military technique, which is certainly commendable, we think that the issue of modernising our army will be met for years and that we must be aware that the increase in redistribution for the military is our future and that entering the NATO Pact certainly costs, i.e. that it has its price and that this price is everyone much higher than it is from our budget at this moment. We have to agree with that, I think that any demagogy is really just a demagogy and that no political assumptions can be created for, or assumptions for, some political options. Namely, all three components of our army, aviation, navy and land forces cannot boast almost any fighting agent whose age has not been numbered in tens of years. We are also witnessing a certain revolt of military pilots, challenging precisely the state of aviation technology, and precisely because of this inability to achieve prescribed flight hours. I hope this is the situation now by getting some new aircraft to repair, although we are sure that the situation will continue to be significantly below satisfactory. We must also express the surprise and dissatisfaction that the issue of military facilities that have been found not to be of interest to the military to retain them and this particular problem between the Ministry of Defence and certain units of local self-government is most often solved by the principle of love, I do not love, or what the political option of that moment was either in the ministry or in the local self-government unit, and I think there are really no reasons and there are precisely these funds of spare opportunities which could then be used for some other purposes. Such facilities are further a financial burden for the military rather than being used for the purposes of which the military could benefit. I hope that the solution to this issue will be approached as soon as possible, and I say more to the team than really a whole series of objects that are still being carried out that the Ministry of Defence's property has really long been in office, but the automation that preceded us since 91 has brought us into such a situation and I say it's high time to get rid of this. Here I see a fellow Hebrang with whom I almost finished one when I was mayor of Osijek one job, but unfortunately then some other ministers came along, so here's the story, here's today in 2006, and that started somewhere in 98. here you see six, and before that was already done and I had one feeling that, if my colleague Hebrang was like... The minister was the only one who truly had a sincere desire and not only a wish but also an intention to resolve it, but unfortunately, my great regret and the citizens of Osijek was a very short defence minister. [[You don't understand.]] Although the issue of youth and highly educated personnel has also been ignored after the re-organisation of the army, which is also a prerequisite for its professionalization that we seek. Therefore, I believe that an attractive program should be drawn up immediately... Young officers who, through certain benefits and stimulating wages, should make a military call much more attractive and precisely to solve the problem of rejuvenation of our army. [[You don't understand.]] We must certainly commend our participation in various peace missions that have again tried to make Croatia have a capable military staff and that human resources are certainly a co-operative advantage to be used further in promoting our army on an international basis. I know that there are always doubts when such missions are being sent, when we send our boys, soldiers, but we also need to know that without these peacekeeping missions that the situation in 91, 92 was much more difficult and in some way this principle of international solidarity will in some way introduce global participation in certain problems is part of which Croatia as a member, a full member of the international institutions of the United Nations must take over. Says they didn't say I say those commendations that were sent to our soldiers who... It's a mission, and they're actually sent from respectable places. [[You don't understand.]] Finally, I would like to say that this year's report is truly exhaustive and realistically depicting the situation in our Armed Forces as we consider its additional quality. Honestly, all the problems and shortcomings that are very good are highlighted, and exactly exports must be our programme and there is nothing to lead this NOJ policy as indicated and the upcoming activities that are planned to take place in order to stop the ageing techniques and step into a new technological military era. Therefore, this report is considered acceptable by our club and we can show it support for presented plans and activities, with the recommendation that... The frames start as soon as possible. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54695	Thank you, dear colleague Kramarić. Correction of an incorrect quote, a respected colleague of Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54696	Dear Mr. Vice President, I have a correction to the incorrect assumption, although I must admit that my colleague Kramaric spoke as General Kramaric given the knowledge of the subject. The correction of the incorrect quote refers to the part where a colleague said the Ministry of Defence of Military Property donated to municipalities and cities, it is incorrect. This is what the Government does on a proposal from the Central State Property Office, but these municipalities and cities are also sitting on top of the Ministry of Defence because it does not pay municipal fees.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54697	Thank you, dear colleague Kovacevic. We continue the debate, dear colleague Markov, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54698	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. When in a parliamentary democracy, in a sovereign independent country anywhere in the world is discussing the situation in the Armed Forces and when it is a topic, it is certainly the least of the day topic. There's a debate on that day. There is one very important interest in both the political establishment and the citizens and the media and the parliamentary representatives on the subject. It is simply a subject that is necessary, necessary in all countries, in one word to it. The countries of the European Union have a particularly elaborate system of parliamentary oversight of the Armed Forces, they are seriously discussing it and there is a certain methodology in which we can discuss it, and without getting into that measure of things that someone can enter like Kramaric who probably knows it well, but it is not our job to discuss the scale of things and to know certain infrastructures of relations in the Armed Forces and in the processes that they are in but our role is somewhat different. We here as Parliamentarians need to deal with what we are tasked with, and our tasks are very clearly positioned both in the Constitution and in the law and in the Defence Act, and that is to discuss the control system equally in the spending of state money and in the state of the Armed Forces with all those aspects that are partly contained in this proposal for an annual report. Namely, it is not good to discuss such an important topic, it simply goes away in these afternoons when the media presence has fallen somewhat, as well as the presence of colleagues and colleagues in the assembly benches, because it gives one false picture. It is very difficult to require the public to take seriously the debate on the situation in the Armed Forces, it is very difficult to mobilize tomorrow's public, tomorrow it is to mobilize for certain changes in how to view the role and place of the Armed Forces. It will be very difficult tomorrow to mobilise the public on the idea of NATO during the referendum. It will be very difficult tomorrow to mobilize the public that it needs from 1.98 gross social product to come to 2.14...... That's right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So it's going to be very hard to mobilize the public without our contribution that we all understand together that this is a very important question, that this is not a subject where we should make fun of or find ways to make fun of each other. This is a serious issue and the seriousness of the debate is about how serious we are. Because this is not a debate about paprikas and pomidors, but this is a debate on the state of the Armed Forces, on national security and on how much and how we have met all these demands and how well we have spent the state money and how we have spent them and how effectively we have spent them. Of course, this all stems from the Law of Defence that came into force in 2002. It's a good thing this report came. It's a good thing the debate is, it would be better if the debate was conducted under other conditions and circumstances, but there it is. In principle, what I want to say on behalf of the HSS Club and what I don't think is right. It is not good that this report does not require an opinion from ministries that are infrastructure-based to give a picture of the situation, such as the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs. All those ministries of which the state of each of their resources depends and the overall readiness of the Armed Forces. Because today we can't talk about the Armed Forces as some kind of military specific. He became far wider with far different and different, but no less demanding tasks. But in an unwary field, but far more significant or crucial tasks that the Armed Forces have in the new world, let's call it that. And that is why, in this report, it was absolutely necessary to find a place of a certain civilian component. A component of how to manage crises in times of crisis that can occur as a result of elemental disasters, an earthquake does not come from God. Flood, God forbid, but also bird flu. So why not? Greece, arguing in Parliament, has been discussing two days of a strategy to fight the possible arrival of bird flu. Because she is a serious threat to every country's national security. It is a global challenge, but it is an absolute debate on the strategy, a debate on the status report in the Armed Forces cannot be and cannot pass the debate on the country's financial system. Because without a stable country's financial system, there's a syndrome like that in South America. And the report must also contain a certain macroeconomic climate from which it is evident how the financial system of the Republic of Croatia is positioned, how the stock stocks in the Ministry of Agriculture operate in case we assume a certain crisis period in which there will be insufficient products, and we know for God that they come from abroad to us. So it is even more important to provide those resources that can cover a certain period. So at that level, I think it's a good idea to mention the State Protection and Rescue Authority as a very important segment in this, one civilian component that has to defend those positions that can be compromised through some forms of elemental disaster. The regional disaster centre in Divulje, also a very important factor that we need to use to get not only the Croatian position but the position in the Mediterranean that the centre, the Regional disaster centre, has established. To get funds from a variety of funds, etc., but it must be a component of this part. Someone's here, a colleague of Shima Luchin mentioned ships, seas, and that component in the Armed Forces. The HSS Club has always advocated, of course, that funds should be found for that component. At this point, we are told not only by the military dimension but by the economic perspective, the economic perspective of the control, the control of the Adriatic transport will prove as strategically important as the corridors we open in road transport, in rail transport. The Adriatic transport spill is shown in terms of control, and the first to exercise control, gentlemen, will be a geostrategic, will be the control of the Adriatic Basin, and this will be crucial in the future. Who's gonna get it? The one who goes first with the projects, the one who gets the first training to be able to control and control. Because the passing of good laws, and if you can't act effectively under these laws, or those who don't respect it, then they don't respect it if they know that you can't act in case they don't act in accordance with the law. Thus, a number of reasons suggest that this subject must be handled far differently in the coming years. That the Parliament has to deal differently with this issue. That this topic must in some ways be given the right to vote as well as the state budget. Same as the state budget. And that's then the proper evaluation of both the Homeland War and those who are now in the Armed Forces system and who need to get a different status because we're sort of determining their status by the way we're discussing it. Of course, I always take the opportunity to commend all those members of the Croatian Armed Forces that are in Afghanistan, which despite the material bad foundation showed that their resource, that our largest capital is in humans. And they showed and confirmed the thesis of the Homeland War in Afghanistan. Therefore, these are all important reasons that in the future report we must not only methodologically differently elaborate it as I have said, but that we must all give an additional dignity to this debate. And not to let that debate be done by seven o'clock, so let's go, and tomorrow won't even be recorded. Because it's simply not good for serious and thorough reconstruction, development and armed forces in total. Of course, on behalf of the HSS Club, I can't get around one topic that is, of course, touching these issues, and when it comes to the report on threats and risks, and when it comes to the security environment, then of course any change on that plan has not occurred at this time. But there are certain data that make it impossible for the security environment to be seen equally after the European leaders' possible announcement about the so-called Western Balkans. Why? Well, of course, for the simple reason that we don't want a Union like that, but it's always good that she finds a very explicit place that we don't want her. And that she can't even be present as an alternative to the alternative. It simply needs to be as it says in the Constitution that it is never again with Serbia-Montenegro, so it should be written. Why does it have to be written? Well, because it's the best argument for our foreign-political negotiators and those who work to have a foothold in the power of their parliament. Because if they do not have a foothold in Parliament's power and parliament comes from the people, then they have no arguments. Today, parliaments in the world are also strengthening their role in these segments to make it known to someone. Any message from any serious country in terms of any claim or assessment that there has been a threat to national security has not come out of the prime minister's office, has not come out of a press conference but has been said in a parliamentary body, it was said in parliament. There are messages coming out of here and there's a voice from the people who gave us a voice to represent him. The government is under-using the possibilities of this Parliament to send clear messages to citizens, but also to those who need to hear these messages, and I think that in the context of this debate, there is a lack of opportunity for us to position ourselves better, for the Ministry of Defence to come to that level of budgetary resources that are necessary for it to be organised not to enter NATO but rather to be at the level required by the Croatian society, which can bear Croatian opportunities in line with the needs of the military structure. So there's a lot we have to do, but most of it's not about having a 96% single today, and we need to raise it up, but it's about lying in our decision to get more serious and when we're discussing serious things. And that the government of whose government it is, whoever it is we call upon to use this place to give messages, to send serious signals, and to discuss that should contribute not to strengthening the integrity of our representatives but to strengthening the dignity of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54699	Thank you, dear colleague. It's my colleague Caine's turn on behalf of the IDS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54700	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, the Honorable Mr. Representatives! This report by the armed forces can be said to be the first peacetime report by the armed forces. For the first time or to be more precise, it has never been so unequivocally observed as it seems in this report, I quote, that on the basis of the judgment of space, threats and risks, it can be concluded that it is not currently against the Republic of Croatia and that a direct conventional military threat will not be expressed in the longer term, although it must not be completely excluded. It is unlikely that some conventional conflict will develop during the emerging period, etc., etc. That's exactly the detail I believe to be the highest quality of this report. We kind of send a message to the countries with which we fought until yesterday that Croatia, I mean Serbia-Montenegro above all, no longer sees as a potential aggressor and that is actually an accurate finding. The war was waged on Croatian soil. We were also involved in the one in Bosnia for a while, but more than ten years have passed since that period and today Croatia is on Serbia, etc. He must see as a neighbor with whom he will develop economic relations, try to heal war wounds, improve his return, etc. From such a policy, I hold, I can profit clearly both Croatia and Serbia. Secondly, this report is submitted by the Government but in some ways as I read it, it is also the report by the President of the Republic in whose constitutional jurisdiction the armed forces are. Surely the central part of the report is this on page seven, I quote, that the armed forces will retain the border structure, reduce the number of units and command and continue to develop the capacity to carry out defined missions and tasks. The target size of the armed forces is 16 thousand personnel and 2 thousand civilian personnel with a contractual reserve of 8,000 members. The manual composition plans to be phased out but the possibility of voluntary military service will be maintained. The truth is that Croatia still has disputed territorial situations of borders against Serbia, Montenegro, St. Gera, about the Piran Bay not to speak. However, we need to remove the service of the military as quickly as possible because today this no longer makes sense, even though it must be clear to all that Croatia will be more single for the professional army tomorrow than it does today. Clearly, in the war we singled out up to 40% of the military budget or defence. Today it's below 2 or about 2%. Today, the Croatian Army has probably one of the smallest budgets from all European countries 1.61%) to 1.8%. Or for 2005, it was 1.61% planned for GDP and in 2004, it was 1.81% of gross social product with military missions plus fire protection. This was 2,06% of gross social product, with European Union fire protection clearly not being classified as military expenditure. On the other hand, 0.1% of gross social product is about 250 million kuna. European averages for the military are about 2% and up to or up to 2.2% of gross social product. However, if someone asked me if that 0.1-0.2% 250 to 500 million kuna is better to give to the military or if it is better to direct that money to health care, education, roads, justice, etc. At this point, I think it's rational to do this the other way. Clearly, tomorrow's likely NATO entry will also increase the allocation for the military but the number of 16 thousand active military personnel plus 2 thousand civilian staff and 8000 contracted reserves is sufficient for small Croatia. I think it's even too much and in any case an optimum. More than that, I think it would be megalomania. However, I repeat, the professional army will certainly cost more than this existing one tomorrow. Thirdly, the most valuable thing that happened in the Croatian army after the release, in the last seven, eight years, means nine years after the end of military-redharative operations was to be... This reduction of the number of professional soldiers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's headed there somewhere with almost 50 or over 50 grand. Today we have 25 thousand and 154 professional soldiers or persons in service. Why is that the most valuable thing? Because it seemed painless. It was all done without the bumps, without some, without the big earthquakes. It's clear it's all done with more or less retirement and a huge number of people, 20, 30, maybe thousands of people. But there was a single assumption that the army would be an army according to the highest standards. Maybe there in three, four years. The truth would be more opportunistic if people were helped to start a job rather than go from budget to budget. They used to be means on the budget when they were getting paid, and now they're back on the budget when they get their pension. The Croatian military certainly needs modernisation. Our equipment is inferior. She's out of date. Tank average age 35. Battle vehicles average age 20 years. The anti-aircraft defense's out of date, there's no protection above 3,000 feet. In aviation, the situation is worse. We've got 10 to 12 MiG planes flying. That's better than 2000 or 1999, but that's bad. The Canadians, fortunately, let's use them in the season, we can say that we stand here relatively well. The helicopters we've got are 40% on the flight. Our Navy is out of service in a worse situation than the ones the Hungarians have at Balaton. I quote page here 26: "The correctness of the key combat technique in the Croatian Navy, two-point, today the Croatian Navy can only carry out tasks of transport, landmines and patrols. Other tasks such as missile strike, anti-submarine and mine fighting cannot be carried out because of the age of ships and so on. But that's where we kind of come to be. We all know how and when the Croatian Army was created. So in the war when Croatia was isolated and therefore not surprised by all this coloring techniques. The only thing that bothers the store is that some have become very rich, and some have received general rank for the prize. But no one in this country has audited the conversion, to be cynical, so why would you touch the arms trade? However, the emphasis must be on the following that the Croatian industry is trying to equip the Croatian Army. That the Croatian transporter is working "Djuro Djakovic", if it is necessary to get a license from this Finnish "Patria" then let it be done but let the job be given to Djuru Djakovic. If the Navy needs to get to some patrol ship, have it built by our bootleggers. Let every shipbuilding site for the subsidies received by "high avi" 9 and a few billion kunas they will not settle, but for them the state will donate one round ship even though it will pay dearly, but I want to say, let's start the Croatian military industry. For what? First of all, military equipment and exports. The annual production of the domestic military industry is 300 million kuna. Well, gentlemen, it's nothing. That's embarrassingly small. Of these 300 million kunas, Croatia exports about 250 million kunas, which is also nothing. In world terms, it's simply negligible. Even so, we would export weapons, but let's say the United Nations missions wouldn't have gone even though the United Nations and Croatia largely ensured peace through UNPROFOR when there were 8,9 thousand soldiers here for one period. We have 44 arms companies. But those 300 million kunas, it's really negligible. Only one Buzet Cimos exports 400 million kuna auto parts for one BMW, Citroen, Opel, Peugeot and so on. The only valuable result in exports is this HS 2000 gun, which is being exported to the United States by Karlovci. They export even more of those guns than the Czech count does. Go back to that Djuro Djakovic. What about the tank of this Degman? Is that ever going to walk on quotes? Apparently, they are now launching the production of 126 armored transporters with a foreign partner, and this should now be my court of law for the Croatian government to employ Croatian companies in the manufacture of weapons. I could have mentioned the oil rockets here and so on as I simply can't believe that the MORH was stolen under the quotes of 5100 missiles. Even though I don't think it's about that 11 million kuna that these missiles are worth, it's about why 2001. Croatia interfered with the conflict on Bosnia and Herzegovina's soil? Finally, the fact that you don't know for three years where these missiles are is one army clamperum where the responsible persons should be sent as that Spanish minister into house arrest. What should be the safest thing to do is steal the most easily. I can understand that someone is blowing up one of your missiles. Come on. But if I didn't know myself for two, three years where 5100 rockets are so it just doesn't have a country that acts so irresponsiblely. And now we come to terrorism. How will we guard ourselves when we are unable to guard the gentlemen or the missiles? Or when we don't know where those missiles are? It is fortunate that no one under quotes is interested in terrorism. You're talking about mental combat preparedness now and you say on page 28 that soldiers are satisfied with their clothes, and accommodation and food are on average satisfied. Perhaps we should ask these residents on Valovina in Pula what they think about their accommodation, but I am saying that in the context that the Croatian Army can live, there I agree with Kovacevic only on the property it has by the sea in such a way that those in the cities, there I am different with it, must apply without compensation to local self-government or must, with the consent of local self-government and property, function. Then drugs in the army. I am convinced that in barracks or barracks, drugs can be easier to do than on the street. That's the problem I'd say military jurisdiction, civilian police, but that's one huge problem. Of course that military system is a huge system. We have 25 thousand 154 employees. Of which 3 thousand 555 officers and officers plus 10 thousand 579 sent recruits to the Croatian Army. So in public, relatively closed systems, these drug problems can also occur clearly. We also have the budget of the Research Institute Mr. Cosic was talking about. It amounts to only 1.2 million kuna. EUR 750 000. So the question is, what can you do with that money in the first place? There's nothing you can do. And the military isn't just a market. She's supposed to be some kind of tech detacher. To end what do you expect from 3.7 billion kuna in 2004 or 1.81%) of gross social product where 2, where 2.6 billion or 73.7% go to pay? So our technique is what it is. What do you expect from 3.6 billion kuna in 2005 or 1.61%) of gross social product? So we need a radical reconstruction because the system is ahead of fatigue. He's just losing his touch like this. It's getting kind of self-inflicted. I agree, one plane is 30 million dollars or 200 million kuna. Croatia can buy two planes a year, 10 tanks, but let's not change exactly, but let's start the domestic war industry first clearly for the needs of the Croatian Army, but also export. And secondly, deprive yourself of the gentlemen or Mr. Ministers of these barracks by the sea, because what they look like today, for example. the one at the entrance to Pula where these stone blocks "RT", "pupils", pecks, are being robbed as to whom the desire becomes in some way images and opportunities of the Croatian Army. I agree there's no money, but I also admit to the minister that under these circumstances he's doing a huge job. I said or so, I am experiencing this report in a way and as President Mesic's report because he is the Supreme Commander of the Constitution, and therefore, in the whole system, I am very involved and therefore I believe that it should be supported, but it is important that the system endures as it is for two, three, four years, so I guess we'll be a little better off and not stop this reconstruction, and from the great stories of modernization without the Croatian military industry, it's illusory to speak at all. In the future, more money will surely go for wages, severances, food, mainly there should be an emphasis on severance, and even less will be for equipment and therefore, if the army wants to modernise, there are only two solutions. So the domestic military industry and let's try to put under two, part of these military properties into operation because what they look like today really doesn't make any sense anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54701	Thank you, dear colleague. Correction of an incorrect quote, a respected colleague of Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54702	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Kramarić speaking of the rockets of these 5,100... Cain. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] General, I apologize. He said those missiles ended up in Bosnia and Herzegovina. They're not in Bosnia. They're in Macedonia. You can't do it without Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54703	Thank you for the correct and concrete correction. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, dear colleague Ferenchak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54704	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. Our benches received an annual report on the preparedness of the defence system, on the implementation of the Staff Policy and the overall state of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia with a report on the violation of the defence plan and defence preparations. The author of this report says in the introduction that it shows changes made since the last report, but unfortunately these changes are much more with a negative sign, and only a few with a positive sign. The strategic goal of the Republic of Croatia is to join NATO, but the reform and readiness of the Armed Forces and the IORH themselves are far from the standards of the Atlantic Alliance. There are talk of drawing up guidelines, plans, preparation and reports, but there are no concrete actions in this direction. The 50th page of the report is that the situation in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia remains bad, and the main problem is the technical limitations of equipment. The necessary supplies of fuel and food are minimal, and perhaps the biggest problem and the lack of vision is the fact that key documents of the development of the Armed Forces have not been brought in, and as an excuse, it is claimed that these documents are not yet 15 years old, so no big dust should be raised around it. Until the recent primary interests and objectives of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia are no longer current because it is unlikely for... military threats, but given the fact that the Republic of Croatia has no plan to act in direct situations and disasters such as terrorist attacks and floods and earthquakes, and what is now becoming the primary task and interest of the Armed Forces, I do not know how to interpret statements from the ministry, quote: "That Croatian Armed Forces knows where they are going and what they want to achieve. This means that the Armed Forces in today's organisational form and state of training and preparedness can do their job." The end of the quote. From this report that is before us, we at the HNS are reading exactly the opposite conclusions, nor does the ministry have a vision or strategy where and how it wants to go or at least not presented it to us in this House of Commons. In accordance with the practice of the countries of the Atlantic Alliance and the MORH, and the MORH launched an audit of the existing situation of the Armed Forces. So in the first half of 2005, the first... Defense. [[You don't understand.]] The document draws conclusions such as the fullness of the Armed Forces professional composition and... The reserve stresses the development of the ability to provide international military operations and the working capacity to participate in non-war operations. [[You don't understand.]] It is also concluded that the Armed Forces will maintain the border structure and reduce the number of commanding units and that the MORH will pass the process of reorganisation. I would like to stress here that the HNS, and in particular in some ways the MPs have been insisting for years that the manual composition be abolished, and that the military is professionalised while today's current current has been resisted by all forces but we hope that it will now adhere to our proposals. As we read further in the report, throughout the text, the most used is the condicional "to bring", "to make", and the way the Resorient Ministry and the Government think to achieve these goals are not at all clear, and among the lines it is read that they themselves do not know how to start, let alone how to finish this responsible job. If we look at the State budget for 2006 we will see that promotion and information services are increased from 621 thousand to 3 million 518 thousand kuna, intellectual services to a million 769 thousand kuna. These figures clearly show how they actually think to make the necessary changes, or through the media, the existing state is constantly improving while reality is much different. In Vesnik, we keep reading praises about our army and so is today's newspaper and also in the "Vjesnik" of the 21st pompous title, says "MORH will build military halls for the 21st century". An improvement in standards and life in the Armed Forces is announced where it is primarily one of the key projects of the resolution ministry. On the basis of this article, a number of questions may be asked in view of the large amount of illogicality, but I only ask one question. Where will the MORH finance the construction of these facilities when there is no budget for it at all? After all, if by some miracle they find funds for the military of the 21st century, then why don't they also find the means to modernize weapons, educate people, pay more officers and other employees, and not talk about what my colleagues here have already said that in all cities throughout Croatia we pass military facilities that no one uses, which are mockery and fail, and certainly have a useful civilian purpose. Moreh could bring so much needed extra-political revenue, but our government and the resolution ministry have been thinking and doing nothing about it for two years. It has been found, according to decent data, that more than 300 military facilities are no longer in use. The Army has abandoned them, and almost a thousand people are held daily. We pay their salaries, we pay their directors, we pay their utility fees instead of bringing them money, they're being spent on a budget that's not enough anyway. For years we've been listening to the same story, for years it's been pretending to be a bad situation, and we've been witnessing that even the simplest steps to improve the situation aren't being taken. Finally, he refers to the above - mentioned article just one more sentence. We think we should finally stop this unfounded... self-reliance on big and wonderful plans and projects without concrete moves and results. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The process of joining NATO according to this report is going well with the very praises of Brussels. I'm curious about when it's like there's no more NATO access. NATO's expert team is a working material, a long-term development plan for the Armed Forces from 2006 to 2015, which has received a passing assessment, but with the basis and prerequisite to respect the key assumption that 2% of the military is allocated from GDP. But if you look at the percentage of the MORH budget in GDP since this government's arrival, it keeps falling. And what's in the budget is spent on wrong purposes. For the illustration in 2003, the proportion of the financing of the MORH was 2.1%, 2004. 1.8, 2005. 1.6 and 1.7% are estimated in 2006. How much further do we solve the MORH budget with a reduction in the capacity to improve, invest in modernising equipment and infrastructure, and reduce funds for international co-operation, and with so much increase for example, office material, media promotion, intellectual services will find it difficult for our Armed Forces to reach the minimum level of the Atlantic Alliance. If we take into account the fact that the budget is seemingly increased and coast guard expenditures, we get the result that achieving the goals and world military standards is so far unattainable. The sharens and flashes of presentations and declarative support will not provide us with a membership card in the Atlantic Alliance. Furthermore, we must look back at the assessment of the armed forces' combat preparedness. On all sides, there is talk of the age of tanks, combat vehicles, aviation, the Navy is still unable to carry out military tasks due to the age of ships and the irregular partial repair. Only a little improvement in the Air Force. The MiGs and helicopters were completed, but it was started in the last term. The equipment supply plan rarely mentions the possibility to involve domestic companies in military production, which would certainly have positive economic effects. The most public talk is about this part of the report, and it is also potential by the ministry because electricity is a legacy and is obsolete, and the minister himself declares that he would rather invest in science than in tanks. I absolutely agree with him, I support him in that, but again unfounded promiscuity and talk. In this case, the Resort Ministry cannot do anything about the education of its people because there is no money in its budget for it. So we're just staying on the story. A very interesting part of the report is the one about the mental combat preparedness of employees. It is indicative that most of the illnesses were due to mental disorders, and even 80% of them have long-term... The ministry tells us that the Armed Forces are resting on the people, not tech. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These reports are killing themselves because I wonder what kind of military human force it is if it's a large part of that same people for long-term mental illness. Here we can also ask ourselves how it is even possible that there can be someone in the active military service with mental disorders. It also raises the question of how to reduce the number of employees in the MRLs, and it is said that the administrative part of the employees is the most numerous, that they will go to its reduction, and on the other hand the company "Patter Services" which, by the logic of things, does not require administrative staff services because it is said that the company will do security jobs. What, then, is the purpose and purpose of setting up such a company? In addition, we know that there is already a state-owned company called the AKD that does such services, why do things double? On the one hand, the Croatian Privatisation Fund is trying to privatise state-owned companies, and on the other hand, the state itself is setting up new companies in its possession. It would be good to work on coordinating the ministry's work within this government. And finally, to conclude, unfortunately, it's not good and it's a little bit of work to fix something. Bringing key strategic documents of the reform plan and the meaningful allocation of budgets is something that any government can and must influence. Our experts have been praised in this report and not just by ourselves. Then why don't we use their expertise, knowledge, skills first for our own progress so that we really have what to present in Brussels with an actual factual state, not to put all our strengths into advertising alone without real background and results. The Croatian People's Party Club can accept this Report exclusively as information on the state of play, with strong criticism that nothing seems to repair the situation while the vision continues and in which it does not exist at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54705	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, five minutes to 7:00. The deal is to work until 7:00. We've got another club but he'd have a right 20 minutes, so obviously at the agreed time he can't finish. So we're gonna interrupt the session here today. We'll be back at 9:30 tomorrow. First of all, it's the Independent Representatives' Club, the esteemed colleague Glavas. Thank you very much. Good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54706	I'm opening a session. The proposal for an annual report on the preparedness of the defence system, the implementation of the Staff Policy and the overall situation in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, with a report on the implementation of the defence plan and defence preparations and a proposal for conclusions on the obligation of the Government of Croatia to draw up proposals for defence strategies and national security strategies. Dear Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54707	Mr. President, Croatia has been without a child counsel for several months. Croatia's government announced 10 days ago that it has a candidate's name. We see that the candidate withdrew his candidacy yesterday, so I would like to ask you for this House and for the public whether we will have a chance at this session to resolve the matter of the Ombudsman for children because I think we all agree that this person is very important in Croatia today.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54708	If the Government submits the proposal, it will be included immediately in the agenda. If the government withdraws the proposal, or if the candidate withdraws the proposal, then a new proposal should be made. I know that there was a public call, that there were 15 or 16 candidates for the child's attorney, that on this basis the Government proposed one person. Now it's supposed to be the person who resigned. So, there's a situation where the government proposes a candidate when he comes. We'll put him on the agenda and discuss it. A club of representatives of independent representatives, respected representative Branimir Glavas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54709	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the Independent Club, I will say a few thoughts of the Independent Club and my personal thinking, given that I was also a participant in the creation of the Croatian Army at times when in this assembly in the 1990s, most or many of the representatives of that option, who had lost the trust of the electoral body in the first democratic elections, were against such steps as we had taken and which we intended to do on the basis of the pre-election programme by introducing multilaterals in the then Socialist Republic of Croatia. So, from the first days I was a participant in the creation of this Croatian Armed Forces. First, in the light of the takeover of the then Secretariat of the Interior of the Republic, the Socialist Republic of Croatia, which was an instrument, one repressive apparatus of the then dying state, in which the new government did not have any interference for the first year, no influence in the sense of putting that repressive apparatus or a security apparatus at the time of democratic changes under constitutional control on the basis of the newly adopted Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. I was also a participant in the creation of the National Guard Assembly as the previous Croatian Army in the 1990s and '91s. year, so I was also a participant and made my modest contribution to the creation of a Croatian armed force in the form that existed in these war and war years, so here I was, in some form, in my public and political work through this Assembly and other institutions of government, also a participant in the creation of this system. So I was in a position to assess and assess what it was like to be as good as my ability to be a military expert by profession, and given the situation I was in, I had to deal with certain things that came from this field of military science. I believe that the Croatian Army and the armed force from the first days through the police, the National Guard Assembly and the Croatian Army until the end of the process of liberating occupied space and ending the process of peaceful reintegration on 15 January '98. the years fully met expectations and justified their existence in this form. But personally, since I also lived in the middle of a war and war environment, in the middle of a long proximity to the occupation of a good part of Croatian territory. So, practically every day I was in a situation to experience everything that was carrying life on the front line of the battlefield. I'll just say one thing about how I thought and then in the mid-1990s. So even before the action “Blash” and “Storm” and the release of a large part of occupied Croatian spaces and territories took place. I think it was '94. In the course of a reconstruction of the Croatian Army under these war circumstances and war conditions, one day I was called by Minister, late Minister Gojko Sušak, therefore war minister, a man who created the Croatian Army, a man who really contributed enormously to the formation of the Croatian Army as a powerful armed force that carried out its historic task of liberating occupied space in the mid-90s. He called and asked me, then I was the mayor of Osijek-Baranja and asked what I wanted and how I look at the vision of the development of the city of Osijek, Osijek-Baranja County and that part of Eastern Slavonia, given the future stationing or establishment of the seat of Croatian armed forces in that part of Croatia, asking me if I wanted an army in the city of Osijek or somewhere further in eastern Croatia. Although more than a third of Croatia's state territory was not free at the moment, it was occupied, more than a third of the space of Osijek-Baranja County was under occupation and practically a kilometer away from the city of Osijek alone, then still with heavy weapons placed, so the occupational artillery with which the pipes were directed towards the city of Osijek and other free parts of Croatia, I thought that the military or military headquarters of the more significant units was not the future of the city of Osijek and Slavonia, I felt that the vast number of properties that had been exclusively military purposes practically for the last hundred years in the city of Osijek and Osijek-Baranja County should indeed not be in the function of the Croatian army as the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in the future but that these facilities should be released and re-replaced and handed over to citizens of the city of Osijek, Osijek-Baranja County, Slavonia and the Republic of Croatia. I am not looking at the future of the city of Osijek as a city in which it will be stationed and concentrated by a large number of soldiers in which the stationary and concentrated armed forces of the Republic of Croatia will be established, but I want to make the city of Osijek a modern open city in which it will be the headquarters and centre of the University of Osijek, in which these material assets, material treasures, in which these properties, which have practically served for military purposes since the time of Austria-Hungarian, old Yugoslavia, other Yugoslavia, do not even speak because all living properties have been usurped and put into office of the then JNA, I thought that these properties should be handed over to the university. Then again in '94. I initiated the year towards the Croatian Government, more specifically according to the then chief of Croatian Armed Forces, the late President and Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces under the wartime circumstances of the free Croatian state, to submit these properties, this ownership of the Ministry of Defence, that is, under these war circumstances and war conditions to the function of citizens, in the function of science and in the function of the economy. It took me two years from this initiative, so my proposal to Minister Shusek did not station the headquarters and command of the armed forces for that part of Croatia in Osijek immediately came upon the same time of understanding and support and was not a designated city of Osijek as the headquarters of the wartime, or military command in that part of Croatia, but it was already stationed and situated in the city of Djakov and then the choir area was established in the city of Djakov, and not in the city of Osijek, which was why many of them were then unclear and had no understanding of what they considered to be on the front line of the battlefields of the battlefield and that it was necessary, and that it was objective and at that moment, a large number of Croatian soldiers were stationed in the city of Osijek, so it somehow resulted as being logical that in the city of Osijek to be the command of the assembly area. My initiative towards the first Croatian president, Dr. Tudjman fell to fertile soil, fell to fertile soil and came upon first understanding, at the highest level in the Republic of Croatia and confirmed our thinking, respecting our civilian proposals to free these objects, to move the army out of these facilities and to surrender these objects to the function of science, the function of economic development in the city of Osijek and Osijek-Baranja County. This initiative was also crowned in late '96. In early '97. By signing the contract with the Croatian Government and signing the contract between the Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Science and County as a unit of local self-government and state administration then gravitating in the Slavonian space, these 4.5 counties, where we attended the moment of the surrender of the military complex of the city of Osijek as a function of science and economic function. This is what I remind myself of precisely because I want to stress that we were thinking in times of war when we lived in a situation of war, when we lived in moments when a third of Croatian territory was still occupied, and that we did not question at all or express the inconceivability of the development of future events, i.e. the final release of occupied Croatian spaces. Thus, even then, we thought of one way that here in the Croatian metropolis did not get the feeling that this is what local politicians in the city of Osijek and the County of Osijek-Baranja think. Here sits the war mayor and the mayor of this time in these benches, here I am sitting and I have acted as the government at the county level and I was some sort of bond between this political authority and Zagreb, but we agreed on it at the first moment and from the first moment that we should do everything to put military forces in function of science, put into function of the economy, put into function the development of the war of the destroyed city of Osijek, and make the city of Osijek a seat and centre of future economic development, headquarters and the centre of science for Slavonia and Baranja, which is a prerequisite for economic development, and I think that we did it really in one way that got the full effects and results. After that, we witnessed occasional such cases that the Ministry of Defence gave up certain properties and handed over certain properties to local self-government units in other parts of the Republic of Croatia. However, I believe that such cases were very rare and were exceptions and did not become a practice of the Ministry of Defence and the practice of the Croatian Government in the past term, at least did not stop, but the Ministry of Defence was selfishly trying to keep as many of these treasures, these properties, and assets in its portfolio, and I believe that this will gain greater importance and fight for some better status within the Croatian government, regardless of which political option formed that government. As well as the fact that in the last two years or so last year we have not received a report on the state of the Ministry of Defence and the Croatian Army, we are now in a situation where the two-year report shows enough and confirms where the Ministry of Defence is today and how the Ministry of Defence sees the first man of the Croatian Government and what position it is for him now and objectively is not difficult to predict the future of the Ministry of Defence in the future political life of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the relationship between the Croatian government itself, the budgetary items in the 2004 budget, for 2005 and 2006 which relate to the Ministry of Defence speak simply how much care, attention and the perspective of the Ministry of Defence and how much care and attention the president of the Croatian Government is investing or paying attention to the Ministry of Defence. So, it is questionable, indeed, and it is questionable what the future is and what awaits the Ministry of Defence in all these processes that follow, and these are the talks that follow over the next few years which relate to the entry into the European Union. These are the talks and negotiations that follow for Croatia's NATO entry. I don't think we've been well aware of what the consequences are and what is the price Croatia will have to pay and what are the pluses and which are the minuses of these integrations. I am not opposed to Croatia's entry into NATO, I am not opposed to Croatia's entry into the European Union. But I believe that we should objectively and realistically evaluate today this segment of the state government, this state resources within the Croatian government and say objectively and critically what this segment of the Croatian government really belongs to. So here's the situation in the Croatian army I think we can read from today's newspaper. The municipal court has determined that the state must pay the young man a fee, and half a million kuna must be paid to a raped handbook of the state. So, today's newspaper title best paints the situation in the Croatian army. Someone's gonna say it's an exception, it's an extreme case. It may be an extreme case of such, but similar identical cases since the unequal handling of mine-explosive means of the handbook, from an unprofessional, unskilled, unconscious relationship of the officer's staff to a business that behaves within the Croatian Armed Forces and which is also the first thing that I mentioned, and those things that I didn't mention in any case are irrevocable facts. So, this is the situation in the Croatian military and I am rightly wondering if this percentage spent from the state budget has its own justification even though it is moving in some kind of gauge of modern European countries. Does that have an excuse? I believe that there is no excuse and that we cannot close our eyes to the fact that we are moving in some percentages and gauges of modern European countries but the question is what is behind it. After that, we have outdated technology, behind this we have the consumption of these funds by huge work and a huge percentage only for personal incomes and the Croatian military today is much weaker than it was in positions, I would dare say, even in 1992. I'm not gonna say 1991, but in 1992, I'm sure. And huge funds are being spent. Big assets are being spent. The question is also raised: the roles and justifications of serving a civil military term. Why harass this young man who serves a military term and at the same time has no use for it. They are personally sent, granted civil military service, and for six months there is no use in any institution that they are referred to in service of the military deadline and neither are they allowed to use that time to perfect, educate, acquire any knowledge or prepare for an independent better life. I think it's past the time when sovereignty was defended by cannon pipes. I believe that it was a time when sovereignty was defended by armed forces, but that sovereignty was defended by protecting national interests, the development of the economy, the development of science, the promotion of knowledge, and therefore I absolutely advocate that Croatia would prepare itself during which this segment of state administration and state government would die unquestionably. Therefore, Croatia must join a thorough reorganisation, meet the minimum NATO requires to join NATO, meet the minimum in order to join and be accepted by the European Union and the European integration process to end in a quality positive way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54710	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54711	Thank you very much. I am correcting the incorrect allegations of a respected representative when he said: "Today's article on the rape of a handbook paints the situation in the Croatian military, as well as the unprofessional handling of explosive devices." It's not true that it's a picture of the condition. On the monitoring of incidents in the Croatian Army, this number of frequencies, the intensity of these incidents is exactly the same as in other European armies. So I would not say that it paints but says that our army, the Croatian army, fits into the security part of what is being ruled and in other armies in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54712	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Miroslav Korenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54713	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must say, speaking of the civil service of a fellow soldier, Glavas said they have no use either for society as a whole or for those who serve the military term. I must say that it is precisely the case of the Office of State Administration in Varazdinska, Varazdin County, where people who were very responsible for civil service and I must say very well have carried out their duties and professionally, those who graduated from colleges did not serve the military deadline, but they did very much assist the Office of State Administration in their civil service. ... Thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54714	Defence Minister Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54715	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'll take advantage of the possibility that after the presentation of the representatives of all clubs, I'll briefly look back on certain views. Talk about the situation in the Croatian Army and the state of the individual system can only be discussed in relation to whether the system works and whether or not the system fulfils or fails to fulfil the tasks entrusted to it. And now I use the opportunity simply to ask the question that the Croatian Army has not met both in the country and abroad? There is not a single task set up by the Croatian Army, with all the difficulties we have, which are mainly related to the obsolescence of the technique I spoke about in the opening presentation, which the Croatian Army did not fulfil in the country in terms of training issues, as regards helping to solve, helping civil institutions to resolve the situation of found, especially fire protection, cleaning the channel network in order to try to establish a zero state, participating in peacekeeping missions where we get very high grades, adapting, adapting the organisational system to join NATO. If someone knows that the Croatian Army has not completed one of the tasks set, I am open to debate and we can pollemize about it. A few MPs spoke about the donation of real estate. The fact that in our draft long-term plan for the development of Croatian armed forces, which will soon be held for discussion in this high home as a final state, is a very small number of properties to be used by the Croatian Army. Moreh doesn't own military facilities. Moreh is a user. It is owned by the Republic of Croatia which manages these properties through the Government or in the preparation of the Government Office for State Property Management. And in any case, I agree absolutely with the representative... which says that a large number of these properties are potential for industrial development. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When the MORH doesn't go in relation to someone he said he loves, he doesn't like units of local self-government but the fact is that at this point he's burdened with keeping objects he's not currently using. We can't afford to pull a guard out of objects that we're not already using right now and leave to devastation, destruction and other illegal acts. But the fact is that it's organisationally difficult, it creates difficulties both financially and organisationally. But I believe that many of these properties will also be found in quality projects that will be proposed by the Government through the Government Office for State Property Management and local self-government in all parts of Croatia. In the term of this government, military properties were given exclusively as industrial zones based on programmes and military facilities to create better material conditions for higher school education in the Republic of Croatia, and I am deeply convinced that this will result in the long term. A report on the engagement of Croatian soldiers in ISAF will be found here in front of the Croatian Parliament because this is also the obligation of the Ministry of Defence or the Government of the Republic of Croatia as point 3 of the last Decision on the referral of members of the Croatian Army to the ISAF peace mission that we made in July 2005 after the completion of each rotation, and in February is the change of rotation. We need to report what we did in the six-month term in the peace mission. And that report will be found here. Dear Representative Kramaric used one term "MORH has been fired" on the programme for the detachment of staff from the MRLs. He didn't fire Moreh. The staff detachment procedure has so far gone exclusively except for those who have left the system in some form of tight procedure, all went on personal request. Why? Because we have established standards for professional development of active military personnel and we stick to these standards consistently. And people simply define themselves and see if their perspective in this system is two years, three years or longer. And they apply and use the possibility of going along with the encouraging severances that are planned at the time of designing this project as an incentive for new self-employment. Normally, much depends on the material condition. I said in the introduction that the Croatian government wants to come in the short term and return to those declared up to 2% share in the gross social product in the financing of the defence budget and I am deeply convinced that we will do so. A little bit about scientific work spoken of by the esteemed representative Caine. At this point, the Morh has, as one of its founding units, the Institute for Defence Studies, however, that institute must be harmonised and must operate under the rules of the Law on Science and it cannot expect the funds from the MORH. He must compete with his projects for the funds achieved. But in response, no project that came from that institute has been rejected in Morh because there is no money for it. The problem is whether people who are ready for competition at the Institute today, whether they are inventive enough and whether they offer quality programmes at all and the Institute will also be found in the framework of the Morh structural unit reform. What is most important to say is the best form of professional training, the adoption of new knowledge. These are the gentlemen representing the international military exercise. Here we are testing how much we have adopted standard operating methods of leadership and command, and please when the proposal comes, when the Government makes a proposal to maintain the military exercises of the Croatian Army, please in that part of full support because it is the best form and learning, improvement, but normal and testing of adopted knowledge and comparisons with members of the Armed Forces of other countries. In the end, the raped handbook is the July 2002 event, but equally us, it's a disgrace to everyone who's been in the system since then and today. Only in consultation that we have to see what to do to the State Attorney's Office so that we don't lose our right to the perpetrator of this act, and I absolutely again regret it in that case and in some other cases, and in December 2004, we publicly announced how many of these cases were recorded and what the military police were doing about it, because some kind of fam was being created that these cases wanted to cover up and to cover up. The explosion and unprofessional handling of Ubs' last unfortunate event was in a military in Ogulin. I don't remember exactly whether in 2000 or 2001, but it's also problematic when the Chief Chief of Staff's orders we had in Slunj are not respected, so the hand soldier himself runs the truck, so that's what happens when he slips off the road and seriously injured the hand soldiers. We don't have virtual soldiers and we don't want virtual soldiers. We have soldiers with all our virtues but also weaknesses as well as each of us and normally that these extraordinary events occasionally occur, but we have shown in this report a precise picture of the situation, we have strengthened and given the order for stronger controls and I am pleased that this chart is still going down, but normally this is also the consequence and better structure of the members of the Armed Forces because they remain more educated people, remain younger people and, naturally, it is also a sign that such extraordinary, unwanted events in the future will be less. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54716	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54717	Thank you, Mr. President. He says, the respected minister, we cannot give in to the real estate of the MORH to the economy or others because it is owned by the Republic of Croatia. As users, we cannot abandon them, but we must keep them, and in such a way, huge costs are created for the Republic of Croatia. But that's not true. What you can and what you have to do is give these properties that are no longer interesting only to the MORH a list of these properties. It's a process that began precisely with the Government's Property Office so that this particular office could either give these properties to local self-government or sell to other resolutions, other ministries that need these properties. Let's just think of the entire Selska that MORH then gave up to the Ministry of Justice and just one part of the reform in this particular sense of building just started from the Morh properties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54718	Thank you very much. It's not even a correction. Thank you very much. That's enough. My colleague Antičević, this is no correction to the incorrect allegations. It's just opposition to each other and putting on another one of the proposals and in the future stick to it. I'll measure you. You can't debate like that. You disagree with the Minister about the purpose of real estate, ransom, etc. It's not an incorrect claim, it's a discrepancy. On behalf of the promoter, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54719	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, and I am also pleased that our debate today is being followed by representatives of the Union of Military Officers and Deputys who are normally interested in the situation in the Armed Forces and for this part of the process under the quotes of the re-organisation of the Armed Forces because 600 of them will soon be out of service at the Ministry of Defense. But I'm saying we'll talk about it later. On behalf of the Croatian Party Club, it is my first pleasure that the representatives of the clubs have spoken as we think, which is that the issue of defence and the issue of national security is not a party issue, but that it is a matter of special importance, means national importance for Croatian citizens and for the Croatian state. So far, the debate of all representatives of the clubs has pointed to all the weaknesses we have, whether it is a system of defence preparations, i.e. the defence preparedness of the state, whether it is related to a specific situation in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. All this debate suggests that we can no longer sit and look at a situation like this, nor can we make all of this a responsible defence minister. So it is high time that, on the basis of the established factual situation, we began to take concrete measures to strengthen and strengthen the defence readiness of the state and to implement the real reform, i.e. the reconstruction of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. It is therefore important to say the following things. So, it is necessary, it is obviously necessary what we have proposed, the defence strategy is not what, it is inconclusive, we have it, but we do not implement it, and it is obvious that it does not fit the situation in which Croatia is located and therefore we must define the main principles and direction of action with the defence strategy. The first thing that matters is what we do with the Armed Forces. In order to start a strategy, we need to determine exactly what the objectives of the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces are, which means that we will get armed forces that will be numerically small, but which will be equipped and trained to carry out all their tasks. How do we do that with a strategy we have to answer. So the funds from the state budget aren't enough, and we just know that even that part of the resources that the Ministry of Defence gets for all these intentions is essentially 70, over 70% is spent on wages, material and other costs, and therefore there is already no money available for modernising the Armed Forces, to obtain what is necessary. And when it comes to what is necessary, obviously, that, if it is a military air force, it is necessary to have at least one squadron of supersonic fighter aircraft, it is necessary to have helicopters both decant and these other species to be used for other purposes and rescue protection actions and everything else. When it comes to the Navy, we know what our situation is. We have to go to the development of the Navy, but in parallel, it means together with the creation of a coast guard, that all those ships that are going to work will be in function both in function. So, the Navy will maintain it, and it will also be used in the system of action means protection and rescue, and we are looking for both the economic belt and everything that awaits us. It's also the same situation when it comes to the Land Army. We need to determine exactly the situations that matter to us here. If we don't go today, it's hard to maintain a system this bad. Look, it's impossible to reflect because it's visible that there are no amounts of means to reflect. Therefore, the only source of funds that can be used are valuable military properties, as Germany has done and modernised, namely reforming its Armed Forces and yet to fill the budget. Unfortunately, exactly, I wish it hadn't been so, but the current system of availability with the team... The military property was a donation system, by and large a known donor, and the military had no use for it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, all these municipalities and bastards in many cases went on top of the Ministry of Defence because they didn't pay communal fees, water and everything they accepted. It's real and it's reality and, so it's the only one, that possibility is that either by renting or renting, means one government strategy in that part, it can give how much of it will be in that way, but not selling it for sale, not renting it for rent, but it will determine how and how we can implement that modernisation. So, you don't have to rush in here, but you have to go ahead and figure it out. And then we get this part that we're finally going to start to restructure the Armed Forces because we're going to have a vision and a long-term plan of how and in what way, then we need to bring the total numerical size of the Armed Forces. Whether it'll be 16 grand, make the pyramid and the structure of the acts and everything else. Because it means reducing the number of members of the Armed Forces if we have an out-of-date technique. So we know how to do things in the world. If you have weaker weapons and military equipment, you must have more members of the Armed Forces. If you have better weapons and military equipment, you must have experts, meaning trained highly qualified to use or operate these weapons and military equipment. Therefore, the situation is quite clear. That is why we have also suggested that for the sake of military officials and others, this part of the reconstruction, or reduction, is a clear reduction, to stop for a few months until we agree on these crucial things that we have to go into. And now we're talking about the second part of the strategy that needs to be developed, and that's about the country's defence preparations. We have to be aware, everything is done, so there are two situations when the defence system is used in Croatia, it is a state of war and a state of direct threat and independence... But we made a mistake. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We don't have that state of direct circumstances or extraordinary opportunities that all countries have in the world, which is the situation that can most often happen to us, about terrorism, about all of these situations that the defence minister has been talking about. But the responsibility that we don't have a defense plan doesn't come from a minister, with all the other ministers. He is responsible for what will be done within the Ministry of Defence. But he can't even file a report on the state's defence preparedness, because we know what the components of the defense plan are. So that's where the finance minister is responsible. Every minister in his department. What's our stock situation? We know. The Deputy Prime Minister said the situation was more than bad. So, the defence plan, we don't need it for the direct threat of independence, unity of the state or war. We need a defence plan to act in actions of protection and rescue in the event of natural disasters, in the event of fires and everything else, because then those parts of the defence plan, the action of civil protection, the operation of other structures, without that plan of preparedness of the mobilization plan are applied. That's why we need it. So let's be aware, someone was talking about the case of the United States and those situations they had. You know why this happened to them? It happened to them because they sent the National Guard to Iraq. That's why it happened to them, and they knew what their situation was with those parts that the dams wouldn't hold. But look at every situation with us. Where's our civilian protection? In the war we had her thank God, here she is, and President Shakespeare has both generals and ministers. Civil protection was ready for us in the war and she did all her parts. But after that, civil protection becomes a dead letter on paper. So, we need to be aware and realistic, let's draw a line, the situation in the Armed Forces is not good, it's unsatisfactory, it's a situation related to the defence preparedness of the state. We don't need to talk about it politically, talk real, draw a line and go to that part. It's also related to national security. You can see for yourself how much is going on, what's going on, what's going on, how it's going on, how it's going on, how it's going on, how it's going on, how it's going to be, how it's going on, how it's going to be, how it's going on, how it's going on, how it's going on, how it's going on, how it's going to be, how the police can't react. That's the worst thing that's ever been made public. Therefore, we must build national security on the backbone. Croatian citizen, police, intelligence community, government and government bodies. Because if they have timely information, so it's about prevention, then they'll be able to contain everything in due time and put the system into operation. But the Ministry of the Interior needs to be reorganized. It is a bad principle that the current principle of police law has been abandoned, the neighborhood did not give the right solutions because it is fashioned from the outside, and it does not correspond to the opportunities in Croatia. Here's so much for this part and for the direction of the debate, we'll do it later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54720	Thank you. Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54721	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here, our debate on the situation in the Armed Forces enters the second day, and I am a little dissatisfied that only a few speakers mentioned the main role of the Croatian army in the past and in the present. The main role in the past was to free Croatia from Serbian aggression, but it also plays a central role today. Exactly because these same hardworking, hardworking, professional people kick off parts of the state budget's cake, knowing it has priorities. So they deny it for the sake of economic development, investment from the budget, they deny it for the benefit of social programmes, they deny it in the recovery of war damage. Today's budget is about 4 billion kuna for the MORH. It is twice as much as what the budget sets out for the direct and indirect consequences of Serbian aggression and therefore I express my gratitude to these people, but it is time and time to invest some of the budget cakes in them. MORH and the Croatian Army differ from all defence systems in Europe because they were created in the war and therefore reorganisational changes are different than in the peacetime conditions of creating an army of other countries. We are aware that after she played her historic role in the liberation of Croatia, on January 15, 98, when it ended with the war integration of the Podunov, the reorganisation of the Croatian Army and the MORH began. I had the honor of participating in that. Within six months we established the first budget of the peacetime period, in the first six months we made orders through a public tender, in the first six months we recorded the state of technical equipment and made development plans, described and assessed properties etc. The reorganisation phase that is now in turn is much more complex, it is naturally conditioned by what is shown in this report, and I fully support this report because it is very high-quality and objective. It is today characterised by new conditions in which the policy of this part of Europe takes place, so instead of local dangers today we have global terrorism, today we have organised crime, today we have information uncertainty and everything mentioned in the report. But here I would still mention two things that should be more dominant and should be thought of. Namely, the assessment of the direct conventional threat of our locality here is characterised as, quote: "It must not be completely excluded" and that's good. Because all those who believe that local dangers are a thing of the past must remember that we still have major unresolved political problems in the environment, followed by Montenegro's referendum on secession, followed by a revision of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, followed by a resolution of Kosovo's fate. These are all local threats that we must take into account and which will surely be resolved in the future, but should not be rushed to changes that should not be in line with this. I'd like to warn you about combat preparedness that's characterized by very bad numbers. So our officers, the officers have about the same age as our tanks, it's about 35 to 36 years old. One needs to be rejuvenated. Let us remember the description of our air forces which are unable to control and defend the system 3 thousand meters higher, let us remember the Croatian Navy which is not capable of a missile strike, for anti-maritime and anti-mining combat. It will all solve a budget that we must comply not only with NATO's demands but even more than that because the military is developing. So we have 1.7% of our military budget. NATO is asking for 2%, and I'm convinced that in the coming years we have to allocate at least 2.5%, which means somewhere around 5 billion kuna per year to improve this technical unpreparedness over the next ten years. But what's much more important than technical readiness is personnel. We have today found that the training of the reserve system has not been implemented, that many have been reduced from a thinner reserve, that the mobilization readiness of reserve units, I quote: "is insufficient". It's much more dangerous than these technical disadvantages. Because it's just the personnel that they are, and we proved that in the Homeland War, which are able if they are of quality and ours were others, to compensate for technical unpreparedness. Therefore, in the projections of the transition to the professional army, when Croatia will defend 16 thousand soldiers and 8 thousand members of the active reserve should take into account three more moments. The first is the length of our border, it is the longest border on the surface in Europe, and we need to take this into account and slow down the dynamics of the abolition of the manual, i.e. the abolition of the manual service of the military deadline. Second, demographic situation. Today, when we educate the young handbook, we reduce it for the next 30 to 40 years. He'll be 30 years from now. What will happen in 30 years with NATO and the European Union, we will not discuss it at all, but we know what will happen to the Croatian demographic situation. In 30 years, we're going to have 400 thousand less defense-able people because it's such a natal situation. In 30 years, we'll have 400 thousand more immigrants we don't even know whether or not they'll be educated in defense of potential threats to their future homeland. When we take that into consideration, then I think we should slow down with our screams, we'll cut the handbooks, freeze the handcuffs. We handcuffs must be kept at least 50% of our capacity today. We need to introduce exercises for all reserves, there we can copy a Swiss system that is comparable in the security environment to us even in a better situation, but we also need to change the attitude towards the Croatian military in our media from the ground up. When we read the texts about the Croatian Army, and this is very important, because public opinion is very much creating the psychological security of the Croatian Army, then 50% of these texts are negative. Why is it so, it is a matter of political debate, and not of experts, but in any case it is one of the key milestones that we must overcome, it is in the interest of the defence of the Croatian state. And in the end, I'm going to quote the text in this report. The vital interest of the Republic of Croatia is the survival of a sovereign, independent and territorial whole state. I would add, in our strategy that will be developed, this independence, this territorial integrity and this sovereignty we plan in 30, 40 and 50 years in advance. A mistake made today in the great desire for international integration can lead to underestimation of local threats, and this would be very dangerous. As a result, the mistakes that would be made today will be seen only in 3, 4 or 5 decades. And that's why I'm finishing up, the task, the creation of a defence strategy and the reorganisation of the Armed Forces is a task that does not suffer delays, but requires a broad debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54722	Thank you. A few replicas. The first is the respected representative Krešimir Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54723	Dear Mr. President, an important question raised by the distinguished representative Hebrang concerns the consequences of war damage and their impact on what can or cannot be invested in the defence system today. It's a question that unfortunately we haven't given enough attention to. The fact is, some estimates spoke about 50 billion material and other damages. And these are those financial resources which unfortunately the State budget of the Republic of Croatia has as a priority, and all other countries do not have transitions as an item in their national budget. The material damages, the rights of Croatian defenders, are of great importance, but the normal consequences of facts and wise and important political decisions are that the conditions of peace are today given priority in the limited state budget to those who created, defended and defended Croatia during the Homeland War. And these damages done to the Republic of Croatia significantly restrict the possibility of modernising the defence system of the Republic of Croatia in particular in the section relating to the modernisation of arms and military equipment. Today, other priorities in the overall state budget are also more important and important. And I'm going to say in the end, even though we have very limited resources in the state budget, we're going to have to pay a lot more attention to the efficient spending of these small state funds in the modernisation part, especially when we're making contracts with many companies that have so far shown that they are unable to justify the invested financial resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54724	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54725	Thank you very much. The presentation of Professor Cosic points to the key problem of today's strategy for the development of our Armed Forces. On the one hand, techniques that are in disastrously poor condition, on the other hand, neglecting exercise and maintaining conditioning preparation, and on the third handcuff reduction. The first category, which is a technique, is certainly the victim of the post-war development of Croatia, and therefore I reiterate. In our media, it should not only be pointed out in our public that the Croatian Army has been a pillar of defence against Serbian aggression,... /The speaker has been excluded and subsequently involved. / Disowns parts of the budget cake precisely because he knows that the priorities of investment in the economy, investment in social and especially the problems caused by the war. That is why I think that in our public appearances we should point out as an example of the very staff of today's Croatian army that accept this on themselves and therefore make more efforts to compensate for such a lack. But it also needs to be looked after rather dangerously, I would say, the advice we sometimes receive from our friends. One of the tips was international institutions that Croatia does not need aviation. Even one, while I was defence minister, was that Croatia did not need a navy, because by entering integration, all this is being solved internationally. It's a dangerous trap regardless of the current economic inability. The strategy must include the Croatian Navy and Croatian aviation and at least 2.5% of the budget for the Croatian Army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54726	Another replica, the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54727	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'm glad that Mr. Hebrang also correctly located problems and situations related to our current situation in the Armed Forces, namely the defence strategy and national security. I am particularly pleased because Mr. Hebrang, as Minister and 91, personally participated in the development of all documents of the defence plan at the level of the state and his ministry. And he set up such a health care service that our victims in the Homeland War were far less involved in such a health care. I must also say that it is a shame that he left the post of defence minister because he was launched with this process. So, I'm glad we're talking here now as people, aware of the situation, not as politicians, that we have to draw a line and go to the development of a defence strategy, a national security strategy, have an armed force that will have all three branches because it doesn't defend us either. So, have all three branches that will be in service of the defence of Croatia. Thought deeply about all other moves and used for this part the issue of military property as one part where it can be separated for modernising weapons and military equipment. That is the only way, so the responsible relationship of all of us Croatian representatives can help the government get out of these problems. Because if we don't do it now, this is about time. If we don't make the situation worse in the next report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54728	And the third replica, the esteemed representative of Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54729	Well, God forbid Croatia stands out 5 billion kunas for the military, as Mr Hebrang says, or as Mr Hebrang hopes. Well, it's just that Croatia can't take it right now. We would destroy the social, health care, restoration. It's better to single out one billion kunas for health care, education, infrastructure than for the military. I say that in the years to come, we'll be less single for the army. Amongst one of the bankrupt health and military, any rational government will choose health care. Between the situation in the pension fund and the military, any rational government will choose pensions. Croatia's only solution has to increase the gross social product, and to maintain further allocations for an army of 1.8%, no longer. With a larger gross social product and 1.8% of gross social product will be more for the military. On the other hand, the Croatian Government today has 2,3 billion kuna from the budget plus one 6 billion kuna via Croatian Waters and Croatian Roads. So who do you take now? Well, we don't have the right, we don't have the legitimacy to keep any development. And says Mr. Hebrang, thank the military for accepting on themselves, etc. They have nothing to accept, they have to listen. Well, now we're not some military state, but simply a citizen, and she understands those positions, and so she has to behave in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54730	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54731	Thank you very much. Mr. Cain clearly does not distinguish pears from apples or is understood in the organization of the army, and it is good that he is away from that organization. Namely, speaking of the percentage of the budget, NATO demands 2%. I didn't say that I, and 2% of you are Mr. Cain 4 billion kuna, that's 300 million more than the Croatian Army gets today. That's what NATO requires for armies that have a normal tradition of development. For an army that still needs its 36-year-old tanks, it takes at least 55% more than that, which is 5 billion kuna. Those five billion kunas, I listened to you so you listen to me, those five billion kunas won't take neither health care nor education nor anyone. Because the Croatian state will have 8 billion more in its budget next year than this year. So it's just a division. And one more thing Mr. Cain needs to know. The army is not a burden of one state. Because if she's smartly mastered with her capabilities she can be very much in the development service, both economics and sciences, so if you want the health care that we've proven and quoted all over the world. The Croatian Integrated Military Civilian System has shown great progress for all situations in which an emergency medical organisation is needed, prescribed and downloaded and in the magazine "Military Medicine" is recognised and recommended. Therefore, investment in the military is an investment in the security of the state, is an investment in the economy, in development, in science, so if you want to go to health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54732	Dear Representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54733	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Before us is the Proposal for an Annual Report on the preparedness of the defence system for the implementation of the Staff Policy and the overall situation in the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. First of all, it should be said that it is a quality material that, without excess words and explanations, clearly and realistically illustrates the situation and problems in the armed forces. As pleasantly as I am surprised by the quality of the report, I am almost equally concerned with the state we can read from this Report in the armed forces because the situation described is not great and it is seen here for the pessimists is catastrophic and under such a threatened country's security, and yet for the optimistic state for the country came out of war with all the problems facing in transition almost there are no bigger problems which, of course, I have none of the other problems, the truth is as usual somewhere in the middle. What I can understand, even though we need to change quickly, is the state of the technique of the spare parts of the supply of modern weapons necessary for the security and defence of the country, but because of the situation in which the economy is located from all the problems of the pores and simply in the state budget there is not enough money and I understand that, but in those segments where money is not so important that the country is safer, it is hard to agree with. What prompted me to participate in this debate is a defence policy and strategic planning where it is said that the Ministry of Defence in the fall of 2003 launched a strategic plan and reviewed the defence with the aim of addressing the existing state and directing further reform of the armed forces and the entire defence system. In particular, I am irritated by the part that says that the target size of the armed forces is 16 thousand active military personnel and 2 thousand civilian personnel with a contractual reserve of 8,000 members, the manual composition plans to be phased out, but the possibility of voluntary military service will be maintained. My people, is it possible that this is planned in a country that has not been a master in its territory for thousands of years, a country that has sent its people into other people's armies and other wars, in a country whose people have learned the knowledge and handling of the weapons they have received in other people's regimes great use in defending and creating an independent Croatian state? We did not win the Homeland War by superior military technique and professional army, but by the courage and genius of Croatian soldiers, volunteers and men. And what to say now, we served everyone for free and free of charge, and now that we have our own country, when we really have something to guard and defend we plan to lift the military deadline, the manual composition. What does that mean, and who's planning on doing this to us? I'd like to hear from the great military experts where professional soldiers have won a more significant war, all the important wars have won heart and patriotism, especially when it comes to us and these areas. What are these analyses and assessments when it comes to Croatia's security, which are in line with NATO's demands, of course, as everyone thinks, that NATO entry has no alternative as it is said, but Croatia must be militaryly capable, defend itself against any threat. Look where we live and what environment we live in. There are no neighbours who have no territorial claims towards Croatia from the smallest of Slovenia to the largest of Italy and whether it is in the NATO alliance or not. And what's going to change when we join NATO and what happens when everyone who surrounds us enters the NATO Pact? Therefore, I will always advocate compulsory military service to include a Croatian man in the centre of defence and security, which means that he is trained to wage war on modern technologies and to be stopped for a minimum of 6 months in his life and life's career in progress, to think about his country, his past, his future, why we haven't had a country for so long and why he needs to be protected and defended at every age and time. That would be normal for me, but unfortunately those who think the military deadline should be abolished are louder and louder, that the Croatian military is only a cost to the citizens' standards. My personal opinion is that most of these do not care much about the Croatian Army, and even less about the safety of the Croatian state, there may be some of them who really think there will never be a war, and I say here since the world and the century has always been war, and until the world is there will be war. To this day, not for a second during this time, there was no war. When such discussions begin to dominate the Croatian public, then it is no wonder that the demands for civil service of a military deadline of a symbolic hundred demands in '92 are increasing. up to 10 thousand and 200 requests in 2005 So you see in this report this, it is said in conclusion that the trend of a significant increase in the demand for civil service of the military deadline and... problems with the implementation of reserve composition training also indicate the need to examine the existing military obligation system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What should be questioned when everything is visible and clear. As a society, we are not prepared for civil military service, it would be normal for the state to come up with a civil military deadline in a way that is detimizing compared to the honorable service of the country to be prepared for the defence of the country, and we have over 50% of those who have decided to serve the military deadline and now the question is why? Because they don't do anything in institutions that are authorized to do it, but they're not trained. So they don't have any control if you agree to strict rules of control be assured that this number would not endanger the country's safety. This is how it goes, and here it is, now only in the report is the model being questioned. And you can imagine what will happen to the engagement and activation of reserves that all these years after the war period don't work at all, and that's what we're all aware of. How is it possible in a climate like this where everyone rushes into civil service military service to stimulate the old warriors who fought in the Homeland War to respond to military exercises and training. I don't think it's feasible at this point until a lot of things change in this society and the public. We do, so I'd have a lot more to say here and positive about the situation in the armed forces when it comes to plans and projects of compliance with NATO standards, meeting obligations in non-war missions, but here I've decided what I think needs to be changed in strategic thinking from 2003 because I'm convinced that this is neither good nor feasible. I think of the professionalism of the military when it comes to Croatia at least not so quickly because look at it it may be a trend in Europe because it is still, but it is still not so in Europe and in our neighborhood it will be a long, long time for it to happen. In the end, I will say that I am, that the report is good and good and I say it should be accepted, and as far as the strategy is concerned, the one that was worth it for Croatia too, that we should work and build as if a hundred years would be peace and be prepared as if tomorrow there would be war. Thank you very much. ... Comrade Tito, it is. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Comrade Tito, yes. He had good things.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54734	That's what someone said a long time ago... Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Miroslav Korenik. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54735	Thank you very much, Mr. President. After this inspired and extremely combative presentation of Mr. Rebić, I must say two corrections to the allegations. First of all, you said and stayed alive that no professional army had won the war. I'm just reminding you of the recent past and Desert Storm where the American professional army won the war after all. It's the same, and it's totally untrue that people who serve a civilian military deadline don't do anything. You may know of such cases, but then, as a parliamentary representative, you should be, say, specifically, where is it? I know a few examples, I've already talked to my colleagues about where,... I certainly am. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So it's incorrect that people at civil service don't do anything in institutions where they are. They may do less or more useful jobs, but they do. In the offices of the state administration in Varazdin, they have done very useful and high-level jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54736	Second correction by the respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54737	Well, something like what a colleague of Korenik did. The colleague said literally, "We are not capable of serving the civilian deadline." It's just not true, and that's exactly what this practice has been doing for a few years. It is true that we are able to do so and that it is one of the ways that this service or civil service has even improved the work in many, many public sector services. And even in state services. Except for the state administration, except for the prison, I'm going to point out to you that the first programs were made by handcuffs to the Presidents of the Courts for the Monitoring of Judges' Work.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54738	Now we have a series of replicas. First respected representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54739	Thank you very much. A colleague, Niko, opened a series of doubts and his views about whether new conventional conflicts would occur or not, but the main thesis was whether military service or not? Is it civil service or not? I don't think that's even a doubt. The question is how one way or the other. Have we fulfilled the basic task of having armed forces ready and in peace and do not give God in war. Because this is the way we have today, and I agree with the military service, but also civil service, it's not good either. The civil deadline takes place in a way that does not meet and does not function as the needs of this society, and the military deadline is not adequately set in a professional and normative way. At the same time, the reserves that should be in the position of the armed forces are not actually being prepared to be reserved. So it's that we don't have a functional system, and it's not a question whether we're military or not? But the question is whether we will have ready armed forces in modern peace conditions, and they have their function today because war can be lost without war, and victory can be imposed without the war itself if you have armed forces in the function of society that they are a practical fuse, but also a promoter of every society in creating conditions both in the economy and in the environment and in security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54740	Replication response. Dear Representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54741	So I thank my colleague Markov for giving me a chance and we can pollemize, and I'm in this and, so I declared my position and we can polarize this. But sooner I'd like to answer Mr. Korenika's words. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54742	No, no. No, I don't. Please. You're polarizing, you're replicating with...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54743	All right, all right. Okay. I'm giving up, but it's known that there's been an mobilization of nearly 200,000 people in America. The mobilization of the Korenika learns that, then report to the debates and anyone's opinions dispute And now to Mr. Markov, therefore, Mr. Markov I agree with your opinion I have declared my position that Croatia is still not, is not at that level. [[The intruders don't understand.]] That Croatia is not yet capable of, for the professional army and absolutely professional military. I'm closer to being like Switzerland one model when a man from 18 to 80 is ready at all times to defend his country and that's what this country can maintain. We will never have such techniques as we will be able to defend ourselves with if in the center, there is no Croatian genius soldier who won all the wars when it was important. [[- Insect: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54744	Second replica, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54745	Your Honor, Mr. President, the first thing I have to say is that no country in the world has a military obligation of up to 80 years. The maximum is up to 65 years or 60 or 65 years old. The first part of Mr. Rebic is right about civil service. ... The process at the time, in fact there is no procedure at all, because it is enough to make a statement that someone of moral or religious views will not serve military service with a weapon in his hand. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]] It's just enough for the commission to satisfy it, and we know a lot of cases that hunters were also given civil service, that civil service was also given to persons who had... that there are advantages in civil service, but the problem is that civil servants and deputies said, if they go to state services, then new employment is disabled. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's where we should be aware at this point. Those findings are also true about how they must have the Armed Forces. We must also have military aviation, let us take an example of Slovenia. Slovenia has no military aviation and its airspace is monitored by NATO members. You know how much money she's set aside in these two years to think she's got her own Air Force, not to mention other facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54746	The reply to the replica, the respected representative Niko Rebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54747	Well, dear colleague Kovacevic, I don't think I have anything, but what I wouldn't want to say is I have to tell you and you and I served the army, and the High Commander of the Armed Forces was 80 years old.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54748	Third replica, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54749	Yes, Mr. Niko Rebic... and the current president has... [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54750	Gentlemen, I'll set a break to calm down! Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54751	Mr. Niko Rebic said he accepted the report, and he gave the biggest criticism of this report by destroying those basic premises on which it is based. Among other things, it's against the suspension of the military deadline, but the military deadline really needs to be lifted because these six months are no longer making sense. Civilian military service makes even less sense. It just turns into a simple waste of time, and that's what to say. A small professional army of 16,000 soldiers is absolutely enough for us and too many even though I am aware that it will cost more than the current army costs. But most importantly, the greatest quality of this report is seen here where it is literally said that based on the judgment of space, threats, risks can be concluded that currently against the Republic of Croatia is not and that a direct conventional military threat will not be expressed over a long period of time, etc. And that's just the point, and that's the fact that we have to accept that we really need to go on this basis to change the concept and service of the military and the formation of the army itself. The point is one policy of good neighbourlyness, of trade cooperation, and I assure you that there will certainly be no more conflict in these areas at the due time of war.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54752	The reply to the replica, the respected representative Niko Rebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54753	I'm glad I can finally agree that someone understands the difference between Mrs. Anticevic...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54754	Please leave your colleague alone! Mr. Rebić, you're having sex with a representative, specifically a certain one, don't mention any other names.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54755	That's exactly what I'm doing!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54756	Don't give me any proof of what you're doing right now, but polymize with Agent Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54757	I'm glad Mr. Cain and I get along. As far as civil service is concerned, he confirms what I said, which is that our institutions in which it takes place are not qualified, there are no criteria or serve these institutions, which is also said by Mr. Glavas, nor are they serving this state. So that's where I agree. As for the rest, we can hardly agree, but I would especially prescribe in Istria for 6 months and more for lessons in history, future, which is waiting for Croatia and what environment we live in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54758	Order! What the hell is that? The next replica, the esteemed representative Branimir Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54759	Mr. Rebić, stop insulting the Istrian Croats and teach them Croatia by using this replica. Secondly, the rhetoric you've served with last century, last decade, and I've been sitting in that society, in that flock and for the first ten years, and I've been sitting in the last term when most of it was a coalition headed by the SDP and we've often raised our voice and opposed the positions and reforms that the coalition government wanted to implement within the Armed Forces, and we knew well that the reform within the Armed Forces after 2000 was necessary and necessary. It is as necessary as a necessary and necessary reform today. And that is why this rhetoric of the last century does not need to try to court one of the minimum parts of the electoral body, because it is not in the Croatian national and state interest. This part of the electoral body is getting smaller and smaller every day and there is really no reason to use this Assembly speaker, to send messages in order to reach out to the part of the electoral body that cannot be matched with the time in which Croatia lives, with which Croatia is headed. As far as the environment is concerned, you said we live in an environment where territorial claims exist from Slovenia even other countries. I assure you that under these political circumstances there are no territorial claims and there is no justification or justification for fear that the national security of the Croatian state could be compromised. The sovereignty of the Croatian state...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54760	The reply to the replica, the respected representative Niko Rebić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54761	Thank you, Mr. President. I am glad that I can see and the Croatian public a great transformation with Branimir Glavas. I think it will, he was so modernized that it is very interesting that he calls reform in most of the two thousand years when Croatian warriors came to be excluded from the ranks of the Croatian Army and it is a great reform for him and I really admire it. You have made very, very progress in your attitudes and thoughts, and in everything else I disagree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54762	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Branimir Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54763	Mr. Rebic violates the Rules of Procedure, abuses the Rules of Procedure in the article...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54764	Order!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54765	Who's asking you? Ask for a word, not so primitively throw it out of the bench that it tolerates you to chair the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54766	Thank you very much. Mr. Glavas, I'm giving you a heads-up on the violation of the Rules of Procedure and damage to the reputation of counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54767	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54768	Have a seat, because you'll get a warning without taking a word. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54769	A colleague, Niko Rebić, said the following sentence: "It is necessary to destimulate the civil service of the military deadline and enable the honor of serving the country.". With this statement, counterpart Rebic insulted a large number of Croatian citizens who are honorably serving their country by serving a civilian military deadline. I am sorry that my colleague Rebic does not know what the young men who serve the civilian military service are doing and how they contribute to this society, and also to increasing the fighting, increasing the country's security. I think that as much as it takes to stimulate young people to go to serve a civil military deadline, because on such a finding they are not 6 months in the military, but serve society daily by contributing, especially in those segments where the state is not or has no means to ensure that some needs are met in civil, social care, education, local self-government, in the state administration, in supporting civil society and in many other places. And if this sentence says that the only carrying of a rifle is the honor of serving the homeland, then we have said in that sentence that no woman, or the vast majority of women, is even in a position to serve this country with honor. Every service to the homeland is an honorary service to the homeland, and in the Homeland War there are also numerous Croatian citizens who have made weapons, who have repaired the funds they have been treating, who have prepared food for our citizens who were in the Croatian Army, who have equally served their country with honor. It's terrifying to say that only one who carries a rifle serves his country with honor. And I think you have really offended one large group of citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54770	Replicate response, Honored Representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54771	And I actually think that a colleague should have carefully read the status report in the Armed Forces where this, a request for civilian service of the military term of '92. The year until 2005 increased from, I say, a symbolic hundred demands to 10 thousand, over 50%. And now the report says that the state has a problem with recruiting and the security of this country. So, but I continue to argue, I continue to argue to my colleague Mršić that these institutions where young people come in serve the civil military deadline that they have no criteria to serve, what they do, usually do nothing. ... Well, I know, because I've been to some institutions, I've seen it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] In my... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's what I'm still standing by for, and I think, in the end, you have a different perception.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54772	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Branimir Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54773	Thank you, Mr. President. You have injured Article 214. You did not give Mr. Rebić a warning because of his incursions or otherwise distracting the speaker as the Rules of Procedure says. He demeaned and insulted MPs and you were obliged to give Mr. Rebić a reminder in accordance with Article 214 of the article, and you did not do so because you were incorrectly and unfairly holding a session.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54774	Mr. Glavas. The representative, Niko Rebić, did not disturb you with his incursions or debate, but you did so. You're your incursions. And now I give you a warning by taking away words on this agenda point. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54775	I'm looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54776	You're looking for a break. It's ten minutes. Just a reminder by taking away words on behalf of the club will be able to speak not you but another representative. We're going to continue the session. The Independent Advocacy Club came forward, not Mr. Glavas. You have no right because I gave you a warning by taking away the word of the representative who, after the warning, gave him a measure of taking away the word. So you have no right and I won't allow you to speak because you've been taken away by word on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54778	But Mr. President, you respected my word when I asked for a break for the club... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54779	I asked for a break for the club but not for you because you can't get a word. But I'm not talking about this subject that you took away my word for.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54782	I'll talk about the subject
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54783	No, you won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54784	The violation of the Rules of Procedure by you as chairman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54785	You won't talk about anything because you don't have the right word. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54786	You continue to enforce force and beyond, but fortunately, our club has enough of those to say what I... Say it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54787	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Independent Representatives' Club, respected representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54788	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs today is not the first time we have to suffer here in this distinguished House, not tolerate, but to suffer the outbursts of individual representatives who interfere with the work of the session of the Croatian Parliament, unfortunately in this case, Mr. President, the one who interfered with the work of the Croatian Parliament was you. You didn't stick to the Rules of Procedure. You have allowed in this assembly MPs from their posts to shout and interfere with other representatives in the presentation, representatives in the particular case of Mr Glavas, who, in the debate, delivered his opinion or his position. So you failed to give a warning. On three occasions you tolerated throwing out the bench by other MPs but at the same time when it wasn't about your party colleague, when it was a parliamentary representative in this case from the Independent Club, you made a warning. Although you were wrong, you made a warning because your party colleague from the bench threw and disrupted the debate here in the Croatian Parliament. Next and now you've broken the Rules of Procedure. The president of the Independent Club, Mr. Glavas, and after you've done business with him, unfoundedly, he asked for a break for the club in front of the Independent Club. You gave that break, too. And now that the president of the Club of Independents should present to the Rules of Procedure the reasons why this pause is requested again you do not allow this argument to be given to this respected high house and to the Croatian public. And you are aware that you yourself have broken the Rules of Procedure. And that's not the first time. Last week and last week, we had the opportunity to see you violate the Rules of Procedure, using the abuse of a member of the Rules of Procedure, in which the truth states that the President of the Croatian Parliament or the chairman gives an explanation, but does not say that he is commenting on the position of the representatives, which you do and not rarely. So you're not giving an explanation, but you're commenting on a statement of opinion and the opinion of a representative. And that's where you break the Rules of Procedure, too. And this was today and it was an arbitrary interpretation of the Rules of Procedure by the chairman of the Croatian Parliament. I think it's inappropriate, I think it's abuse. I can give you more examples like that. In last session of the Parliament last week, you took Mr. Mršić's word because, according to your comment, Mr. Mršić spoke about an issue that is not on the agenda which is not true. But it did not bother you after 5 minutes to allow the secretary of state to explain the same topics Mr. Mršić spoke about. I think that this kind of conduct is inappropriate and that this kind of behaviour in the Assembly is especially the one that should be the most responsible in conducting the session that it is inappropriate and I want not to hope but insist that the Rules of Procedure be respected to the end and that the Rules of Procedure should not be misused for party purposes in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54789	Mr. Representative first when, according to Article 209, paragraph 7. The Rules of Procedure shall give notice to the agent, the chair may not request a word to respond to the statement for which the notice was given to the representative. Secondly, a number of MPs threw both during this debate and during previous and all discussions. From where any representative could be sanctioned by the chairman who throws any other representative because the representative should be given a warning if he interferes with his attackers. Many MPs go out with their incursions and now they should give each one a warning. I'm sticking strictly to the Rules of Procedure. I adhere to those provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to a subject which many do not wish to accept and who are hypocritically accepting and seeking uninterrupted through the correcting of the incorrect indication of the extension of that provision of the Rules of Procedure relating to the subject. A number of MPs were added to the raid, especially the one who gave the warning. I, after giving the warning, warned myself that I would make a note of taking the word away. That's what I did. If any of the representatives or clubs are to hold that, that I insult the Rules of Procedure, let the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system present its proposal, and the Committee will discuss it, and Parliament will adopt it. We're moving on with the session. Replica esteemed representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54790	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Rebić, this whole debate of yours is as if it was inspired by His verse, "The fight does not fight the bright weapons, but the battle beats the heart into heroes." It was indeed a modern, strategic, military thinking of the Montenegrin-literary implementation that was touchingly spiced with Tito's maximum how it works as if for a hundred years there would be peace, and prepared as if war were going to break out tomorrow. I hope that this debate of yours has not been heard by any military attaché especially from NATO member states. Because if they send reports to their governments on what one ruling party's parliamentarian thinks about, the government's representative, I fear it will delay our country's admission to NATO by at least two years. But I suggest you take this whole discussion off your phonogram and send it to some military magazine by chance, some sort of... And announce it in full. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It will be an unsanitary source of joy for all readers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54791	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic. No one named Rebic, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54792	I would just like to point out to Mr. Stazic that it is not civil and military attachés who are responsible for the security of the state but for us in this High House, and what you are telling me is just talking about your party, and it is my thinking and my freedom of democracy in the Croatian Democratic Community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54793	And respected representative Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54794	Mr. President, my colleague Rebić, allow me when you speak of responsibility for and the creation of the Croatian Army, I will fill you in a little bit. After the takeover of the territorial defence, and it is known who took away the weapons of territorial defence after the 17th and 18th August of the beginning of the “balvan revolution” in Croatia began to create the Croatian Army. Croatians outside the country participated in the formation and creation and defence of the Croatian Army, without the fact that it was not true that the Croats outside the country gave the first defence minister, war defence minister, Mr. Minister Šushko, seven generals, Mr. General Gotovina, General Ross, General Skender, General Glasnović, Filipovic, Kapularar. May all other Croatian officers and soldiers forgive me for which there is no time for honorable names here to say. There were those, sir, colleagues of Rebić who came to the Republic of Croatia in 1991 for the first time to the homeland of their great grandfathers, grandfathers and fathers and defended the Croatian state, and I hope that this history will not leave out these truths that we will have to repeat very often until they are written, and the Croatian soldier writes Croatian history from 1991 to today.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54795	Proposer, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54796	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. On behalf of the promoter, so the Croatian Party of Rights Club I ask you nicely to stick to this topic. We've located all the major problems we have in the Armed Forces. So we don't have a long-term development plan for the Armed Forces. We have located problems related to the readiness of the defence system of the Republic of Croatia. We do not have a defence plan, and I would ask that in further discussion we go on how and in what way to draw the line and commit all of us here and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that this situation can no longer stand like this and that it should finally start working in the way that it has been proposed and our conclusions that approaches be made means new defence strategies and new national security strategies. This was about a strategic defence review. For all of us, for the sake of the public, I have to show a strategic review of the defence we have begun working on NATO's request to the Alliance, representatives because these strategic documents from the defence strategy, national security, are inconsistencies with NATO strategic documents. Otherwise, a strategic defence review is not a document mentioned by any Croatian regulations. So neither the constitutional law nor the other but it was necessarily an evil that we had to adapt to that part. Otherwise, this strategic defence review will be only one segment of the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces, and some of its parts should be translated into a defence strategy. Speaking of defense strategies, and there's been a lot of civil service here. Croatia introduced the civil service in '91. Years before many countries both in Europe and in the world, '91. A year. We in our Constitution have objected to our conscience. Therefore, we cannot talk about the need to abolish the objection of conscience. It's impossible to lift it. We have also signed conventions, but normally there should be order in this section that this procedure is not only being carried out, that someone because of moral or religious supervision is not prepared with weapons in hand to serve a military deadline, but also to carry out a check. It's not working now. You know for a fact that you've had cases of a hunter getting a civilian service, that a person with an armed list has received a civil service, that, for example, those who served civil service are ultimately working in the intelligence community. So during the civil service, they were not as willing to serve a military term, seeking civil service because of moral or religious views, and after that they were employed in the intelligence community. Therefore, all of this has been contained and it is precisely foreseen in the procedure that civil service rights can be revoked if it is established during civil service as well. And by the way, let us take an example of Austria as civil service is being carried out. They have two centers and every day a man has to report to the civil service and then go to the execution of the things that are needed. Whether it's civil protection, whether it's shaming, whether it's generally beneficial social work means in nursing homes, in the bodies of the state administration. So, all these things talk about now we have to commit ourselves to access the new national security defence strategy, to make a long-term plan for the development of the Armed Forces, and to make a defence plan, and to see which steps and how we're going to go, and this part means using funds from valuable military properties. Because it's true, it's an incorrect thing, Mr. Caine. Armed forces designed to be modern, efficient, they even enable the development of other economic branches. If we have a military industry it means going to hire new people, going and selling means of weapons and military equipment, and there are new funds being created for both weapons and participation in everything. So that's what's important to us at this point to get back on topic and come to a common conclusion, means not political, not party, but responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54797	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54798	Yeah, he blames that assumption to make it possible to develop if we have a military industry. The problem is, we don't have a military industry. From, we gentlemen in the military industry have produced 300 million kunas. Croatia out of 300 million kunas exports 250 million kunas, which is nothing, nothing gentlemen. And it should simply be kept in mind. And we're not able to produce a piece of equipment simply in our military industry, and we should run it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54799	Honorable representative of Shima Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54800	Thank you very much. I don't know, it seems to me that we in the House have introduced a practice that the more serious the subject is that we talk more seriously. I personally cannot accept it as I think it would be good to try not to approach it emotionally but rationally by discussing this subject. I also understand the role of the Homeland War and the role of the army, etc. And all of this should be kept in mind. But there seems to be one serious issue ahead of us for a number of reasons. For a simple reason, however, significant funds are being allocated to the defence. However, it should also be pointed out that, at least in my court, this issue falls within a number of topics that, at least generally, need to be reached at political level by some agreement, a consensus. In fact, this issue of national national security, as well as public security, falls within those themes, for example, in terms of Croatia's entry into the European Union. And so it seems to me that all those today who have something to say should say. But in the end, I think the whole story should go that way. What I see as the basic problem of defense, about the state of defense preparations, and all this material and this story treats is a lack of vision. And that's that you don't actually know what you want. It is not known whether we are going to serve civil service regularly, whether we are going to end the entire manual, whether we are going to develop a military industry or not to develop a military industry. In fact, it seems to me that some of these strategic issues should come to an agreement. I don't think we need to agree whether or not we need two or three planes, I don't know if we need, I don't know, a submarine or we don't need a submarine, but on some issues, I think the important questions are that we need to come to an agreement. When I take this report, I have to be honest and say that I'm disappointed with the level it's written on. When you start the first few pages, they're too big and they actually have some kind of meaning. However, as you move forward, this level of seriousness and topics and problems is lost in this report. He's a little overworked by the details. You see, when I read in this report that the problem of the Croatian Army, or the Ministry of Defence today, is because it has to hire a thousand and 600 hand-handlings or soldiers to provide facilities, I cannot accept it. At least I can't accept from the aspect that it's an integral part of this report. On the other hand, actually, let's say something important to me is segments, like the Navy. Why does the Navy matter to me? Not because I'm from the sea, but because it's about the Adriatic, which is about the sea. In this House, we offered him an initiative from the SDP, or one proposal for a coast guard law. The government rejected it by saying that it was preparing its proposal, its proposal to the law. Yesterday we had an opportunity to hear from the minister, and earlier from some admirals, that the Coast Guard was going within... Navy, but that, at least I didn't have the opportunity to officially, officially, see through any of the acts. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, if we're going to save the Croatian Navy in such a way that we can rebuild it through the coast guard, then I guess we should discuss it in this House and bring some kind of act and see the arguments for or against. Let's say, when I look at a plan of funds achieved, so you will see that less – more all the plans have been achieved correctly, even some even transferred, and just for the Navy, let's say the funds provided by the budget plan were not realised, the financial plan was not achieved. There's a lot of details. I don't think we're interested in the Department of Defense spending, I don't know, a million and a half kuna on some 20 crypt phones. But as a Croatian representative, I am interested in the fact that less than a million and a half kuna paid for crypto phones are actually invested in research and science. Yesterday, there was something about it too, so someone mentioned that the former government was this or that. We can talk about what the former government did next year, but gentlemen of this government, this is your responsibility. I know that finance and money must be one important and limiting moment. So the lack of funds, the lack of resources certainly causes the technique to be what it is. But I'd like someone to explain page 10 of this report to me. What's the reason? In fact, if you read something about defence preparations and you start reading on page 10 what is stated, so let's say, it says, the lack of normative regulation, and it further writes, unsettled personnel problems, and further writes the discrepancies in the offices and the Government of the Republic, the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the internal structure, and further writes, no new methodology has been prescribed, the Republic of Croatia has not adopted a plan. Look, these are questions for which no money is needed, only a few smart people should be gathered, and there are also in the Croatian military and in the Moreh, so if you need to sit outside and get a nice sit down and get those documents brought in. Because actually, how you're going to evaluate something when you don't have a predisposition, you don't have any plans and goals. I think, in fact, that simply this kind of material, and with grades like this, no one can, whether it's in opposition or in power, be some kind of document based on which they're going to say or at least what it says inside that the situation is good. The situation isn't good, and we can talk about what we want now. However, I would be happier, ok, if already such a condition is what it is that we have had the opportunity to read and see what it is, what the Ministry of Defence and the Government of the Republic of Croatia will do in the coming period to overcome this situation. Unfortunately, you can't really see it from this. When it comes to strategy, you know I'm going back to that issue of national interest and the need to make some arrangements. At least the strategy shouldn't be an expression of a political will first. It should primarily be an expression of some objective circumstances and goals. Let's not have any illusions that we'll agree on the day and the moment we're about to join the NATO alliance. We will probably agree, but there are variants and two and three, how Croatia, how military, how the Armed Forces of Croatia can join NATO alliance and should take care of it. I just get the impression by reading this, listening to some announcements maybe early NATO entry than I personally expected, actually waiting for someone on the outside to impose some standards on us and then we simply copy them. I'm not personally into it. I also don't see a series of problems listed in this report that could not be removed, starting with these objects that are mentioned here, starting with a number of other things. It simply seems to me that the problem of defence and security is not really a top issue or is not in the interest of the Croatian government, because it simply seems that it is not ready, and this is seen from those documents that I have cited, which are not adopted that we should and should adopt. What would be my proposal, which is that the government should actually initiate and that it already seems to me that some kind of deadline has expired, to sit down and make some sort of material to see if in the the thesis, whether I don't know already, this profession should be prepared and that it should be offered as a political platform and strategy and state, not a state and what the Croatian Army should look like and what it should be and what it should be able to join NATO alliance.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54801	Thank you. Replica, a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54802	Thank you. Here's your colleague reading this report, wondering how many handbooks it takes to secure abandoned properties, military facilities, and that's what's also problematic. How much Croatia spends not only in recruiting the handbook to guard these facilities that are in this way and not just dead capital because it cannot manage the property, the former government has launched this very big project, first we have encountered the problem of listing our own assets. The state did not have a list of assets at all at the time, which is what Croatia has and unfortunately cares about, which is what the property is listed but is not managed by it. And if it's not managed properly, then you can see what that cost is. After all, is it not a shame that the Croatian flag hangs on these abandoned, abandoned facilities instead, and on the other hand, its other offices, for example, the state administration is crying out for space. The judiciary still does, as well as some other public institutions, not to mention how much this would mean to the local community. So I don't know why the MORH doesn't exactly send such proposals to the Government's Office for Government Property so that this property can finally be put into office.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54803	Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54804	The problem with this story is double. I don't care that much, and I can understand that the problem with non-military objects can actually be a problem with insurance. However, this report actually states that the problem and the security of the facilities that are in operation, and at least this could simply be solved in my view. Objects that aren't operational give her some kind of guard's house to guard them, it'll get us cheaper than putting soldiers there. However, what concerns when objects have already been mentioned, I know that the Croatian Army has established the plan that the facilities need and that the other objects not listed on this plan should be made available to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. to the competent office. Unfortunately, since the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not do so, then these facilities additionally burden the Ministry of Defence and I know that in this part of the Ministry of Defence is not responsible. There is a cost, unfortunately, and on the other hand the Government is acting irrationally and these facilities do not function whether or not, by leaving to some other institutions, this was also about science, I do not know about the economy, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54805	Another replica, the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54806	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. First, I'd like to look around about the Coast Guard. It is true that Croatia must have a coast guard, that what we have now is not what we should have. That's where we differ in the concept approach related to the SDP club. We believe that coast guard should be established in Croatia, and this is how Norway established it, so that the ships are held at the Navy, the Croatian Navy and thus allow the development of a branch such as the Navy, and when the situation is to act as a coast guard then it is normally a civil flag and the commander is a civilian in these actions and we are pleased that the President of the State has personally supported it. Also related to this part of the property, that's true. The situation, although 92th has already been properly listed all military properties and one part has remained for use by the Ministry of Defence, the other is the Government. So there's already this central state office here, or one thought-out concept, if we're going to make sure that part of the military property is used for these parts or not. And now the most important part is the NATO alliance. We are all talking about the NATO Alliance, we only have indirectly in the current defence strategy regulated security policy of the Republic of Croatia, the area, instruments, integration. So we say that in a strategy to seek NATO alliance, but we must hold a full debate in this Croatian Parliament. It means to see all the reasons for and against, and that the Croatian public finally knows what a NATO alliance is, whether Croatia needs it or not. This isn't enough, and it's like we made the official decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54807	Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54808	When it comes to coast guard, there is a principle, at least what I saw in the literature of the profession of science, and the principle of any given objective circumstances and political will. Norway has a coast guard within the Armed Forces for two reasons and the first reason is because Norway has an open sea, Croatia has no sea. And the other reason is because Norway had a Navy ready to go, so then the Coast Guard went to the Navy. In Croatia I know why it is going to the coast guard to make it within the Croatian Navy. For the simple reason to try through this model Croatian navy to rise. And Mr. Kovacevic, I still have to talk to you. I said that when we proposed that law that I was for that model, but we didn't manifest ourselves around this model that you're talking about because we didn't see it in the thesis or in the draft, and I can't say in advance that I'm for something that I don't know what it's going to look like.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54809	Dear Representative Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54810	Dear Mr. President, Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, here I am going to say a few of my thoughts on this subject. After the Homeland War, the public in the Republic of Croatia is particularly sensitive to the Croatian Army and everything related to the state, current state and future of the armed forces. This should not be surprising when we know what the Croatian soldier and the Croatian Army meant in the defence of the Republic of Croatia and we know that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia were anxious together and were in mind with the Croatian Army when the most important operations took place and the most important victories in the Homeland War. I therefore hold the report on the readiness of the defence system in the implementation of the Staff Policy and on the overall situation in the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia as particularly important and necessary. This report through several chapters and units shows the current state of our armed forces without unnecessary beauty and hairstyle. The most important thing for me in this report is the assessment that the defence system is capable and ready to ensure the protection of sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia and the safety of all citizens. Here we should appreciate the fact that the Croatian Army is in transition and that it is going through a process of long-term reform that will result in a new strategy, a collective defence strategy, which is in line with our country's definition of joining full NATO membership association. Reforms carried out to the final objective of creating well-equipped and well-trained armed forces in this respect shall also be carried out by reducing the number of members and stopping the aging process with the reception of new employees, with an appropriate qualification structure. It is important here to be sensitive in this process and to respect the fact that all those who have contributed to the MORH system so far have made their contribution both in the Homeland War and after it. But the best example of a future Croatian soldier gives us troops who are trained and equipped to participate in NATO-led peacekeeping missions and exercises. For these members, the Republic of Croatia gets only praise and they are the best example of what a Croatian soldier should look like in the future. That's why I think it's a good commitment to the Ministry of Defence to invest in people's education and I think it's going to pay off in the future. This report on the state of arms and equipment throughout all generations tells us in support of the need to renew, modernise and standardise tools, weapons and equipment. We know that in the Homeland War when the Croatian Army was created the weapons were obtained and that every weapon was welcome and, of course, it is now neither correct enough nor at this time in accordance with what is wanted by the Croatian Army. Despite this, I may finally mention what the minister said, and I think it is the best message in this report, despite the limitations of the fighting technique, the system is still being maintained, the situation is satisfactory and the combat preparedness of the armed forces is unquestionable. I think that from this report is the most important and I think that what is really what in Croatia, the citizens of Croatia, all of us MPs should be satisfied at this moment, and of course we should strive to modernise and make every progress of the Croatian Army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54811	Honorable representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54812	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. My participation in this debate was initiated by an article in Free Dalmatia published on January 21st this year entitled "After three hundred years of Sinj without an army". And my debate on today's topic will be focused on an unprimary character when it comes to the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, but I will deal with secondary issues, but which, by my assessment, are also very important. I can say that the reconstruction of the armed forces of the Croatian Army is in some way a top topic among the members of the Ministry of Defence but also within the political circles, as well as among the people, among the families whose members work in the armed forces, who are employed in the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. Before I return to this article, I do not mean to think locally, but only in some way is one introduction to a global thinking when it comes to the deployment of the armed forces, not questioning the assessment and assessment of the measuring military experts, but I, as a man coming from a certain environment, must in some way present certain facts and hope that they will be of relevant service and accepted. I'll say the following about the report myself, and first of all by consulting and talking to people who work at the Department of Defense or those who worked at the Department of Defense, and they have something to say about it. I think this article, this report, that it is a good, short, precise, clear and objective state in the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, in the Croatian Army and here, stands out financial factor as limiting in terms of the modernisation of further development, the restoration of weapons and in general when it comes to military technology, so we can say either when it comes to the personnel themselves within the Ministry of Defence. However, I must mention, and I will point out that the policy and planning in the Armed Forces is well and in a precise way, and in this direction I am assessing this report with a very high quality and I will personally support it. It also points to the need for the reconstruction of the Armed Forces in light, in the new international environment, so that this report also discusses globalisation, degradation as processes and which are part of Croatia, the approximation of Croatia to the European Union and is certainly maintained to security. Therefore, we can no longer talk about individual security when it comes to countries, but as this report itself states on global security because it is also a global threat when it comes to European and global scales. I don't think Croatian armed forces, as mentioned above, can be insulated in some way, can be an island in the sea. We accept certain standards, we enter integrations when it comes to the military component, and I think this report in that direction clearly and precisely points to the direction we need to go, and I am sure that the Ministry of Defence, Government and all competent institutions in this direction will give their pain and that Croatian Armed Forces, that we will get the kind of armed forces that the electoral body expects of us, as the Croatian public expects of us. I hope that this dimension, the dimension of the Homeland War, and even when it comes to Croatian soldiers, we will be able to integrate and preserve in this one global unification of armed forces, defences, etc. Now I'd like to get back to the very beginning. I will ask the minister a precise and decided answer through the parliamentary question, given what I initially just asked as a topic of my conversation and thinking. But I am interested in the following, whether the Ministry of Defence can contribute to its reconstruction, development, further development of the Armed Forces, to the even development of the Republic of Croatia by not questioning the primary task of the Ministry of Defence. My answer is that I hope the minister agrees with such one thought. I think we should also go from tradition to certain environments. I mention Sinj, so since 1702 the military has always, the army has always been present in Sinj and Sinjani wanted me or did not want me in any way and one of the sinons of the defence force, the defence forces of the Republic of Croatia. I believe that the existing infrastructure, then tradition should also come from the situation, the economic situation in a particular area, about the social situation, and that it will all be factors that will in some way be well-judged in decision-making when it comes to the reconstruction of the Armed Forces. We need to know that not only countries like Croatia but also much more significant and stronger military forces and countries that are economically more powerful when it comes to defence that it fits into the integrated development of the country and that military potential should be one of the factors of general development. So I also welcome some of the thoughts I've heard here when it comes to the military industry. I don't think the Department of Defense can play a crucial role here. Here is the question of our overall technological development, how many Croatian economy, institutes and Croatian science can offer appropriate solutions, and for the Croatian military product to be accepted, it is placed on the world market. I'm sure the Department of Defense will be a trigger, be a movence that will give a boost and in some way try to unite certain thinking in that direction, but certainly cannot play a crucial role. The report itself lists, page 71 of the facilities that should, which will not be used for the purposes of the Ministry of Defence. I must stress that it is the objects that are devastated, and what is more important about these facilities, the Ministry of Defence pays the municipal fee and other local fees. Therefore, budget money is spent. I think it's the interest of the municipalities, that the interest of the cities and the interest of the businessmen to put these objects into operation, but that the criteria must be strictly defined and that would also be one backbone when it comes to the development of the economy in... In the middle, and I can say that in certain cities, municipalities such as Sinj are certain military facilities that are no longer used in some way represent one shame I would say to the city, but certainly also to the Ministry of Defence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, Mr. Minister, I think this is my brief statement that in some ways you will accept some ideas from it, given that you have shown exceptional good relations when it comes to your meetings with other defence ministers, whether it is the NATO Pact, the European Union, etc. But I also believe that in this part of my homework I would say the Ministry of Defence and its role in the overall development of the Republic of Croatia that you and the leaders together with you, the Ministry of Defence and the Government of the Republic of Croatia will offer appropriate and quality solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54813	Thank you. Replica is a respected representative of Zeljka Antunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54814	My colleagues and colleagues, in my replica, I would like to look at myself with a slightly different opinion than the opinion of colleagues we had just heard, who partly talked about the possibilities of influence or interaction between the needs of the Ministry of Defence or the defence system and the Croatian economy. Namely, I think the possibilities are very large, not limited, as my colleague said. I think that the possibilities are very high and not only in relation to the launch of the Croatian military equipment industry or some parts that are closely related to the military, but also in a much wider sense. In fact, even when a certain equipment is to be introduced for the needs of the Armed Forces, it is possible that the imports that are necessary or inevitable will be brought into operation of the most advanced production in Croatia. In fact, there is a lot of talk, and nothing in Croatia is done on so-called Offsided programmes that are not limited to only one production, but which can, I say and military production bring into the context of wider production and increased Croatian imports. However, in Croatia, which is supported by the Croatian government, clean imports of everything not produced in Croatia are still potential. Croatian producers continue to have the motherhood of the state and the acquisitions carried out for all state agencies, including the Ministry of Defence, they simply instead of finding ways to help them and to potentiate them to this production, and even wider production, are making them impossible in many ways.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54815	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54816	Here's what counterpart Antunovic said in some ways I can accept, but not in part. I'll tell you why I can't accept it. You need to know that the development and placement of any military product, and these are all high-tech products can't be focused on one small market. The Croatian army on some can only absorb part of it. Therefore, if we want to be competitive, if we want to be competitive, we need our industry, our science, our brains must produce such a product that will be competitive on the world market for weapons and military techniques, otherwise working only for the ministry is impossible. I don't even know that you did God knows what during your term. So the current minister and current government are yet to face one battle in that direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54817	Dear Representative Ivan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54818	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The report on the readiness of the defence system, the implementation of the Staff Policy and the overall situation in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia shall be in accordance with Article 16(5). Defense laws. The annual report on the preparedness of the defence system, the implementation of human resources policy and the overall situation in the Armed Forces shall be submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Parliament in accordance with Article 8 of the same Act, which is certainly to be welcomed. That law was passed in 2002. And as far as I know, this is the first report that the government submits through its ministry a status report in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Which is certainly to say hello. Ministers, both of you, of courage and of the Government, and also wonder why this has not been done so far, why the Defence Act was not respected in this Croatian House. The efforts of the Republic of Croatia to join NATO and the usual way of working on NATO members in the Ministry of Defence adopted a method of managing the defence system through the annual guidelines of the defence system. Among the most important guidelines are guidelines for building from the Strategic Defence Review and the Long-term Development Plan of the Armed Forces. To meet the criteria for NATO membership. As the world has recently faced a complex security situation characterized by high speed and unpredictability... The instability of individual countries and regions, terrorism, organised crime, the profiling of weapons of mass destruction, and information security problems pose threats to which no country can fully respond. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Moreover, the need to import national security and defence systems in search of an answer to the problem set in the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia is more pronounced. Following this, NATO has launched a process of transformation and adjustment. Both structural and in the area of the defence systems of the alliance. One is an important growing role of the European Union, especially for the mitigation of the consequences of the crisis and the social recovery of the area affected by the crises. A clear indication of the takeover of responsibility for stabilisation is the replacement of forces in Bosnia and Herzegovina with EU forces. The start of democratic processes in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia-Montenegro point to those countries for entry into European Atlantic integration. Thus, the regional environment of the Republic of Croatia also takes on stabilisation and a safe environment, allowing the Republic of Croatia a strong step towards more engaged participation in international activities, i.e. to become its exporter instead of its importer. Based on the judgment of space, threats and risks, it can be concluded that currently against the Republic of Croatia is not and that a direct conventional military threat will not be expressed over a long period of time. But as the devil never sleeps, she must not be completely excluded. Since there are still opportunities for the emergence and spread of instability in the environment of the Republic of Croatia threats get a new character and in the future will be very difficult to separate their military and non-war components. Such an assessment suggests that such assessments suggest the need for reform of the defence system in the military defence in the development of new capabilities. However, due to the low probability of conventional conflict with the Republic of Croatia, the opportunity has been given to develop sufficient capabilities through the gradual reform of the defence system and to form a force compatible with collective security requirements, i.e. collective defence. Based on the findings and recommendations of the Strategic Defence Review approved by the Presidents of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Armed Forces will retain the border structure, reduce the number of troops and command, and continue to develop the capacity to carry out defined missions and tasks. The report shows that the target size of the Armed Forces is 16,000 persons employed, 2 thousand civilian personnel, in the contract reserve of 8,000 members. It is evident that the manual is planning to be completely abolished and to maintain the possibility of voluntary military service. I thought it was good, but you shouldn't rush into it. The report also shows that the international defence co-operation continues the trend in the growth of co-operation that has been present in recent years. Co-operation is traditionally with the most important partners. In bilateral cooperation, co-operation has been achieved with 30 states and the Military - Diplomatic Assembly accredited in the Republic of Croatia, the peace missions and operations of the United Forces, and the tasks carried out by Croatian officers, Croatian soldiers are increasingly complex, such as the supervision of the areas of separation, the monitoring of implementation... and so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also evident that the average age of infrastructure facilities from 40 to 580 years, the technological obsolescence of the defence, etc. The problem of maintaining and preserving military facilities, the security service that some here say would be good for the guards, so by the end of the debate, I expect the guards and someone to make a proposal to protect the borders of the Croatian state, the municipal compensation, the plan to reduce military facilities, etc. It is certainly necessary to continue to reduce the number of non-prespective military facilities, but also to do so transparently. I have a bad experience when, as the city of Ogulin, as mayor, I asked for a military office in the city of Ogulin at the end of 99, the main headquarters gave the assessment that this was an unspective one, we waited three and a half years to get this military property owned by the city, we actually bought it from the Ministry of Defense, and we got the decision in 93, three days before the election, and I'm thinking about giving military facilities like the last government, for civilian purposes, in 2003, I apologize. As the government has done for political purposes, it is not good that the Ministry of Defence must have criteria for units of local self-government equal regardless of what policy or government is in this city, and also that the units of local self-government that take over these facilities must commercialise them as soon as possible and thank God the Vojarna in Ogulin has been destroyed and housing facilities are in place today. Namely the poor state of combat technique in the Land Army, Air Force, the Navy, this state shows modernization which requires the great resources that we are obliged to secure in this House and I hope, as fellow Hebrang said, that it will soon be 2% of the state budget. Finally, I commend Mr. Minister's report on transparency in all segments with a desire to modernise Croatia's winning army faster. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54819	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54820	So the emphasis must be on the following, that the Croatian industry is trying to equip the Croatian Army. That the Croatian transporter is doing "Djuro Djakovic" if it is necessary to take a license from the Finnish "Patria" then let it do so, but let the job do "Djuro Djakovic". If the Navy needs to get to the patrol ship, then let's do the domestic squires. Let's start that military industry. For what? First of all for the Croatian Army, but also for export. The annual production of the domestic military industry is 300 million kuna. That's embarrassingly small. Of these 300 million kunas, Croatia exports about 250 million kunas, 40 million dollars not counting those 5,000 100 rockets, which is not a problem where the money went missing but why we got involved in the conflict in Macedonia, but I want to say that today we have 44 weapons companies. But these 300 companies, it's simply negligible. The only valuable exports are HS2000 guns exported to America, even managed to make them more than the figures from the Czech Republic, but to return to this "Djuro Djakovic". If we're going to say one more time, help our industry or our army, then let's really raise that domestic industry.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54821	Replica reply, Honored Representative Ivan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54822	I agree with you to a large extent that the Croatian industry should work for the Croatian Army and not only for the Croatian military, as the fellow representative said, but also to be an exporter of Croatian equipment, but not in a way, it should also be done by Đuro Đaković, but not in the way that it was done three, four years ago, that the rockets from the Croatian military warehouses are being sent to Đuro Đaković, the number is being typed, the crates are painted, and that is how it is produced. In my opinion, this is no production, it is a discharge on Croatian military repositories and such production will not lift us even in Croatia, let alone in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54823	Honorable representative Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54824	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I'm not going to use the circumstance that I came to my word right here when my colleague Vukic spoke incorrectly about rockets, I'm not going to open that debate here, but I'm going to talk about this report. According to the Croatian Defence Act, the parliament should receive a once-a-year report on the state of the defence system and that the parliament wanted it to be a two-year report then he would have asked for a two-year report. We are this way of reporting in fact missing one year of reacting in the Croatian Assembly to what is happening in the defence system. Obviously, the promoter of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Defence considers that the Parliament is not in this sense important, that some of its interventions on this report or after the budget are not relevant, that it is not a relevant institution, so it does not matter if this report is submitted for two years, rather than annually, as clearly stated in our law. As for the report itself, that is, the reform process, and I will look at it the most, one should say the fundamental point of view, which is that defence reform is far better than in any other segment. In no segment of the state administration in recent years there have been such major changes as in the Department of Defence segment, but in my opinion these reforms are too slow. This is a general assessment concerning the process of modernising the overall functioning of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia. In 2002, reforms were agreed to take place in two steps. I was personally against it, believing that reforms could be implemented in one step, but this is not a crucial issue if the second step of the reform comes soon after the first. But that didn't happen. So today, four years almost after the start of the reform, we are still getting what would be our second step. For more than four years it has been a study on the professionalisation of the Croatian Army, four years have almost passed that the Parliament has made an obligation to adopt, namely to develop a long-term plan for the development of the Armed Forces which did not happen, and itself a strategic defence review as an auxiliary technical document has been working for almost three years. Recently, the government adopted him in the second half of last year. This document, however, is merely a technical basis to make decisions on the basis of it. The strategic review of the defence should not be carried out in any way before what is indicated in the strategic review is proposed, it does not receive political confirmation, and the political confirmation is here in the Croatian Parliament through the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces. Therefore, the order of moves in this regard is disrupted, but the second step I'm talking about cannot even be if this procedure is not respected, unless we still have a long-term development plan for the Armed Forces. That this process of modernising the ministry has slowed down the fact that in 99, staff expenditure was over 70%, and whoever knows something about the defence system and almost every other management system when they hear that the cost of staff is being spent more than 70% of the total means know that the system is poorly organised. In 2002, we managed to reach about 65% and opened the space for further downsizing of staff in the total cost of the ministry, but then there was an increase in salaries and a decrease in the overall budget of the Ministry of Defence so that we are again above 70%, 72.73%. And I repeat, whoever knows how the defence system of any country's defence system works knows that if a country has 72% stakes, staff costs that this system is poorly organised. Some countries have the most advanced share of staff costs even below 50%. Our goal of Croatia should be to get to 60 as soon as possible, and then try to reach 50% to open space for quality maintenance, for training, for training, for training of Armed Forces and of course for modernisation. If we know that in 99, the ministry's budget was 50% higher than it was today, then there was such a space for modernization, equipment, training, training. But today, under these circumstances, this absolutely enables not only the modernisation that we are talking about but also not the good maintenance, nor the equal good training, or training of members of the Croatian Army. That's, that's the real circumstances I'm talking about. The process of reduction which is unprecedented in the Croatian administration, therefore, does not have any administrative organisation in which in such a way is radically going towards reducing the administration, and should in itself still be too slow. If you look at this report then you will see for the past year that the number of soldiers is being accomplished, so the reduction of soldiers is being achieved according to plan but therefore the number of officers and officers is not being reduced as planned. Well, one of our army's faults was inherited, found to have an excessive officer's and officer's crust compared to the soldiers. If we should, and of course we should try to achieve an optimal structure, the pyramidal structure of the Croatian Army, then the plans of reducing officers and officers rather than the soldiers who are here, which is not the case here in this report. And the other problem that's connected to it, and I'm talking about it because the staff is spending money. The staff spends money then missing for modernisation, for the regular functioning of the ministry is too many civilians, civil servants and replacements in the Ministry of Defence. 19 thousand soldiers are a good way to go to the final 16 thousand, of course there should also be quality taken care of, but having 6 thousand civilians in the Ministry of Defence after all these reforms means that there is something missing. This is at least 3,000 civilian employees more, and some 200 million kunas are more than three thousand full-time employees each year. And exactly that 200 million kuna is missing for modernisation, maintenance, training and other functions. Not to mention the development within the defence system of the Republic of Croatia. Here, I think, are the most important suggestions, in my opinion, to object to this report. I will probably talk a little later on about what should be done on behalf of the club regarding the orderly reporting of the Croatian Parliament and the adoption of these documents. But under these circumstances, therefore, by the basis of this report I must absolutely repeat the conclusion that this is a unique process and process in the Croatian state administration. This is unfortunately happening in other segments of the state administration, but this process could also be faster and better than it is, with the ultimate goal of making the Armed Forces a mirror of quality. To emanate into a society of good vibrations, and not as it has been known in some times to be that without parliamentary supervision and the Armed Forces actually send very negative and bad signals to society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54825	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54826	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's the incorrect quote from fellow Radosha that this report is a two-year report so it didn't arrive in time to react. So, we know, we see that the report compared to the last of October 2004, so a year and, I don't know, 2 months, let's say that this report was brought in. And it is also no surprise that it was missed to react in 2002 when, contrary to the law, the report was not done at all, and Mr. Radoš, as minister of the time, knows very well.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54827	Dear Representative Frano Piploic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54828	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So let me, at the beginning of my presentation, actually state one of my own personal views in view of the ongoing debate. I don't think it's a good idea for us to bite each other like this, and that the basis behind that biting together is a debate about the Croatian army. Talking about the Croatian Army, or the Croatian Armed Forces, is impossible not to remember all those circumstances, the conditions when this armed force was created and how it was created. There are a lot of emotional relationships and relationships, and I think that most of us are in some emotional relationship that when we remember these beginnings, then we remember what the circumstances were and what the fears were, which the love, which the flame was in us to create that army. I come from an area where this army, this armed force, was created by people, citizens, peasants who created this Croatian army in jeans and shoes. The people who had, some who were privileged in the system back then, had some of the hunting weapons. Some in Djura Djakovic have done something in their own production and some in their own devices. And my God, when I saw all that, I was actually more afraid of that armed force, and I think they were afraid of such a single armed force themselves. I remember on January 22, 1991, when these same people gathered at 3 locations, in Oriovac, Podvinj and Vrpolje. When I saw that weapon, which is, that... that day was the day it was supposed to be a coup in the former Soviet Union. I've actually seen in all these people one big heart but I've actually seen cannon meat in these people. Therefore, here is a small introduction to the debate on the Croatian Army. I know we're poor, that we don't have the material resources to make such a high-quality, efficient military system. But every military system in which there is no heart and no good organization despite the technique it falls and collapses. This was proved in the end by the Homeland War, in which the Croatian Army was created. Based on this report, I'd say a few things that we can influence and try to do and do. The definition is that, and here, it is said in this report itself, it is well estimated that in this thorny area of south-east Europe a little things are stabilised, and by the basis of this one process here is one assessment and an assessment that Croatia is not threatened. It means that as an armed force, we have to organize ourselves differently. We politically opted to put some of our protection under the NATO umbrella when the time comes for that prey. It means that a bit of the extent that Croatian society is democratisationd and organised to this extent, the Croatian military or armed forces are being demilitarized. So we have one process of creating one environment for planning and creating means the civil defence system of Croatia and Croatia. Like Croatian society in one transition process, one important component of this society is armed forces. And they're in one process of transition. We are reading this report today and discussing it at a time when we live in a distance between a military defense for which we do not have the means and one of our orientations towards a civil defence component that is slowly forming. However, while this reform process is going on, I think we should all argue that it should not be allowed to disdain or mock with this important component of our society, meaning with Croatian armed forces, armed forces. I said a little while ago, so let's try to influence what we can influence. I think that at this point we can influence that military properties, the resources that the Croatian military has in store for them by the logic of a good master, to a little include them in the economic system of Croatia's development. We can also influence that while our young men are in the military to learn and learn, there is no problem that has been presented here during this debate that the media has talked about and told the last media. We can also influence the preservation of personnel, respect for the remaining warriors presently in the armed forces of Croatia, that they cannot be handled as objects. These people deserve respect, one fair and correct relationship. We can also influence that we do not share these personnel on those who support one political option or another political option. All these people participated and built this country. There were still words during the debate here and about the civil service of the military. Let me say some things about what the media recently wrote about. The media reported that, at least recently, there was a collapse of the military obligation system and such an assessment was made on the basis of the departure of Croatian recruits to civilian military service. And it is said that it has taken drastic proportions. It even lists some areas of Croatia from which some military bonds are happy to serve the military deadline. This includes Pazin, Rijeka, Dubrovnik and Zagreb and those who are happy to go to the Croatian army are young people with the war of the affected areas of Sisak, Gospić, Vukovar, Slavonski Brod, Požega, Bjelovar. There is another assessment that is given which can serve us proudly, meaning those who take care of the Croatian army today, the armed forces, that the young people of Serbian nationality are happy to join the Croatian army. I think it's a good trend to be commended. When it comes to data, they say it's in the past year, and here colleagues have already pointed out that it was planned to direct the armed forces to 16 thousand handcuffs but that 9000 375 have applied for civilian military service. No one has officially given a satisfactory answer to this trend. It was also a matter of objecting to conscience. The Institute of Consciousness is one of the institutes with which we can also be proud of what counterpart Kovacevic also spoke about earlier. However, this seems to be often used, often without control, and where people simply use the institute for everything. And it is noted in these texts that, say people who own the entire arsenal of guns at home have fine and weapons papers, that they are members of hunting associations and will not go to serve the Croatian army. Why do people avoid that? That hasn't been answered yet, and it would be good to hear that answer right here. Is the reason our youngsters are incompetent means that some sort of incompetence monster... So something's wrong with our health education, we need to determine what the reason is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is there a reason for unquality programs, manual training? Is there any other reason? In any case, it would be good to get answers in this House so that we could propose and take quality measures. And for the very end, I would like to thank my colleague Caina and other colleagues who have spoken about military production and supported what Đuro Djakovic has done so far and worked for a part of the military production to be in Slavonski Brod. I thank you on behalf of four hundred employees at the Special Vehicle Factory in Slavonski Brod. It would be really nice to develop this domestic production because during the war we... produced in the same "Đuri Đakoviću" military production with which we have defended Croatia now we have conditions, workers and will to make one quality sophisticated military production that could be the basis for economic development and "Đure Đaković" and Slavonski Brod and Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54829	Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54830	Well, here's actually the first thing I'd like to say is what my colleague Piploic said. He said, quote him, "It's not right for us to bite each other here." It was probably either inaccuracy, etc. But this would turn out to be a comparison of fellow MPs with animals, dogs, I don't know what to do, so it seems inappropriate, so that's why I'm correcting it. I didn't see anyone bit anyone here. It may be inaccuracy, but I really think it needs to be fixed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54831	Replicated representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54832	Dear Mr. President, the very teaching presentation of an esteemed colleague as we can influence, because look, we can already have a direct impact, given the fact that 600 military officers and tenants are now available at 4 months this year, will be out of service, will end up on the road. We can now influence the defence minister to take appropriate measures regarding these things being carried out, as it is the case for the Croatian defenders, many of them were volunteers of the Homeland War. So it can also be influenced that the minister finally sits down with the unions and accepts these petition things. Unfortunately, we also tried that in the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Committee did not want to discuss it at all. So we can influence that these things are not good, which are not implemented as they should, to protect Croatian defenders who have and to protect themselves according to the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, these are the people who were in the war, who have been prepared and means in the reconstruction of these things that the Ministry should do about... for other things, to make that part timely and to deploy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there are a lot of situations where we can influence, so we have to draw a line and solve what we can from the defence plan, from the long-term development plan of the armed forces, from the structure of the acts, the pyramids of the acts, to the military officers of the furniture as well as the members of the armed forces themselves, meaning that they have the status of an active military person, who will also end up to 16 thousand in this same way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54833	Next replica, respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54834	Your Honor, I'd like to rephrase what my colleague said about civilian military service. Namely, counterpart Piploic said that there should be an answer here that leads to the growing choice of young people to go to civilian military service, and if I am not mistaken, it is even in the form of a question whether there is a disease, etc. I really think that it is inappropriate to compare it with any disease, I am one of those who is for the professionalization of the military, here is one of the representatives and this Parliament in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and I think that Croatia that has gone far, let's say, in this process here, that we are becoming more acceptable to NATO, that we should also explain what NATO is and that is one of the tasks that we explain to people that this is not about the bloc division in which NATO is what it was, etc. and that just as effective small highly trained units in an anti-terrorist global concert that would ensure the safety of all and so on in Croatia, we should not actually regret the mass army, which I know nor declare those who choose civil service to military service to these conditions, as the law now regulates to choose or declare them in any way sick. I think to the goal of a highly trained professional army, although it's really more expensive than this, but I think that should be our goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54835	Replica response, respected representative Frano Piploić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54836	Well, I'd like to answer my colleague Jurovic the following way. I suppose he does not advocate that metaphors are abolished here in the Croatian Parliament as metaphorical expression, meaning what is said is said in the form of metaphor. It's a fact that this number that I said is correct and I asked myself a question means that someone should answer that if we are, so I didn't say that people are sick. But when you've already honored me, we've been born and lived in the past system, sometimes in the past system it's been a shame not to go into the army, sometimes the boy couldn't get married, sometimes the whole village gossiped about this man, hence the facts, in the military, in the Croatian army not learning to kill there, there learning to love the country, socialize on the basis of the value of our society, there eventually learning other programs that can later use the man in his life... So these are things that I stand for until one day we reach the system, so NATO system, and then we will have our own defense system, our own security system, hence our responsibility that we cannot amnesty. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54837	The next replica, the respected representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54838	At one point, Kolega Piploić said that we should see what is wrong with the health system because so many of our young people are going into civilian service of the military deadline from which it would be possible to conclude that they are practically sick people. I would ask that we do not really insult a large group of our fellow citizens, and last year there was a civil service of over 10,000 Croatian citizens who chose such a way of serving a military deadline as their Constitutional and Legal Law. They have seen, and I can confirm from personal experience that they truly serve this country honorably, that they have helped in many situations and that they are doing that, fill those gaps which unfortunately the system, state or local self-government do not do in a sufficiently good way. For example, at the Municipal Court in Koprivnica, they helped digitize land books, I think it is a great contribution to the safety of the homeland, that it is a great contribution to Croatia's competitiveness, that it is in achieving some common goals and I think that those who did so have done a much better thing than, for example, being forced against their will to roll in mud for 6 months and train how to assemble or disintegrate a rifle. Therefore, let us not talk about being dishonest, not to mention that it is a civil illness to serve a military deadline, but to try in the best possible way to use those who have an obligation to serve a military term, today all have an obligation to serve a military term, men all, and when they have all the obligations, we allow them to use them in the most useful way.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54839	Replica response, respected representative Frano Piploić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54840	Well, dear fellow Mršić, here's a newspaper I'm not going to make now that I don't advertise them for nothing. Here's a statement that the resident Frane Krpan who says "I wanted to join the regular army, but in a civilian I can also study for exams." So that's one of the individual's views, you have a lot of those these days in the paper I wasn't talking about health reform but I was talking about health education, that's what I was talking about. We should see if we have any mistakes in our health care, for a large number of handbooks, or candidates for the army that did not go to serve, have said that it was because of their health incompetence. What you've said to the usefulness of this work, I'm not the least bit of nothing, on the contrary, and in my company, they've done the same thing on two occasions, and they've also seen that they've learned something. So that's part of what I agree with, and in this first part here's my answer. So I didn't declare anyone sick here, but the individuals themselves said they didn't go to the army because of incompetence, health incompetence.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54841	Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54842	Thank you, Mr. President. Here may be the surprise of our colleagues that I have reported in this debate, but I must say that my debate is going, not to look at what was in the armed forces but primarily in this report, I would like to concentrate on the part relating to military service and professionalisation of the military because it is in the extreme line and interest and our young members of the Croatian People's Party on missions carried out by the armed forces, on the desolation of military facilities and military infrastructures and on the relatively poor condition of other techniques in, military techniques and on human resources management, or on housing that was also covered by this report. I would like to underline that the bipolar relations that prevailed until the end of the Cold War were relatively simple. But today the world faces a more complex, much more complex security situation and new circumstances are trying to respond to the new circumstances of various global and regional international organisations. The fact that the region in which we are located has become relatively safe and stable in the meantime does not change the interest of the Republic of Croatia to contribute to the preservation of a peaceful and stable environment by entering various international organisations primarily in NATO and the European Union. Although the Republic of Croatia is in a relatively stable environment after a long time, the importance of armed forces should not be ignored. However, given that the circumstances have changed and that we are getting closer to Euro-Atlantic integration, reforms, lasting and much greater armed forces at all levels need to be approached. The reform should be approached with a high dose of professionalism and responsibility. It is about the fact that the Republic of Croatia probably ended up fighting for the defence of its territory for a long time. In Southeast Europe, there are some more insecure and unstable areas such as Kosovo or a possible conflict between Albanians and Macedonians in Macedonia, and therefore plays an important role and a secure and well-equipped army. Euro-Atlantic integration is getting closer to us but in them we will be marginal characters without one disciplined, professional and organized army. Such an army unfortunately the Republic of Croatia still does not have one. In my further discussion, I will focus on this very point and pay particular attention to the implementation of the reform and certain shortcomings and failures that may have already been made. I have already pointed out that today’s threats give rise to a completely new character, and they are more and less likely to separate military and non-war components. This kind of threat is seen in international terrorism and in international organised crime. These threats affect the Republic of Croatia and should accordingly be prepared in order to meet such challenges properly and properly and in a timely manner. Given that there are few, small possibilities of conventional military threats to the Republic of Croatia and the increasing likelihood of asymmetric threats should work on increasing participation in the collective security of Euro-Atlantic integration. The report shows that the Republic of Croatia participates in 9 peacekeeping missions, which is commendable for all. The Croatian Army could be one of our export products and if there was a good perspective for this, it would also indicate the choice of Croatian General Repinc as commander of the UN peacekeeping mission in India and Pakistan. In this regard, every training and education programme of our soldiers should be welcomed both for participation in international missions and for domestic needs. Of course, in export products there should also be mentioned our industry which could be significantly more represented. However, in this light, the principle of reform of the Croatian Army should be quality ahead of quantity. Over the past few years, more and more demands have been made for civil military service. For example, in 2000, there were 668 demands, while in 2005 there were as many as 10 thousand. The military obligation began to be seen as something completely irrelevant in the life of a young man, and it tries to escape in every possible way, even at the cost of not giving up the call and avoiding military service. This is namely represented, it is a criminal offence which refers to the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia during 2005. In fact, 102 criminal charges were filed against those who did not respond to the call for military service, and 28 years of life ended. Given whether it is really necessary to insist on a mandatory military deadline or perhaps, however, it is better to invest barely enough resources from the Budget in regular professional soldiers who will be excellently educated, trained and well equipped. Such soldiers can be found in the NATO alliance for example. More quality soldiers will be needed in the alliance. For this reason, there should be no problem with extending the alliance, but if the Republic of Croatia really joins NATO it will have to be ready to send its soldiers to places that are extremely dangerous. In such places it is absurd to send people who, for example, will plant their weapons. It should also look back on the very poor condition of good, as far as the battle techniques of the armed forces are concerned. The military facilities themselves are old and technologically, with technologically outdated equipment and installations, which requires great maintenance efforts. Although there is a plan to reduce the number of military facilities, its implementation is extremely slow, and this is an additional burden on the defence budget. For example, municipal fees must also be paid for those military facilities which are closed as they must be physically provided and maintained. There are a million better ways to invest that money in the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. As regards the regularity of key combat techniques and other techniques, a major problem of obsolescence and slow renewal of existing combat techniques must be highlighted. This is particularly visible in the combat technique of the Land Army where no satisfactory item can be found. The tanks are old and technologically outdated. The engineering technique is also over 30 years old, which is really unacceptable for a serious army. There's a shortage of funds to demining. Mines in Croatia are still a huge problem. The communication equipment is unreliable, inadequate and so forth. Similar problems are seen in the Croatian Air Force as well as in the Croatian Navy. Something that my colleague Lucin said here, unfortunately about the Coast Guard, we also see that, unfortunately, there is no word in this report. If European integration is our interest and goal, and is how are we going to achieve this state of combat technique? To begin with, it is necessary to stop the uncontrollably draining of weapons from military warehouses and to introduce control of the numerical state of combat technique. That a weapon disappears can even be understood but it is incomprehensible that no one notices it for several years. In addition to the above, an urgent strategy for modernising the existing but primarily supplying new weapons and equipment is needed. To this end, considerable budget resources should be allocated and we therefore appeal to the intelligent and rational distribution of budgetary resources. As regards the management of human resources 4 of these programmes: staff procurement, professional development, staff support and staff assignments should be commended. It is a very thoughtful programme based on an analysis of problematic areas and has slowed down ageing forces and has planned to repair irregular age structures. Professional development opens up the possibility of reaching an international standard in military education and training, which contributes significantly to the approximation of the Republic of Croatia to the Western countries on this issue. Also, these standards determine the inability of further professional development. Perhaps only for the end, because I see time running out, so the future reform of the Armed Forces should go in the direction of professionalisation of the Croatian Army and the abolition of the mandatory military deadline. This will save certain funds that can then be targeted, redirected to modernising and improving the state of the Armed Forces. Without such modernisation, the Croatian Army will not be too interesting for the International Community, the euro of Atlantic integration that are the safety holders of our region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54843	Thank you. A list of speakers for the individual debate has been exhausted. We have five minutes of discussion. Dear Representative Damir Cain on behalf of the IDS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54844	Honorable Mr. President, esteemed ministers, esteemed Mr. MPs. The highest quality of this report I will review it in what can be said to be the first peacetime report. That is because it is clear that Croatia is not threatened by a war threat by someone, and that is, by my court, the highest quality of it. So, Croatia, regardless of what was at war with Serbia-Montenegro, is aware that there will be no more war here and it is time to turn to a good neighbourly policy, complete trade cooperation, etc. Secondly, gentlemen, let's also abandon the demagogy that in this hour the army needs to be more singled out. Yes, but Croatia can no longer stand out than it stands out. It is a second quality that we single out almost least for the military in Europe 1.8 to 2% of gross social product. It's better in my court to invest 500 million kunas in health care, education, roads, infrastructure than tanks and armored transporters. The truth is, as Mr Hebrang says, Croatia will have a gross product of more than eight or nine billion kuna next year and the state will therefore catch 4 to 4 and a half billion kuna, but it will also have greater needs for salaries, for health care, for pensions, for the welfare of disabled people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and it means so much about mixing pears and apples. The third quality is redecorated. Today, Croatia has 25,000 active military personnel. In three, four years, there will be 16000 plus 2,000 civilians. And it's too much. It would probably be ideal somewhere around 12,000. However, the fact is that we will introduce order in the army according to the highest standards, and what about the administration, the judiciary, etc. A fourth quality that is intended to be abolished by military service. And the fifth to participate in military missions. I don't mean Iraq, God forbid we go there more than it is and Croatia is obliged to repay those countries that had UNPROFOR members here, etc. The biggest problem of the Croatian Army is that the reconstruction is carried out by retirement, i.e. We're sending a soldier from the budget to the pension budget. Second, we shut down the military industry through which we should modernize the military and export the equipment. Third, what former military properties are failing. Fourthly, what we de facto I dare say is to destroy the institute or shut down for research because his budget in the army is only 1.2 million kuna. And fifth, which in our army is easier to get drugs than on the street. To end, we must free ourselves of perception that we are a military power, we must understand that we are not threatened at this time by military danger, by being a country of limited budgetary possibilities, and that the country must invest in development at this time before it is immobilized through the military. So between an additional 0.1 or 0.2% of gross social product for the military, which is 250 to 500 million kuna, I will always raise my hand before that 250 to 500 million kuna ends up in health care, in school, it doesn't matter, infrastructure, etc. So, let's increase the gross social product and then there'll be a bigger separation for the military. Otherwise, let us remain at this cost of 1.8% and it is not that NATO is asking for more when Slovenia singles out at this time 1.7% of its gross social product. I'm convinced next year we'll be even less singled out for the military, and that's unfortunately Croatian reality, because between bankrupt health and the military, any rational government will rather take care of health care. As far as NATO is concerned, I'd like him to break up when the Warsaw Pact does, but it won't work without NATA. Croatia will not join the European Union either. Croatia is NATO in some way connected with America and in some ways it is a guarantee of peace. And God forbid they die as soon as possible, as the Head of the Army would say, that the police take on military, security obligations, but we're not even the Dubrovnik Republic that we can only defend ourselves by diplomacy, or by any Austrian to defend ourselves by science, or by Switzerland to defend ourselves by banking. Europe defends itself with NATO, America, the Russians with atomic weapons, even though we can see it's not working either. But first of all, let's be rational and introduce this principle of rationality into the military. For the end of one last sentence, we are truly working with that reshuffle in the army. It will end in two or three years' time in the NATO standard, meaning a European standard. But what about management and other social activities even though it's clear the next day will...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54845	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Pejo Trčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54846	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is an incorrect quote from Mr. Cain who said that today it is easier to find drugs and get to drugs in the Croatian Army than on the street. This is Mr. Cain's very serious accusation and don't make such a serious point of awareness of such unserious matters because it is so unacceptable for the Croatian military to speak of it. It is lawful to talk about it, about its need and everything else, about how much and what it is, but such accusations and qualifications about the Croatian Army are certainly inadmissible.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54847	The club of representatives of the CNS, respected representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54848	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party, I have proposed two conclusions. The first is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to propose a long-term development plan to the Croatian Parliament by 30 June 2006 because it is a fundamental document on which the development of the armed forces should rest. A strategic defence review is an inventory that needs to be seen how the armed forces agree with existing documents, and we have no existing documents except of course the defence strategy. Therefore, the document which is the secondary document, which is the technical document, cannot be left as the main document. For four years, there has been an obligation by the Ministry of Defence, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to propose to the Croatian Parliament this long-term plan for the development of the armed forces, and this has not happened. This is something that is very difficult to understand, and therefore we propose that by the end of this year, by the end of this year, the Croatian Assembly should propose a long-term plan of disarmed forces and all that is in this document to the strategic review of the defence as a consequence of the review, so analysis, inventory, and not planning to make it truly an official document that will then be clearer to us which way we want to go. Otherwise, a lot of questions are open in that sense. A strategic defence review opens up a series of questions that will not be easily answered. It is a question of the structure of the Croatian Air Force and the Croatian Navy. It seems to me that in the defence review, that is, in his proposals that raises the issue of position, the size of the Croatian mainland army is relatively well solved. But the Croatian Navy, which has almost no NATO requirements for the Republic of Croatia and for the Croatian Air Force where there are certain requirements, but which are not in line with what we might expect there are no real answers. And we need to give these answers so that we can see clearly which way Croatian Armed Forces will go. And those answers, such large answers, cannot be given by anyone else but by the Croatian Parliament. We now propose that the Croatian Government propose this key document to the Croatian Parliament by 30 June this year. By the way, I personally think there is no need for a new national security strategy or a new defence strategy. Everything that was written in those strategies four years ago and the time they were brought in did not matter. So I don't think there's any need for new strategies. First, with regard to what the Croatian Party's Representatives Club has proposed. The second conclusion, i.e. the proposal for a conclusion, is that the Government undertakes that an annual report on the situation in the Armed Forces is indeed an annual report and is submitted by 31 March of each year for the previous year. It's an important report. It is an important segment of the state system and the Croatian Parliament should be monitored annually for what is happening in this system, not according to what is appropriate to the Ministry of Defence or to some structures in the Ministry of Defence. Perhaps the consequences of this report, or there might be some reaction, some reaction that is necessary, and therefore this properly defined timetable of reporting, and then possible reactions of the Croatian Parliament are necessary. Not to mention that reactions through the budget can also be very important, and the Croatian Parliament is also in charge of this reaction. So we suggest no more improvisation. We should have had four reports on the basis of the law by now. This is just another report we're getting. Therefore, every year by March 31st, the Croatian government, based on the law it requires, should submit a report to the Croatian Parliament on the situation in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54849	Thank you. Now the HDZ club, the respected representative Kresimir Cosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54850	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Modernization of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. We will all agree, without the Croatian arms industry and military equipment it is unacceptable, it is unacceptable. But understanding the complexity of what the arms and military equipment industry is based on is a major failure and could condition what can easily happen to ask someone to produce something that they do not fully understand, something that has never produced and that is the form I would say very risky and irresponsible behavior and use of the state budget. These discussions about the military industry remind me of one moment in 1996. I led a series of Croatian Army generals to visit the United States Government, and on that occasion we had the opportunity to see between the other and the Apollo 15 platform. We were walking, commenting, and then a general was looking at that shell, and today he was still at the main headquarters saying something like this, but it doesn't seem impressive, it seems to me that the First May in Zagreb would do better. And such discussions when we talk about the arms industry and military equipment, expectations that could be produced in Croatia today, and also yesterday in the Croatian Parliament, and this is the form of behaviour that simplifies the complexity of serious problems in each country. The military equipment weapons industry, I said yesterday, was tied to 42% of Serbia, 45 Bosnia and Herzegovina, a 95% survey and development of Belgrade, a military-technical institute. And therefore, in such circumstances in 1991, the Croatian arms and military equipment industry was created in an unregulated and improvised way, with limited results and achievements, without the lack of adequate scientific and research infrastructure. And her final results, unfortunately, came down on the pistols on the helmet. It is certainly not enough, it is certainly not a foundation that can be a good basis for more ambitious, more complex, I would say justifiably demanding projects than the military equipment weapons industry in the Republic of Croatia. With those experiences I had back then, over 20 years of research and development on various military projects, not only in the former state, but also in the United States, at a respected university... I knew what and how to react and how to function. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In 1996 we launched a postgraduate study aimed at and running and managing mobile facilities for the needs of the Ministry of Defence where more than 30 people were mastered. The results are impressive. One of these results was also a digital model, or prototype, anti-aircraft system management system. The American company... In 1998, in its "Innovation in the field of rocket technology" encyclopedia, the results of the institute and these young people who did it quoted them as saying. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today, in 2007, none of these people are present at the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia. And the Institute of Defence Studies almost doesn't exist. Creating values, creating foundations is not easy. To destroy, it was unfortunately much simpler. And that's reality. This reality is illustrated by this booklet by William Perri, former U.S. Defence Minister who personally opened the Institute, who personally became the Honorary Doctor of the University of Zagreb and who held a series of useful lectures at a time when some said that Croatia was isolated. One of the lectures Croatia should be part of the global industry of man who founded Silicon Valley, a man who started the American arms and military equipment industry in the 1970s. The man also lectured seven years ago "The Security Strategy for the 21st Century". These were results during the HDZ government 95, 96, 97, 98, 99. Unfortunately, there's no more of this today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54851	For the club HSLS, DC and LS, respected representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54852	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. What this debate yesterday and today on this very important subject showed, and yet that we are almost able to say, all aware of the situation that the opportunities from the beginning of the 1990s to today in 2006 have changed significantly. And certainly, then, the rules, or certain attitudes and certain behaviors, and a particular paradigm that was then desirable to almost look a little funny today. And what's really like me as a liberal always fear, is when any segment of our society or any institution, we have one relationship mythically towards it, and how many times maybe the two biggest parties could be recognized and recognized as being then in the 90s was worth exactly that, the army was incomparable value and no one about the military had to say anything bad, that although every critical or otherwise critical speech was seen as actually an enemy act, so unfortunately, and today, sometimes, when it's trying to point out certain problems that exist in the Croatian Army, then it's also treated completely differently, it's not perceived as one well-intentioned criticism but either as a finding fact at all but it's also trying to attribute something that has absolutely no connection with it. And these discussions today show itself, that we are aware that something has to change and what's most important is that we are aware as Parliament's representatives, aware of our public knowledge as well as aware of the ministry and is actually going with certain solutions, a particular strategy that should change that paradigm again, which is somehow still greatly influenced by what happened in the 1990s when we really made the Croatian Army... Here we are today and in the benches so little ran out, it was interesting to observe and who were all army ministers, except it seems to me only one that really came from the army itself, it was at the very beginning Mr. Špegelj, and later it was precisely that the largest number, or more or less all ministers with it did not have too much freshness. [[You don't understand.]] I say again as a liberal and that couple of exellance should be against every terror or government of experts, but sometimes I fear that these resistances could be rather drastic, but it still shows that I would rather say one of the healths of Croatian society or certain times, or the opportunities in which they live than those people themselves. And what we would have to insist on as a liberal, and that is precisely the fact that the professionalization of the Croatian military is really something that has to happen, which is once again related to the abolition of this permanent military obligation and itself, because reality itself is actually denying it and it is really proving that a growing number of young people want to serve, civil service and it is good. And it's very interesting that in fact now the civil service military term is being called upon by those who up to the 1990s were quite opposed to it precisely because they're from those paradigms from that consciousness when it... Serving a military term, objecting to conscience was treated as a difficult enemy act, or possibly under the headings of severe mental patients. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]] There have been many examples of those years, I say it's good when today there are those people who have treated it differently, today they are aware that it is still a civil gain that our youngsters finally show and there is nothing wrong with it. It just shows, in fact, that exactly one reaction that these generations are fed up with war. These are people, these are children who still came from the basement and who have experienced too much of that war in the worst possible way and finally a little bit of that institution like the army it always has one thing to say by holding back the repressive model of behavior and action and that today's generation simply refuses and that they choose some other forms where they also participate in creating this public and social life, and it should not be imagined. And normally the same as the liberal, if we must already have a professional army, if we want to participate in all of this... the processes then that the creation of a basis for the development of the Croatian military industry is something that is also necessary and the ministry also needs to be worked on, as well as from the Liberal Party, or from the club, we give full support. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54853	Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54854	So the wrong colleague claimed that only once in the former system was it considered that the objection to conscience was something that was so mildly said embarrassing. He used a different term, though, and fortunately, we all realized that that was not the case. Simply a colleague of Kramarić's, you probably missed this morning's debate with his colleague, Rebić, who has just collapsed to his conscience and to the civil service of the military. So we haven't come to that degree that you spoke so well of in the closing words yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54855	For the SDP club, respected representative Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54856	My colleagues and colleagues very briefly, I will try to sum up in this final word what are the fundamental remarks of the SDP club. This report was very useful and signifying to us because we read two key facts from it. The first is the fact that the situation in the defence system of the Republic of Croatia is at the border of what can be called satisfactory, so it is not good, it is very critical and it is looking for intervention and another important fact that we also concluded from the report, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has ignored this fact, this first fact and insufficient concern, insufficient material support, insufficient attention in all respects did not do everything it could and had to do to raise the defence system's readiness to a higher level. Step by step according to our capabilities and needs, but still to rise. Unfortunately, the report shows that the preparedness of the defence system is stagnating. One of the main reasons for this stagnation is that the civilian component of the defence system is completely neglected and almost nothing is done or any action is launched. We also conclude from the report itself that one of the major problems may not be the level of isolation, we do not want to open the controversy whether it is 2% of the gross social product, more or less. This may be another opportunity, but what is certainly unacceptable is that the sources of funding are not stable and that the defence system is never sure how much funds it will have in the long run. And for that reason, in an inability to make long-term plans that are the only possible plans to talk about raising the readiness of the defence system. The needs of defence, i.e. the needs of the defence system, must be far greater drivers of development, production and export of the Republic of Croatia. That was the case, and we can discuss it at some other points of the agenda. When we talk about the people, or personnel in that defence system, we think that material status, should be far more specific, should be supported much more specifically. In this connection, the professionalisation of the Armed Forces should be carried out as soon as possible as possible, because the announcement of professionalisation itself and then the delaying of this will bring the Armed Forces itself to even greater problems in relation to the manual composition. When a professionalization is announced, then she must have a quick time. There is much more to worry about human potentials, using them according to criteria, rather than rewarding those who violate the rules of service, and punishing those who are good and especially those who have specialist titles. Invest more in education, research and development together with the entire civil education system, but also with the overall economy. And finally, we want to launch an initiative. In fact, we think it would be good at this stage of the development and modernisation of the Armed Forces to consider and launch a Subcommittee on Armed Forces within the framework of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. To take a more active role in monitoring the long-term development and modernisation of the Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54857	Thank you. For the Club of Independent Representatives, respected representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54858	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. It is good that we have had this report and this report is actually talking about the overall readiness and ability of the Croatian Army. I think there is no one in this hall who is not proud of the Croatian Army, of what the Croatian Army achieved in the first years, there until 95th with the completion of the magnificent actions "Blash" and "Storm". After that, of course, with the end of peaceful reintegration on January 15, 98, we were all in a certain way, including in the Croatian Army, seeking adjustment. Adaptation to peacetime conditions. So, the war is over, the judgment of the years that followed, in the 21st century, that in these places for long there will be no, and I believe there will be no war action. The Croatian Army was also required to adapt to NATO standards, i.e. those set before us by the European Union, or NATO. We have seen and we are aware that the state budget lacks financial resources. We are aware of this, and this report confirms that the technical equipment and infrastructure of the Croatian Army is poor, that the equipment is outdated. But what I'm doubling, and about this particular fact, about what's not disputed. If the technical equipment of the Croatian Army is outdated, respecting that human potential where we have more or less repeated everyone in our discussions that it is of high quality, that it has potential. However, we return to this technical equipment and let me doubt if the technical equipment of the Croatian Army, both the land army and the military, or the navy at low levels, if the equipment is outdated then I don't think it can be established that the Croatian Army can respond to all tasks that as an armed force, I won't use the armed force because the force is something that is strong, which is equipped, which is good. I don't think the Croatian Army's equipment is good, and we can't even use the term "arms force". We've seen and detected problems related to whether or not security services, how they feed in the military. We've also seen about the problem of a large number of illnesses. That's where I'd point especially to that illness from, uh, mental illness. So, a lot of problems. The Croatian public has not yet received an answer to the question of what it means to join the NATO alliance. We did not get an answer to the question of what it means to be a professional army, which is the number, how much funding we have to secure, what it means financially, and how many years Croatia has to allocate and how much financial resources to meet NATO standards. I think this ministry, i.e. MORH, needs to answer these questions in one report, and very quickly, to the Croatian Parliament, and finally to the Croatian public. I think Croatia should have a quality, solid, well-organised professional army. I think in the next period, very briefly, that the mandatory military deadline, or civil service and the military should be abolished and that the Croatian army should actually adapt to NATO standards. But that the Croatian public, and especially this Parliament in which it is decided, need to know clearly and transparently what it means for the Croatian Army, for the Croatian state and how much it will cost us. And finally, the Independent Representatives Club accepts this and information in a way that accepts it, what the information says. So it is in facts about the situation in the Croatian Army and we are experiencing this information as information about the current, or current situation in the Croatian Army.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54859	Thank you. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic on behalf of the Proposer of the proposal for a conclusion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54860	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Here, as a proposer on behalf of the Croatian party club, I will be brief. We are glad at the Croatian Party club that this debate has broken one false thesis that has so far ruled, which is that the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia are a burden of budget. This debate has just shown that the modern and modern armed forces of the Republic of Croatia will not be a burden on the state budget but will be a contaminant and bearer in one part and economic development if the military industry and science and everything else are taken into account. It is important that the message from this debate that the Croatian people understand that armed forces are not a burden and that is why I think the situation is clear, we have located the situation and the problems, there is no more to wait for. We need to go into changes and additions, i.e. reviewing the Defence Strategy, bring an immediate long-term plan to the development of the armed forces, bring up a defence plan, and then we can only work systematically to get to the armed forces and to the defence system that will be ready and that will not be a burden to this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54861	Thank you. Defence Minister Berislav Roncevic, draft report.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54862	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Very briefly respecting the fact that now it's going to take a break for lunch. I thank you for all the debates, and I thank you for all the suggestions. A very short assessment and a review of several exhibitions that went to the end of this debate. The Croatian government has not left its concern about the defence and security system, it is definitely, the process of reducing the share of the defence budget in the gross social product is a process which took place in 2000 and in the mandate of the last government. So nothing happens, but nothing happens and... of what has been happening in the transition countries that are still members of NATO today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Slovenia has 1,71% in this year 2006 share of the defence budget in the total gross social product, the Baltic countries have lower than us, we can talk in absolute sizes translated into the euro which is the same, but we cannot talk about leaving this segment by the Croatian government in particular about the development of the Croatian military industry during the last year, when we talk about an armored vehicle of infantry which is our strategic product, which is a product that we will use for both activities and in the country, and for the purposes of the participation of the Croatian military in international peacekeeping missions, has made a clear decision to task the Ministry of Defence to negotiate with the domestic company Djuro Djakovic special vehicles which is in the full Croatian ownership of the production of 126 infantry armored vehicles. If the Croatian government didn't worry about it, it would certainly not have made such decisions. We have several very significant worldwide successful military producers, I will not name their names so as not to make any accusations that I am advertising one in relation to the competition, but we have something to offer both for Croatian needs and for the needs of other armies. Our position is, the Ministry of Defence will give every domestic producer an opportunity to prove themselves both a quality, but normally and a price, because we still have to move in some real frameworks. The value of the Croatian Army for me as a minister and a member of the Croatian Government and the Croatian Government is uncontestable, we thank God we are not at war today, Croatia today is not threatened by any armed aggression and today's members of the Croatian Army cannot show you that they are ready in war conditions because thank God the war is not threatening us either, but be assured that they are ready, and that this is a confirmation that the Croatian public believes the Croatian military is also the result of the examination of the public change on the trust of the Croatian state institution the Croatian Army is elsewhere behind the Catholic Church and we are proud and we will try to remain that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54863	Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on these two agenda points. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing at 3:00 with a debate on the Justice System Reform Strategy with an action plan. Secondly, the proposal for an annual report on the preparedness of the defence system, the implementation of the Staff Policy and the overall state of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, with a report on the implementation of the defence plan and defence preparations. I am voting on the proposal for an annual report. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 70 votes for, 15 abstentions and 13 against, an annual report was adopted in the text as proposed by the applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54866	Mr. President, the government accepts the proposed conclusions since they are on the trail of both the report's content and the statements made by the defence minister as a representative of the government in the Parliament, and the proposed deadlines have been set realistically. The government therefore accepts these two conclusions.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54867	Thank you. Please, Comrade Radosh, can I help you?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54868	The second conclusion was due on March 31st, you said December. If it's December, it's a mistake.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54869	I said December?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54870	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-01-0.u54871	Then it's March because it says March here. March 31st, yes. Please, let's get on with it. We have to vote. To vote. The result? With 96 votes in favour and 2 abstentions, the proposed conclusions were adopted. Third, there's a representative just left the hall, Zuzul. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the debate on 11. The strategy for reforming the judicial system, with the plan of action, was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Justice, for local regional self-government and by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the reports at the session. Justice Minister Vesna Škare Ozbolt will further explain the proposal for a reform strategy of the judicial system with a plan of action in a way that will be appropriate to expose it in the most appropriate way. Here you go, Minister.
