ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75505	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs. As the president said, the Agency is in accordance with Article 36. The Law on the Protection of Competition must provide the Croatian Parliament with an annual report informing the Parliament as its founder of its work and the general public as well. It is also important to point out that the content and structure of the annual report for 2005 has been amended in relation to previous reports, since this report also contained the Agency's activities in implementing the State Aid Act, which was previously subject to a specific report by the Agency. The annual report is therefore structured and processed through two basic thematic units. The first shows the activities of the agency relating to the problem for the shields of competition in a narrow sense, i.e. Implementation of competition law, while the second described activities and work of the Agency in connection with the implementation of the State aid Act. For the first time, in order to gain full insight into the work of the Agency in the attached part of the report, the list and the most important features of all the subjects decided by the Competition Protection Council were given. During 2005, work was completed to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the European Union's acquis on competition, which is an obligation arising from the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. In this year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on a proposal from the Competition Protection Council, adopted two remaining regulations governing the conditions for common exceptions to the Insurance Agreement and the Technology Transfer Agreement, and a detailed overview of those Regulations is also contained in the report. However, given the fact that, during the deep review of the legislation, so-called legislation. the screening for the competition chapter identified the need for further improvement of domestic law in the field of competition, in particular when it comes to creating conditions for establishing a more effective and efficient system, the Agency will come forward with certain amendments and additions to the Competition Protection Act, i.e. to continue the process of harmonisation of legislation in order to address the law even before obtaining membership in the European Union and to draw attention to the system which is in force in the Union. In the implementation of the applicable Part-Corruption Act, administrative transactions include: assessment of restrictive agreements between entrepreneurs, determination of abuse of the ruling position of entrepreneurs and assessment of the authorisation of concentrations of entrepreneurs. At the same time, the Agency is empowered to give its views on the draft laws and regulations with the provisions of the Competition Protection Act as well as opinions at the request of entrepreneurs and other addresses of rules on the protection of competition. Therefore, the Agency's competences are set out in detail by law and its activities are aimed at carrying out the tasks and tasks resulting from this law of a defined part of the circle, and not all issues and problems affecting the conditions under which competition takes place in the Republic of Croatia, which are subject to other regulations, such as public procurement rules, unfair competition, trade policy, sectoral regulation of certain sectors, etc. I maintain the importance of stressing this in order to avoid possible misunderstandings and misunderstandings about the activity and work of the agency. During 2005, the agency completed procedures and decided on a total of 237 cases, so that a relatively high level of urgency was maintained this year in resolving the cases. In doing so, I find it important to mention the following. Determining and punishing the most difficult forms of prevention, distortions and restrictions on competition such as cartel agreements among entrepreneurs, i.e. prohibited agreements or agreed for example on prices, market share, production volumes, etc. In the modern law of competition protection, the most complex and difficult tasks of the competition protection body and the priority of each institution involved are considered to be the most complex and difficult tasks of the competition protection body. Similarly, it concerns preventing abuse of the ruling position of entrepreneurs in such a situation. These jobs are very complex. They require complex investigative procedures, economic and legal analysis, or evidence, and rarely lasts for years. Therefore, in developed countries, the effectiveness and results of the work of bodies such as our agency are no longer measured by the amount, i.e. by the number of cases solved, but by the quality of decisions taken and by the appropriate punishment of entrepreneurs who are in breach of competition by their behaviour. This should also be attributed to a small number of cases resolved in 2005 compared to 2004. This report sets out and detailed the Agency’s solutions which have interrupted the behaviour and practice of certain entrepreneurs contrary to the law. It was also warned of the fact that the Agency's decisions will not give adequate effect until the existing penal system is changed which is in the hands of the criminal courts today, which have imposed very small and symbolic penalties so far, in just a few cases. The second part of the Agency's activity concerns the giving of an opinion on the proposals of the law or other rules which act in the direction of promoting competition protection policy. In 2005, the agency gave 59 expert opinions which, among other things, pointed to some solutions to the law and other rules that lead to negative effects on competition, and of course to consumers. Here I particularly stress the opinion of the agency in relation to the way in which the tariff for legal services is determined, the way in which the taxi is arranged in the city of Zagreb, then in the Republic of Croatia, etc. The part of the report relating to state support describes the Agency's activities in the work on the adoption of a new State aid law which is fully in line with the EU acquis. In 2005, 91 cases were resolved in this area, but it should be pointed out that the largest part of the Agency's activities in this year were aimed at co-operation and communication with state support providers, as well as at meeting and education both the beneficiary of state aid on rules and new access to state aid, which on the one hand encourages the granting of those aids which have a minimal negative impact on the conditions under which entrepreneurs compete on the market and, on the other hand, prevents the spending of taxpayers' money for purposes which are not justified by public interest but only favours selected users. Given that it has also marked the beginning of negotiations on the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union in the past 2005 the problem of protecting competition from both the aspect of harmonisation of legislation and the aspect of its effective implementation, i.e. the fulfilment of commitments, has also gained a new dimension and importance. This confirms the progress report, "Progress Report" of the European Union, which, in addition to pointing to existing shortcomings and problems in this area, is still a failure of the functioning of the judiciary, the lack of a single competition system, when it comes to some sectors, such as telecommunications and banking, but it also notes some progress in this area. In relation to the Agency's work, it has been assessed that progress has been made with regard to the completion and conduct of the procedures, a positive assessment of the way in which the Agency is managed, and that the need to ensure financial resources so that the Agency can deal with significant and continuous increases in its business and needs. Finally, let me point out once again that the key activities of the Agency in 2005 as well as today focus on the best and more effective implementation of the Competition Protection Act and the State Aid Act, and that its powers are strictly limited to those rules. In this context and critical review of the results and effects of the Agency's work are welcome and can only help us in our further work. Although we are aware of the fact that there are often perceptions and expectations of the public in relation to the Agency's powers and capabilities over its law established activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75506	Thank you. The committee's reporters? For the economy, development and reconstruction, Committee President, Honored Representative Drago Pukleš, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75507	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed representatives of the Agency, the esteemed MPs. The Committee for the Economy, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament at the 47th session held on 15 November 2006 discussed the Annual Report on the work of the 2005 Competition Protection Agency, which was in accordance with Article 36(1) of the Croatian Parliament President’s opinion. The Competition Protection Act was submitted by the Competition Protection Council to the Act of 27 September 2006. In its opening statement, she submitted a representative of the applicant, stressing that all the cases handled by the Agency during 2005 were attached to the material and that it should bear in mind the competence of the Agency relating to state aid. She pointed out that the rights of the Agency relating to sanctioning illegality must be improved. The following will need to be amended by the Courts Act, and the decisions of the Agency in the second instance will be decided by commercial courts or administrative courts which are competent under the positive rules in the second instance. The main directions of the Agency's work are solutions related to cartel agreements, breach of the provisions on competition, giving opinions on draft laws and sublegal acts, and giving different indications. One of the essential competences of the Agency and the education of the parties related to state support, noting that the Agency also participated in the adoption of the State aid Act. Asked whether it would be effective to prescribe greater powers to the Agency in sanctioning the illegal conduct of the applicant's representative pointed out the existing situation that should certainly be changed because the Agency is reporting a breach to the competent court of law which, in the event of an appeal, must await a solution to the administrative court. And while all those actions are carried out, there is an outdated infringement procedure. In view of the current situation, the Authority’s view is that it should establish in its decisions possible illegal behaviour and sentence for the same, and the commercial court should be responsible for rulings on appeals against acts brought by the Agency. Following the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: The Annual Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2005 is accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75508	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. For the club of representatives of IDS esteemed representative Valter Poropat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75509	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable President of the Council for the Protection of Competitions with counterparts, colleagues and colleagues. Because of the awareness that competition and its regulation in the Republic of Croatia are very young disciplines that many entrepreneurs and the public have relatively little knowledge of, the Agency's report always has a certain educational note, and is supported by examples that illustrate the conduct in different cases. The IDS Club will support the Annual Report on the Agency's work on the protection of competition not only because of the detailed analysis of the Agency's reports and difficulties but also because of real and concrete proposals to improve the work of the Agency in which there is an effective competition, i.e. the establishment of a market where entrepreneurs participate equally and on equal terms, and their position on the market is only worth the quality of the products and services they offer. From the fact that the protection of competition and constitutional category, which provides all entrepreneurs with the same legal position on the market, and business and market freedom are the cornerstones of the economic structure of the Republic of Croatia, the strengthening of entrepreneurship is regulated by a competitive competition that raises quality and determines the price of products and services, and consumers are given the option to select more offered products and services than more bidders, which is the most important quality and at lower prices. It is precisely mentioned that the task of competition law which prevents any form of monopoly and prevents measures or practices on the market that may lead some entrepreneurs to an unwarranted advantage over others and endangers the freedom of competition. In fact, effective competition is the best incentive for entrepreneurs to produce quality products with the development of technological innovations, which enables the development of new, better and cheaper products, leading to increased competitiveness on both domestic and foreign markets. The task of the Competition Protection Agency is governed by the Law on the Protection of Competition with which the Croatian rules on the protection of competition fully comply with the primary source of competition law in the European Union, but in order to ensure that competition law is effectively implemented, it is necessary to promote and develop a competition culture. It is also necessary to cooperate with specific regulatory bodies such as those of the Agency. Cooperation with the Croatian National Bank regulator in the banking sector or the Telecommunications Agency, etc., etc. What the Agency does. Taking into account that the Law on the Protection of Competition in application from 1 October 2003 is a job of harmonising legislation in this area with the acquis of the European Union which is changing and supplementing the European Union, so that the monitoring and adaptation of Croatian legislation to the acquis of the European Union must be a permanent and continuous process and task until our membership in the European Union is achieved. The law provides for the adoption of a series of sub-legislative acts, and an important source of competition law in the European Union is judicial practice, and in order to effectively implement the law, a lot of efforts will need to be made to institutionally strengthen the Agency with the highest responsibility, but more specialisation of judges, i.e. courts deciding on the legality of the decisions of the Agency, will be necessary. Therefore, the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the courts, impose penalties on the Agency for implementing the provisions of the Competition Protection Act, i.e. Infringement courts and the High Violent Court of the Republic of Croatia. However, the question is raised here whether such things provide quick and effective legal protection, or in this way lead to the legal uncertainty of the parties due to the long-standing and administrative disputes, and whether it would be effective for the Competition Protection Agency to give greater power to amend the law or sublegal acts, so that decisions and solutions of the Agency must be implemented, and that in the jurisdiction of the Trade Court there is a control of the legality of these solutions and decisions of the Agency in order to properly set against the monopoly? This report shows that, in addition to intensive work in relation to the harmonisation of legislation with the acquis of the European Union, the Competition Protection Agency with the President of the Competition Protection Council has completed most of the cases received during this reporting period and, despite the fact that today its number of employees has remained significantly below the necessary number for the effective implementation of the Competition Protection Act, it has maintained a high level of urgency in 2005. The Agency's work in last year's part of state aid was dedicated in addition to solving regular cases and making a list of valid... State aid and other acts which have been fixed or given State support until the 2003 State aid Act enters into force. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The importance of the implementation of the harmonisation of the programmes and of the acts listed above is of particular importance for the opening of negotiations in the field of competition protection, the project has been launched... with Germany and Slovenia as partner countries financed by the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This project is intended to raise the professional capacity of the Agency and state aid providers and contribute, in addition to other things, to strengthen the cooperation of the providers and the Agency in the preparation of new State aid proposals, and is particularly useful when it comes to sensitive economic branches. With regard to the IDS Club, it will support the work report of the Competition Protection Agency for 2005. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75510	Thank you. For the HDZ club, respected representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75511	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Ms. President of the Council for the Protection of State Competition, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community's club assesses the annual report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency as positive and will support its acceptance. Since there is a special annual report from the Agency for the Protection of Competition on State Aid for 2005 in this presentation, I will only talk about the Agency's work in 2005. The positive work of the Agency is seen in the activities and results achieved in 2005 through the implementation of the competition protection process, affecting the efficiency of the economy at both micro-economic level and the implementation of the necessary reforms and the implementation of the relevant public finances at national level. The positive work of the Agency is also reflected in the active promotion of competition law and policy, in giving opinions on various proposals of public authorities' acts, in the presentations to relevant entrepreneurship forums, as well as analyses of certain activities in which there are certain barriers to market access, which, in general, do not find bases to protect economic and other public interests. The report shows that from the start of its work to the present day, the Agency has progressed in continuing work to improve its legal framework and propose new solutions that will in practice allow for a higher level of competition in the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, it is evident that in its work, the Agency has been serving the accumulated experiences of other countries, in particular the members of the European Union, and has been working in an appropriate manner to respect the settings of the Croatian legal system to promote and propose solutions that make the Croatian competition protection system modern and comparable with legal protection standards at European Union level. This work of the Agency was best reflected in the negotiations in the European Union accession process in which the competition was set as one of the criteria for the preparation and preparedness of the Republic of Croatia for membership in the European Union through the existence of a legal framework for the market economy and competition in the process of harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union. According to the report, the most important activities of the Agency in protecting competition are expressed through the following areas: assessment of restrictive agreements between entrepreneurs, determination of abuse of the ruling positions of entrepreneurs and assessment of the authorisation of concentration of entrepreneurs. The Agency has done very successfully its task by revealing and preventing the various forms of abuse that entrepreneurs make in the conclusion of restrictive so-called ‘restrictive’. cartel agreements and in the ruling position of entrepreneurs in which entrepreneurs most often take actions to prevent market access to new competitors, i.e. to prevent the survival of existing competitors on the market by forcing them to engage in illegal withdrawals from the market. The Agency has also shown through this report the importance of its preventive action on the market by getting to know entrepreneurs about the behaviours considered abuse of the ruling position in order to lead them to the fact that they are not trying to apply such behaviour in practice at all. The Agency has also demonstrated its successful work in the area of authorisation of the concentration of entrepreneurs by proving that the completely incorrect opinion that the concentrations of entrepreneurs are without exception harmful and therefore prohibits apriori. The exact opposite of the number of prohibited and conditional concentrations in both the Republic of Croatia and the European Union and the world is insignificant compared to the number of total concentrations carried out and below 1%. In the process of assessing the authorisation of concentrations and according to the criterion of its effects on the market, the Agency shall cooperate closely with all participants as well as with all entrepreneurs whose conduct of the concentration could have an effect. Prior to the final decision, the Agency shall always report extensively to the concentration participants on the negative effects of the concentration and enable them to find a solution which would remove these effects. In 2005, the Agency assessed a total of 31 concentrations. Of this number, as many as 18 concentrations are related to concentration in electronic media. During 2005, the Agency completed the proceedings or decisions in 237 cases in total. The Agency has also been particularly active in promoting competition law and policy and has also contributed significantly to the development of a culture of competition in the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian Democratic Community's club particularly observes the work of the Agency through the contribution to the overall economic development of the country, the policy instruments and the competition rights manifested in the prevention of non-market forms of behaviour of entrepreneurs, in particular those of major market forces. By removing barriers to market access or distribution channels, new entrepreneurs or less marketable entrepreneurs are expected to have a level playing field and this also has a favourable impact on employment policy and on general good society. Based on this report, it can be concluded that the agency has made great progress and the club of representatives will support its adoption.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75512	Thank you. For the HNS club, respected representative Jaksa Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75513	Mr. President, Mrs. Spevec, colleagues and colleagues. I will immediately say, we have no objections to the report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency because when you look at this report, you actually see what the Agency is dealing with and what it has been dealing with for the last 3 years. I don't know, you're doing support reports and I don't know if you ever existed before? ... Yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So if it is since '97, it is still new not to say a adult child living in very difficult conditions in the territory of the Republic of Croatia who must actually fight in some way for rules dictated by the European Union and the situation that we have at home. The way we are. When I remember a few years ago when these distribution chains entered Croatia commercially and the public reaction then, it was said, you will destroy all these small merchants, people will be out of work. But what happened? It happened that these trade chains entered Croatia, that retail prices fell. I speak only in a positive effect, retail prices have fallen safely for... %, small merchants are destroyed, true. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there was something positive and negative and something that happened that I consider very bad but not only in this area but in the area if you want a large part of the economy in Croatia, a farming relationship with workers. Today you have chains that pay people three to four thousand kunas and you have rich ones who pay between two and two and a half thousand kuna. The relationship he has with these people is almost agricultural. I know it's not the subject of this agency's work, but I had to tell because the topic of competition is on the market. So that competition brings some good and some bad things. On the other hand, we have the condition in Croatia that we have. In the field of municipal services, in the field of energy, in the area if you want it only in the corners of the telephone, there is some competition in the bandages. We have monopolies. The question is, I'm asking a personal question, is it better to have monopolies in some parts and segments of social or is it better to have competition? I don't know the answer to that because if you get to the competition then you'll have what the Hungarians and the Czechs have today, say in communal services. As I heard a comment that the mayor of Budapest said so what do I know more about the price of water and draining. Ask in Brussels. It's the same question as what's better you know. And these are some open questions to me about this subject. Otherwise, I'm asked another question, Mrs. Spevec. I want to know how many people are employed in the agency and the council. From this scheme, I saw the scheme but I didn't see how many people were employed. And how much of that should be employed in this agency on screening recommendations. That would be interesting to see, hear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75514	Thank you. Honorable representative of Jure Bitunac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75515	Thank you. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Madam President of the Council! We have before us a document that provides a picture of the agency's work in the past and, in addition to the information we receive here, I believe that, as Parliament's representatives, we also have a new understanding of the market, when it comes to the competition and what awaits us by joining the European Union. So I think that the work of this agency should also be seen in the light of Croatia's proximity to the European Union, on the one hand and the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. We know the Agency's jurisdiction is determined by two laws, the Competition Protection Act and the State Aid Act. However, one question that is raised here is for each of us individually in the parliamentary benches, parliamentary representatives if we are for the market economy, if we are for the free market then we must also find a framework for all economic operators, Croatian businessmen to have a chance, the monopoly is no longer available and the challenges of the globalised market should be answered. Earlier discussions, so here is Mr. Marasovic when he mentioned some of his market-related skeptics may come from some of our older habits, old concepts, but the time is, we live in the free market time and say that in the first place the role of this agency is as I see it and as it is drawn is that it gives the same chance for everyone, that it should satisfy the monopoly position of any economic operator on the market. And in other words, I see that her role in the first row is to give chances to those who need to come to the market and not to have it reserved for certain multinational companies and even national companies, but that even small businessmen, small economic operators have their chance. In this regard, I believe that the agency has done one part of the work in terms of education in the first place, and the things that stand as a limiting factor is a matter of legal regulation, which is also what Mr. Pukleš's chairman was talking about. And there are certain dilemmas. What I'm interested in is the area, since I've worked for many years in the municipal sector, is the question of monopoly. The issue means the ruling position of certain companies, certain companies either when it comes to Voo supply, when it comes to the disposal, distribution of electricity, etc. And there may be certain dilemmas there, so they can agree with Mr. Marasovic whether it is better for everything to be the subject of a competition, or sometimes it is better that certain services have a monopoly position, in other words, to be controlled by units of local self-government, county or state. Well, here's a good example for one of the abuses of such a position that is listed here is a company of commerce, and that is the municipal company of Ponykve d.o.o. from Krk when it comes to water distribution, where for higher consumption, higher amounts of water are given lower prices, and that is one quantitative rebate as I would say. And I think the agency's intervention was fantastic because it disables the position of certain economic operators on the market, given that competition can't be or has it. Even if such a company comes into private hands again, the company will not have competition again. And that's where I see the big role of the agency. And what Mr. Marasovic mentioned to Budapest and the privatisation of the water supply. However, what we had in our first reading of the development strategy, the water management strategy and the water sector, which should soon come to a second reading, is precisely that in this draft and I think that this will be the final proposal is to preserve the majority package by local self-government units when it comes to water supply, when it comes to disposal. In other words, the control package on such companies or on water distribution when it comes to the municipal sector will have units of local self-government. As far as the concentration of entrepreneurs is concerned, it is inevitable and I believe that our companies at Croatia level have made significant shifts in terms of frameworks, regulations, frameworks of the agency, so that both national chain, Konzum and other chains are heading towards responding to the challenges facing Croatia, in front of the Croatian market, to Croatian economic operators, given Croatia's entry into the European Union and Croatia's openness as a free country in terms of competition. Therefore, each of us can be sentimentalally sorry if a small economic operator will not survive or cannot survive on the market but the challenge of the market is what it is and I believe that a good one campaign through both the agency and through the competent ministries of the Croatian economy can qualify for competition. In this direction and the support of the Croatian Government or the support of the Croatian state when it comes to regional support of local self-government units, and when it comes to horizontal support, it is also going towards strengthening the Croatian economy, and I believe that agencies, as some of my colleagues have understood, are not any limiting factor, but rather that one entity is important in the overall development, one factor that is relevant in the overall development of the Croatian economy. For the time being, I must repeat again, for now he is still at the level of my free assessment of education but I hope that the agency and the competent ministries and Croatian businessmen will find a model for moving forward and how to meet the challenges facing Croatia in free competition when it comes to the European and world market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75516	Thank you. The first replica of the respected representative, Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75517	Well, all I'd like to do is replicate my colleagues to Bitunjt as far as the Ponikvi from Krka is concerned, right? So this is about one special activity. It is about the distribution of water where the Poniks were meant to ensure the possibility of using urban water in high-speed transport. Unfortunately, the situation is such in tourist resorts to double, triple, I don't know the ten-storey amount of water delivered in peak traffic, so at the moment the most tourists live there. In order to do that, you have to have infrastructure. But that infrastructure has its own cost when the minimum amount of water is delivered. So she also has her own fixed cost, has her depreciation and so on and so on. And I disagreed with the Agency's decision to protect the competition in a particular case because, for example, you have another monopolies called HEP. That's where you're even buying the canal to get to you, isn't it? Because you say, "Okay, I want the power." Then they ask you how much electricity you want? So you have to say in advance that you're going to have, say, 10 kilowatts of top-of-the-line, top-of-the-line traffic. Pay 10 kilowatts times 1,70, 1790 kuna and you have an account compared to HEP providing you with capacity. It's not like that with water, because you can charge a 5-and-a-half kuna connection for water and then pay it one way or the other. So it's not the same situation, for example, in a local monopoly, monopolies versus national, national monopolies. And here you need to see how to regulate that the Ponyks can function even in a period where they don't have that consumption as they have in high-speed traffic because they have made sure that these people who come there over the summer can have water.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75518	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75519	What I, my colleague Mršić, read in this solution is the following: that for bigger consumers the price is lower, for smaller consumers it is higher. And I think that according to what's been read and if that fits the truth, then the Agency, I absolutely support the Agency's position and I believe that the Agency has issued a solution. This is the word you're talking about as mayor, and I've been in Sinj, and I've worked for a few years, for seven years I've been the director of the municipal society. I think community society has the opportunity, the legal framework to be some seasonal prices. But it's something else. But it can't be allowed for big consumers from either the tourism sector, either from production to have a lower household price. The price must be unique. Actually, two are prices. ... No, no. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Household prices must, no matter how much, whether one household spent 1 meter of cubic spatial water or used 50 or spent 50 must be the same price, the same price. And that, that must be the rule for everything. So throughout Croatia. And I think the intervention... I mean, don't bother. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I think the Agency's intervention was, that the Agency's intervention was necessary here but it will also be needed in the future for companies that have a monopoly whether they are owned by state, local self-government units or privately owned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75520	Second replica, Honored Representative Miroslav Korenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75521	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my colleague can't agree with you. I'll give you the same few examples. For example, in Varazdinska and in northwestern counties, you have lots of mountains, or terminals and vineyards where the cottages are and where also often the installations come for water, electricity and gas. You can't tell me that whoever spends one, two, or three cc's of water annually the whole installation comes in there. That it should be the same price as the one in town because it's all about one city municipality. You can't just be the same price because neither consumption nor maintenance installations are the same. I'm sorry that when she looked into it and this case, the Agency didn't take care of it. Let's talk about gas as energy, it's the same thing. The one who occasionally spends, how will it be worth it? It turns out that Miroslav Korenik, who has no vineyards and who doesn't have a cottage, pays through the maintenance of those rich people or those rich people, under quotes, who have vineyards and occasionally spend something. Shouldn't everyone pay equally or on equal terms and maintenance and energy consumption? Because let's not forget, and the water is part of the energy because you're using energy to bring it to the hill. The other thing is we have in hilly areas and Varazdin County people or persons, households that live the most normal on the banks and people who have cottages, and you can't tell me that there has to be an equal price of water for that weekender and for the one who lives normally and who needs to, and in particular, stimulates him to live on those banks where the population dies? And on one side of HEP, we will allow us to charge something, and the Agency does not lead or glare about it, or it does not lead to enough attention because we are all paying for the cobwebs and the top load. Why don't we do it for all the other types of energy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75522	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75523	My colleague, Korenik, you represent an idea that is simply impossible. Which is inconclusive, inconclusive. Here's what you represent. You said, by chance, I'd get this out of your mouth, the speech from your replica. The consumer who is 100 meters away from the water supply and who accepts water is one household should have the price of two units, two kunas. And the one that's 50 kilometers away and it's about the same system should have a price of 5 kuna. Just like this, it would be, that would be what, it would be worse what you said and you're simply advocating an idea that should be just, most just, but it's de facto inexecutable, inexplicable and impossible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75524	Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75525	Mr. President, the esteemed Mrs. Sagittarius's report has been made very high-quality, and my predecessors, I think they've taken a pretty good look at this report. And now maybe we should just say a few more words. We see that the Agency is getting more and more common in the media, which is good. But in a positive way. So the Agency is working and the Agency's work is really visible and the public has taken it very well. We are aware, in fact, that the Agency and the last defense against all of this is stated, permission, concentration, entrepreneurs, abuse of the position of entrepreneurs, limiting... the agreement, preventing market access to competitors and the like. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'd like to say a few words, since here's a colleague, Marasovic, a little out of line, talking about competition. Is competition good or competition not good? The fact is that we are a country that has suffered quite a lot, and in wartime we are really sensitive to competition. On the other hand, let us remember that all of Croatia was shopping, really going shopping everywhere and everywhere from Hungarian villages to Austrian villages, that there were huge columns on the borders and that there were no more. Therefore, competition is welcome there. Let us remember that the Croatian economy, that the competition and beat the Croatian economy that was on its knees in '88. A year. It may have failed itself, but the competition completely destroyed it. I can give you as many examples as you want. TOP Kerestinec is one of the best examples that he worked without competition around Zagreb and the building of television, and the building of the headship. Whatever it was supposed to be, there were no competitors, no contests. The job was obtained in another way. At the moment of the competition, the company left very quickly. He clearly disappeared clearing and everything. In a positive sense, one more example. '93. For example, a self-boring utility company didn't want to do garbage transportation with us. She flew in and wouldn't believe the firm from Graz who drove the trash to the self-borrowing dump at the time, which had a significant impact on the restructuring of the company itself, the utility company and in the next concession competition, it was this self-boring company. So that's where the competition regained some awareness and made a lot of it really good. There's something else I need. Here, just one more sentence to cry out, here's Mrs. Spevec on punishments, because the fact can't be the agency just, it's good to teach, it's good to participate, it's good to inform. But for that alone, you'll see that the effects will be far less. According to this, let's all join together. It's very necessary to regulate the punishment and the great punishments in fact to prevent all these abuses, so I think the situation will be far better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75526	Thank you. Replica. Honorable representative Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75527	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Markovanovic asked a good question, or one thesis, and focused on the call of the president of the Agency for the Protection of Competition in terms of punishment, i.e. the implementation of decisions and solutions of the agency. In my presentation, Mr Markovanovic said that it might be more effective if the Agency for the Protection of Competition had greater powers, but we can only do so by amending and supplementing the law or by some under the law so that the decisions and decisions of the Agency must be carried out, and in the jurisdiction of the Trade Court to control the legality of these solutions and decisions of the Agency in order to be placed on a timely and correct basis against the monopoly.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75528	Reply to the replica, respected representative Krunoslav Markovinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75529	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I think as usual, my colleague Walter and I agree on a lot of opinions. I also support that idea. I think the Agency's gonna make it all right together. 'Cause I'm just doing it, I think it's important in all of this, and we all have to back it up. There's just so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75530	Vice-President of the House, Honorable Representative Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75531	Mr. President, the president of the Competition Protection Council let me start by saying that I will personally vote in favour of this report and that I will support it. I must say that it is very quality not only in principle, but also in particular when taking “caz” cases which are shown and which in themselves give a lot of insight and opportunity. I particularly support here that the Agency has given a presentation and its legislative practical work on the adoption of two regulations, but has also opened a whole series of new questions and let me not talk so much about what is good because it is in itself understood, but let me point to a few of the things that you point out, or which can be studied between the lines, as possible problems that are ahead of us. The first problem is the issue of conduct or protection of legality in the case of decisions taken by the Agency and the implementation of those decisions, on the one hand, and on the other, the possible implementation of sanctions imposed. Obviously, the agency here quite rightly throws a ball if I may put it in sports language in the yard of the legislative authority. Here is the question where the legislative authority must settle these issues, and it is quite clear if, for example, the supervision of the legality of the court remains with the Administrative Court then it must be requested that the court resolves this with full jurisdiction. It cannot be constantly balled to return to its original body for re-treatment because this simply goes on forever. Secondly, the issue is, in fact, to achieve unity, object or dispute, and to open up the possibility of discussing how to actually open up the possibility of both commercial courts from the one hand and, on the other hand, to protect legality through the Administrative Court at the same time. I think it's a question that's very complex and serious and probably that the Agency has one of the solutions. It can offer experiences from other countries, but a concrete solution must be defined by the legislative authority along with the executive authority. She'd offer it. Since he's gone, she's actually pointing to the problem and we have to deal with it, we need to seriously discuss it. The second question I would like to raise in particular is the issue of the Agency's cooperation with other bodies that should also deal with the fight against monopolies or anti-monopolis behaviour, and above all thinks about those dealing with finance issues, i.e. banking and telecommunications. It is impossible and we are fully aware that in this segment we have a lot of monopoly that oligopolitan behaviour in which the Agency cannot do anything alone and in this respect should also, in fact, create a legal basis at the legislative level not only for cooperation between I do not know the Agency for Telecommunications, the Agency for the Protection of the Market... but to prescribe where, in border areas affecting the monopoly position, and in particular because of the monopoly position on the inequality of other entities on the market, a joint meeting must be taken, together for the table of these bodies, and to establish actual questions and report not only to the Assembly, but also to take appropriate measures to prevent it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The third question that needs to be discussed seriously is, in some ways, the implementation of the Constitution itself, not just the law. The issue of where the state should promote economic progress and the social well-being of citizens, should take care of the economic development of all its regions on the one hand and on the other hand where the rights acquired by investment should not be reduced. Unfortunately, this segment is not only about relations with monopolies and oligomonopolies, but also about the state and its entities. I have to say that we have some things that, by nature, things cannot be interpreted differently, but in that unfortunately often the state will always find a valid reason, but it is not in accordance with the law actually allowing to reduce investment, the rights acquired by investing on the one hand, or on the other hand, that individual entities are not brought into an unfair position. For example, if you take an input and output into some of these entities then you will see that in the entry sequence you often have actually unfair relationships that reduce burdens to actually achieve an appropriate position in competition, i.e. unfair competition. Like what? Take one factory, I don't know, for the processing of dried fruit, or for the production of dried fruit and vegetables in Vrpolje, the state simply as the biggest owner, the state as the one that should solve this problem, as the owner, etc. Therefore, as the holder of the ownership and legal powers of the civil and legal entity and of the commercial subjectivity, not as the holder of the authority, it simply allows itself not to pay people contributions to pension and health insurance and it has been going on for months. The question arises in which position is she in relation to those who have to? Well, of course it's a privileged position. We also have a whole series of public companies that can still work on these things and in this segment we actually need to open up a new step. Not only from the aspect of these labour-based rights, but also those of labour rights when in fact reduced salaries or unworthy earnings of workers are trying to achieve position on the market. And this is a new dimension that should actually achieve a higher level of action by our Competition Protection Agency. And it's actually a new step where she needs to learn about the causes of a certain position and behavior that she might actually act. Of course, it's not possible with this capacity, with no spatial, no personnel, no organisational, as the agencies now have. In this respect, the Agency warns that, in fact, professional teaming and staff teaming requires the necessary strengthening of the Agency's professional capacities. What we need to understand, if the Agency really wants to act on preventing a monopoly and an oligopoly position, then it has to have a completely different position. And, of course, not only the teamwork but the continuous education for both the people in the Agency and the institutions working together with the Agency to implement its decisions, i.e. the views and, of course, the regulations. In that segment, the Agency rightly notes in this report that education should include judicial and state-owned administrative bodies, above all, and then, of course, public authorities and public rights holders, which in organisations and associations. Fourthly, a very important issue is being raised that has not been resolved systematically. This is the relationship on the market and the position on the public and municipal business market with us. We must definitely clarify the extent to which we are prepared to achieve, in fact, and prescribe, in the transitional period, the position of our municipal and public enterprises, which will have a stable form of monopoly behaviour, or even better, which will be able to behave in accordance with the rules of unfair competition, because the unit of local or regional self-government behind them will cover their losses and certain things, but because of the social impact we need and must do in relation to the collective and consumer capacity of today's population, our population. And the need on the one hand to keep at the same time a minimum standard that would hold our people and our country's connection to the countries of Central Europe and, of course, Western Europe. The fact is that in this segment we must actually legislatively resolve this issue and we must ask it properly. We must not often call on a liberal concept over and over again. In the liberal concept of Western Europe there are very many national economies on the one hand, and so that globalisation has its own national dimension as well. On the other hand, it is very precise to use both international conventions and, of course, the internal legal denunciation, which restricts both certain entrepreneurial and ownership freedoms, but always provides an adequate market fee to prevent, in fact, monopoly behaviour, or rather, if it is established to pay the price, rather than a competitive entity in market relations. Of course, here, in particular, it is necessary to clarify the issue which must be public and transparent when the State and its entities directly or indirectly assist a particular entity. But this must be precisely prescribed by law and must be in accordance with the Constitution and international documents. It's not easy. In fact, our negotiating teams should be empowered in this segment to be able to resolve this issue in line with the talks with Europe and, of course, it must be related to the objectives that are to be achieved. I'm warning you for a simple reason. This practice that we have, it cannot survive. It was actually created by the force of momentum, by the force of a steady real state on the market, and not by the force of what should be regulated rules of behaviour on market relations that would actually allow our agency to work in quality. And in that respect, I support the adoption of this report. But at the same time, I am actually proposing to my colleagues that we consider opportunities to ensure better rights, powers and responsibilities by means of legislation. Secondly, to provide financial resources for the work of the Agency to enable experts,... Education. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And third to ensure quality cooperation with other institutions that must ensure the protection of competition against monopoly or oligopol in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75532	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Vlater Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75533	Thank you, Mr. President. So here I agree with Mr. Arlovic, who points out that disputes with administrative courts are returning to the Agency again. However, disputes with administrative courts that not only go back to the Agency, but in most cases, as far as I know, they go into obsolescence. Well, that's why, I say once again, I think it would be good and effective for the Competition Protection Agency to give greater powers by amending and supplementing the law, with decisions and solutions of the Agency being implemented and in the jurisdiction of the Trade Court. What's the trade court for? Because the trade court is in charge of companies and is best informed of the problem in these companies. Therefore, in the jurisdiction of the Trader, it is within the jurisdiction of the Trade Court to control the legality of those solutions and decisions of the Agency in order to be placed against the monopoly in due time and correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75534	Replication response, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75535	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. We can't give those powers to the Agency that would bring her in, turn her into a judicial body. The Agency may and should conduct administrative proceedings. The Agency must be able to warn and prescribe certain things. Like we can't give the Trade Court legal control. The trade court must get in these processes the possibility of actually acting on, when it comes to unfair competition, when it comes to monopoly etc., and what we must get we must approve courts dealing with protection, the legality of acts, etc., the administrative court, that with full jurisdiction, they must not refuse, enter the measure of the dispute, they must resolve it. We must definitely review in this segment the position of the Administrative Court in the Republic of Croatia and we will have to introduce probably... There is probably no need for this to be not knowing how much administrative court, but there should be talks about that the Administrative Court has a first degree probably in Osijek, Split, Rijeka, Varazdin and Zagreb and of course at the level of the state which will be a second-degree court which will have to definitely address these issues of the supervision of the legality and of course the legality of the administrative acts they have resolved in that segment. [[You don't understand.]] As long as we don't get in a position for the state to retire significantly from economic relations where there's nothing to do. I am therefore in one segment to strengthen the position of a commercial court in relation to the extent of dispute settlement when it comes to relations in, business relations between commercial entities on the market, but jurisdiction and legality must be further in the administrative court and in this respect should actually prevent this pink-punk that is happening, where the administrative court actually finds that something is not possible, but then returns to the first stage of resolution, will not measurely resolve it. On the one hand, not only won’t, but often there are a number of justifiable reasons that make it impossible for him to do so because of the lack of personnel, space, and everything else. So we need this acid apple that's sour, but we need to get rid of it. Why is she so sour? Because, on the one hand, the international community is asking us to reduce the number of courts, and on the other hand, we will have to open up competences and extend by number, the number of judicial institutions that would actually need to be regulated in order to protect legality and to ensure the rule of law and to establish a legal order, especially in market relations. Thank you very much for your rep, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75536	Thank you. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75537	Dear President, honourable representatives of the Agency, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I will first and foremost support this Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency and in any case support the work of the Competition Protection Agency because I have the impression that the Agency’s impact on the market has become increasingly relevant year by year and that it works among other things with two basics. One thing is that it really solves a growing number of cases where it is possible to disrupt competition in the Republic of Croatia, and the other one seems to me that a little has begun to act preventively, so that some of them do not even dare to engage in certain business activities, i.e. to go in some way in business because they are afraid that they might fall under the shears of the Competition Protection Agency. This is extremely important because unfortunately, in Croatia, the competition is still far from some regulated market because ultimately it is too short a period from when we had an absolute monopoly, and when we had an absolute monopoly and no market, so we have to get the market, and now we just need to get to the point where we have business morality and ethics that most employers on the market are acting morally, honestly and honestly towards their competitors, towards consumers, towards the state and local self-government, without using all the opportunities left to them both in unsettled laws and in insufficient control by inspectors or some other inspection services in order to make a profit or break for themselves personally, or for companies that are at the helm. In the future, there will likely be fewer distortions of competition, but those in their structure and weight and financial aspect will be greater and more difficult and will have much greater impact on the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. on competitors, because they will have a negative impact on the development, growth and business of their competitors. But let me talk through these principles about two very specific cases. One is happening at this very time, which is that something that was the subject of the agency is, in the basic decision-making process, even in the appeal procedure, so now it will have its own repercussion that will negatively affect the market, and especially on employment in the Republic of Croatia, and then, unfortunately, in my city. So in 2000, Podravka decided to sell one part of her business, which is yeast production. At the time, she had two offers on the table, one French bidder and one Canadian bidder, and at that moment, on the market of the Republic of Croatia, the French bidder already had its production capacities and I think more than 50% of the market in the Republic of Croatia. At the first moment "Podravka" decided to sell this to a Canadian bidder who did not have a 1% at that time, so it did not work at all on the market of the Republic of Croatia, but something happened at the last moment and yet it was decided to sell it to the French bidder, which is why the French bidder had both production capacities, because in the Republic of Croatia there are two yeast production factories, and at that point the French bidder or the French owner had both production capacities, so he had a concentration of 100% production and I don't know 98% of the market, because there was probably a German imported across the border in Croatia. Of course, the Canadian bidder complained about it and addressed the competition agency. In the first case, the agency said that it was too much concentration and that the competition had been disrupted and it was said that it was necessary to terminate the sale contract to the French bidder but that those who had contracted and, unfortunately, in the second round, it was said that it was not the concentration, so that the contract could remain in force and that one bidder had 100% production capacity in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and one factory was far more capacitated than the needs of the Republic of Croatia for all yeasts. And that would be all okay. that this is not what is happening these days, which is that this French bidder, i.e. now the French owner, sees that there is no need to have two factories in the Republic of Croatia decided to close one, and that closes this particular factory in Koprivnica, where 68 workers will lose their jobs. What's even bigger is that it's happening at the moment when it's before the opening of a wastewater treatment plant and when it should be that plant that's otherwise a huge contaminant, because the yeast factory is a dirty industry that works very high water with a very high load, so they're now retreating, which means they used resources while they could tell us what in Podravina to do, to rap our resources. So while they could exhaust the environment, they worked until then. Now that we should finally start paying fairly for your negative environmental impact, now they're retreating, leaving 68 workers on the road. And if it was really a concentration talking about how they don't want to sell the business, then they don't want to sell the yeast factory as a yeast factory, they want to sell the property. So, they don't want a competitor to come and buy that yeast factory now. And on this example, we see, therefore, how much negative influence it can have if we cannot regulate the competition in the Republic of Croatia. I personally believe that in the first step, the Agency did exactly what was right. I think that there have been very great pressures to change that decision, it has been changed and it is obvious that the decision has been changed to harm and workers, to the detriment of the market, to the harm of the local community and to the harm of the environment, since the French owner is withdrawing without any obligation to resuscitate what he has done in the past five years. What is worrying is that he came to inform everyone yesterday that since 1.12. he will not simply work in Croatia. It remains on the Croatian market because it remains another factory that is completely sufficient not only for Croatia but for the regional market. Here we can also talk about that the urge was to buy this production capacity to prevent competition because at that moment "Podravka" was its competitor on the market. And secondly, to prevent the competitor from coming and taking over that capacity. And so today we have a monopoly on the market of the Republic of Croatia for the production and sale of yeast because this yeast factory has over 99% of the market. And another thing I'd like to talk about, and I think it's a big task of the Agency in the future, is the violence committed by trade chains and violence against producers. Therefore, at this point, the market in the market manages the market rather than manage the trade chains which at some point can significantly affect the performance of large producers, especially domestic ones, because on the sides they cannot do so because they have to pay upfront or have guarantees, but with the domestics they can put them in very inadequate places on their shelves, to blackmail them with prices, with rebates, with payment deadlines and with something else. And I think that there is an inadmissible concentration already on the Croatian market, and what the Agency can't solve but what the Parliament should solve, it's to prescribe that, as usual throughout the world, one who owns shops cannot have brands. He may have something called "private label", therefore, a private brand, but that means then that the mark is exclusively sold in that trade chain. Today, however, we have a situation on the Croatian market that chains also have their brands, so branded goods, have and then not only sell it in their chains but sell it to other chains and thus have a significant impact on the imbalance on the market and on the unfair position of other producers. I think that's something that needs to be resolved systematically because we're going to get traders to own our production, and then profit will only really be in the store, and in the production of em there won't be any profits, so there's probably not going to be any production either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75538	Thank you. Five minutes of debate. HSP representative club, respected representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75539	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored gentlemen of the Competition Protection Agency. This report shows the Agency's efforts to address all the problems facing a free competition in Croatia. Of course, there is a big question on the one hand how capable the Agency is of this in view of the resources and people available, but also, there is an even greater question which is indeed the legal powers of the Agency to deal with all cases of capital or other disturbances, a completely free competition. In our court, the most valuable part of this report is this particular analysis with key characteristics of all concentrations of entrepreneurs that the Agency analysed last year. Whether it's about achieving capital concentration by taking over a bankruptcy company, but that's why it has an extremely large market like Europe Press Holding did when it bought Free Dalmatia which was in a very difficult situation. Whether it's about instead of "greefield" investment actually trying to take over Croatian companies and thus master Croatian markets. Whether it was the concentrations that were going to connect the agricultural industry, the food industry with wholesale and retail sales or horizontal concentrations. So, by joining the competitions. One of the biggest paradoxes of competition is that those who advocate a free market are exactly the same as those who prefer to eliminate the free market at the time when they achieve a suitable capital concentration for them. The paradox of the competition is that it is free as long as the key player in the market does not master the whole market and that is what the Croatian Parliament should think about here. And based on all these indicators in the Report, try to complete the Law so that he can respond as best as possible to all of the following situations that are mentioned here. Unfortunately, I have three more cases that have not been identified by the Agency. All three are also a case of telecommunications. One situation is the takeover of Iskon by HT. At that time, Iskon had a concession for "Wajmax" had a fixed telephony concession and was simply taken over by HT and there was actually a disturbance in the telecommunications market. The second is the situation of the VIP's "homebox" where the VIP as an operator with significant market power in the mobile market, with a concession that it has issued for fixed telephony, enters the fixed telephony market. And the third situation with HT is a completely unwarranted effort to control the telecommunications channels uniquely. In these three cases, the Agency has had to react in our court, unfortunately the Agency has not responded, which is the way to the thesis that others are competent to do so, and which is the way to get out of the legal provisions that it was actually like Iskon's about too little, or too little capital that was attached to a larger player. So this all shows that there are shortcomings in this Law that should be done, but what is crucial and what we really doubt is whether there really is a desire in the Croatian Government and the Agency to remove the lack of law, and for these reasons we will be abstention in voting on this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75540	Thank you. Five minutes of debate. IDS representative club, respected representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75541	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Mrs. Spevec. Here we have heard the club IDS will support this report. I must say, it is certainly commendable to discuss the 2005 report in 2006, not as at the beginning of the year when we had a report for 2004. There's progress, and I hope next year is even sooner. Although the Agency was formed in '97. The year has not yet made a full contribution to the country's overall economic development. The legal framework needed to best protect the proposal for new solutions, experiences of the European Union and other countries, the introduction of high standards certainly did not reach the level needed by the Croatian economy. As the Agency states as its own task and actively participate and establish forms of professional cooperation with other bodies in the Republic of Croatia that also carry out the relevant scope of competition protection activities in certain economic sectors and also propose forms of joint work contributing to the overall level of implementation of competition in the Republic of Croatia and meeting the criteria for membership in the European Union. But I certainly must say, it's unfortunate that in 2006, we don't have any basic settings that the Agency should be working on. What's missing? There is certainly no methodology for calculating the level of monopolisation of the market. Developed economies in order to protect their national economies and consumers have specific measures that account for the degree of market monopolisation, and this is particularly important in the integration of several businesses. Mrs. Spevec must know that because in the world, such measures are known. One of these is the Herfindal index, i.e. the H-index, and the concentration coefficients for four or eight of the largest companies in the sector are used. We don't have such measures to apply, so all these grades remain quite subjective or political, not expert evaluation, so we have these discussions about monopolies regarding water economy, in energy. There have been some dilemmas here whether it is better to be on market grounds or monopoly, however, it is certain that we are in favour of the competition match, but it is very difficult and should certainly be kept in this human account market game and some limits should be established, not that it happens to be profit-based, and employees are treated as slaves. The same question arises how to punish such people and how much do they allow them to harass their employees? Someone may say it is not the Agency's issue, but certainly the Agency is not isolated in society, but should cooperate with other institutions on this issue, and also be an active participant in proposing legal solutions in order to develop the economy properly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75542	Thank you. Final review, Council President Olga Spevec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75543	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's to not spreading the debate I'm just going to answer the very specific questions that were addressed to me and give me one proposal. So, as far as Mr Marasovic's questions were concerned, there were 37 employees at the Agency on 31.12.2005, including 5 members of the Council. Today we're 44. Optimum would be somewhere around 60, up to 64, 5. The average age in the Agency is about 33 years of high professional staff, all lawyers with a judicial exam, one 6 masters of science making economics legal. So the biggest problem of the Agency is not its number but a huge outflow of these very educated, educated people who actually find a very easy job in the private sector and that's why our education has to be constantly because it's always, it's big, it's a huge fluctuation of employees. As for the other debates, I wouldn't want to spread at all. Of course, our proposal, the Agency is a body established by the Croatian Parliament, we also have a decision on the establishment of the Agency, is responsible for its work to the Croatian Assembly and I somehow call for certain issues to be very interesting, the issue of municipal activities, the question of the relationship between sectoral regulators and the competence of the Agency, which was particularly apostrophe of the respected representative Tadic, the control of the legality of work and the system of punishment that Mr. Poropat and Mr. Arlovic stressed. So, the Agency is prepared at any time whether, in the context of certain committees, any respected representatives propose to actually participate in the work on and to contribute their contribution to the development of competition in areas for which the law has jurisdiction, but also to the promotion in those areas where our competences do not touch, but in this desire to promote competition when it comes to liberalising certain sectors, we are therefore very willing to participate in this. As regards the latest discussion concerning whether the Agency applies the concentration calculation methodology. Of course we do. Our solutions are on the Agency's website and we take both HH and index and... We use the index as much as any agency in the world. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the application of the same methodologies as the members of the European Community are also represented in the Agency's work on which only the law itself is binding and not to speak the Stabilisation Association Agreement. So, I call on all of you who have shown an interest in the Agency's work here, in particular I have mentioned around these areas, the Agency is ready to participate in the work of the Parliament, so through the committee on all these issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75544	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Annual report on the work of the 2005 Competition Protection Agency. I am voting on the following conclusion: the Annual Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2005 is accepted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 84 for and 6 abstentions accepted the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75547	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The annual State aid report shall be drawn up by the Agency in accordance with Article 20. State aid laws. The report contains an analytical review of the state aid granted in 2005 and includes audited data for the previous two years. The analysis of the support in this report greatly respects the methodology of showing the European Commission's state support, which is Croatia's obligation in accordance with Article 70. Stabilisation and Association Agreements. The report shall contain data received from the Ministry of Finance and other state aid providers at national and local level and of course the Competition Protection Agency. Although the data delivery and reporting system of state aid has been significantly improved compared to the state in 2004 and 2005 still particularly when it comes to local self-government units, it has not fully recovered, so we will therefore consider conditional data for 2005 because we are likely to arrive at final data only in 2006. According to the Agency's report, the data that we collected in 2005 amounted to 6.5 billion kuna, which is about 13% higher than in the previous 2004 and 8% higher than in 2003. This is mainly the result of the growth of support for the transport sector and the agriculture and fisheries sector. In the observed year, state support per employee amounted to around 4000 585.6 kuna, slightly more than 12% in 2004. To be graphic, since the average net salary last year amounted to 4000 and 376 kuna according to this report, it turns out that each employee in Croatia actually gave one month of their net salary for state support. The share of state aid in Croatia's gross social product remained at the level last year, so last year 2004 is 2.8%. However, positive movements are noticeable if we analyse state aid without those granted to agriculture and fisheries which are not subject to the State aid Act, and if we exclude transport support for which specific rules apply most of the time. Without these support, therefore, support for agriculture and fishing and transport, the level of aid in 2005 was 2.7 billion kuna, less than in the previous year and significantly less than in 2003. Following this methodology, a continuous decline in the share of state aid in the gross social product was observed, so from 1.6% in 2003 to approximately 1.2% in 2005. According to the aid categories, it should be noted that in 2003 there was a significant increase in support for horizontal objectives. Investments in research and development, rehabilitation and restructuring, employment and improvement, environmental protection, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, etc., and mentioned support from around 1 billion kuna in 2003 reached 1.6 billion kuna in 2005 and their share continued to grow and reached around 25% in 2005 with 16.5% of total support in 2003. At the same time, more and more support is being provided for regional development and in the coming period, given the rules that allow very generous support to promote investment in developing regions should be expected to grow further and more intensively. There was a further reduction in sectoral support in the previous period and last year. These are support for individual sectors such as steel, shipbuilding, tourism. In this year, this does not apply to the transport and production of steel where support is increased. However, support and tourism and shipbuilding and their share in total support were reduced from 45% in 2003 to 37% in 2005. According to the instruments, the most support as well as in Europe is granted through direct subsidies. This is about 73% in 2005 and is noticeable in view of the provisions of the Law on the Encouragement of Investments in Free Zones, etc., the growth of tax reliefs as instruments of granting state aid. The State guarantees are a very complex form of State aid or aid, so that given the methodology of the calculation and the new approach to state guarantees, their share in the total aid is increasingly falling. Finally, despite the fact that in 2005, there was an increase in aid in the absolute amount, i.e. retaining their share in the gross social product at the level of the previous year, as a direct consequence of the growth of support for the transport and agriculture sector, the transport of support went to the financing of infrastructure, modernisation and technological recovery of this sector. As a whole, it can nevertheless be concluded that the positive trends in state aid developments continue. Therefore, this refers to the trend of absolute and relative reduction of support when excluding transport and agriculture and this further growth of support for horizontal objectives, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, training of employees, research and development, environmental protection and the like. However, it should continue to insist on defining the proactive and targeted support policy in terms of encouraging and favouring those aids which give greater impact and directly affect the creation of new added value. In the European Union, support for research and development has been recognised as such, regional support including support for small and medium-sized enterprises. It is important to mention that the start of membership negotiations in the European Union has further led to the need for further coordination of support and the shipbuilding sector, that support, in this context, will be harmonised once the Croatian shipbuilding restructuring programmes are adopted, is then expected to continue to receive support that will be more geared to development, innovation, new investment, technological recovery. Therefore, this report shows that the supervision or control of the aid so far in these three years, although this has been a very short period of time, and that state support providers are increasingly turning to horizontal support, which encourages the development of a larger number of businessmen, and in particular, I have pointed out several times, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship support for innovation, technological recovery and restructuring of entrepreneurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75548	Thank you. The committee's reporters? Chairman of the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction, Honored Representative Drago Pukleš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75549	Your Honor, Mr. President, the honorable representatives of the agency, the honourable MPs! The Committee for the Economy, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament at the 47th session held on 15 November 2006 discussed the Annual Report on State aid for 2005 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Competition Protection Council by the act of 27 September 2006. In the opening presentation of the proposing representatives, the report noted that the 2005 data as well as the revised data for 2003, 2004. When it comes to state aid for 2005 that amounted to €6.5 billion, it should be borne in mind that they include agriculture, fisheries and transport. The State aid law does not provide for the control of the agency in those activities, which is important to point out because state aid without those activities is becoming less and less and by the subsequent decline and their share in the gross social product. This report should serve as a guideline for state support to be as low and efficient as possible. After the debate, it was unanimously proposed to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion. The Annual Report of the Agency for the Protection of Competition in State Aid in 2005 is hereby adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75550	Thank you. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. For the HDZ Representatives Club, respected representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75551	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen! The Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club discussed the Annual Report on State aid submitted by the Competition Protection Agency and proposed that it be accepted. As stated in the material, this is the third annual State aid report and contains an analytical review of the approved support for 2005 and audited for 2004 and 2003. It is good that the data for 2003 and 2004 are audited because this enables data to be compiled but also respects the methodological settings used by the European Union to prepare its reports and compare with aid in the Member States of the European Union. On the other hand, this manner of reporting on State aid is consistent and stems from the commitments made under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. The annual report shows that the State and local support control system has not yet fully revived and that it requires a certain period of adaptation, education and user and support to the obligations imposed by this system. In addition, it is important to note that under the State aid Act, aid control does not apply to agriculture and fisheries and rail transport has a separate status in the legal property of the European Union. As a result, well-separated support in agriculture, fisheries and rail transport is well-separated in the presented indicators. Respecting previous remarks, it can generally be said that total state support increased by 13.2% in 2005 compared to 2004. At the same time, the share of total support in the gross domestic product from 2.78% In 2004 increased to 2.84% in 2005 or 2.4%. However, if agricultural and forestry and transport are singled out from the total support, then the share of the support in the 2005 gross domestic product was 1.19% and 1,32% in 2004. For the sake of comparison, the percentage in the EU countries was 0.44% in 2004. So we have almost three times as much support in the gross domestic product as in the Member States of the European Union. According to the State support categories, according to the State aid Regulation, they are shared in horizontal, sectoral and regional aids. Sector support participates in 2005 with 37.39%, horizontal with 24.46% and regional or local with 4.65%. Compared to 2003, when sectoral support amounted to almost 45% and only 16.4%, a significant shift was made in terms of the fact that horizontal support today relates to research and development, environmental protection, recovery and reconstruction and small and medium-sized enterprises and sectoral transport on shipbuilding and tourism. For the sake of comparison, the share of horizontal sectors in European Union countries is over 50%, which means that the trend of change is positive. The basic feature of support according to forms or instruments granted to increase the share of subsidies in the observed years from 65% in 2003 to 70.8% in 2004 and 73.15% in 2005. Tax breaks as a state support instrument increased the share from 1.9% in 2003 to 10.12% in 2005 while loans from 19.2% in 2003 fell to 6.8% in 2005 and state guarantees reduced the share from 10.36% to 7.6% in observed years. In the European Union in 2004, subsidies with 40.7 are 47.9%, 35.5% tax breaks, 10% guarantees and 5% credits. During 2004, the trend of abandoning the selective approach in the granting of state aid began and state resources shifted to those aids that bring greater benefits to the economy as a whole and which are in line with the State aid system in the countries of the European Union. Such a shift in the longer-term state support system will affect the competitiveness of the Croatian economy and create a precondition for the rapid development of entrepreneurship. The growth of horizontal state aid of 990 million kuna in 2003 over a billion and 380 million 2004 to a billion and 590 million in 2005 shows that, in addition to the changes already mentioned in the approach to supporting the awareness that economic development can only be ensured if the aid in the economy is implemented through as many entrepreneurs as possible and with long-term effects. In the structure of horizontal state support about 30% or nearly 500 million kuna, support for recovery and restructuring, which means that the economic recovery process is not yet complete and ongoing. The third place is to subsidise interest rates for loans approved by the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development with its development programmes. And they amount to 350 million kuna and account for 22% of total horizontal support. In view of a number of horizontal support programmes approved during 2005 and 2006, which relate to employment, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, research and development and environmental protection and energy savings, it is realistic to expect that in 2006, it will continue, that a positive trend will be shown in increasing the share of horizontal support. The final assessment is that as regards the share of state aid in gross domestic product, with its 1.19% in 2004 does not significantly deviate from the newly admitted Member States of the European Union. In the future, significant efforts will have to be made to reduce sectoral support in order to minimise competition rules and, on the other hand, to change the support structure in order to increase the efficiency and competitiveness of the Croatian economy and to enable balanced regional development. The Croatian Democratic Community's club supports the proposed report and can be a quality basis for creating future support policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75552	Thank you. For the club of MPs IDS esteemed representative Valter Poropat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75553	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable President of the Council for the Protection of Competitions with counterparts, colleagues and colleagues. The IDS Club will also support this report, the Annual Report of the Agency for the Protection of Competition on State Aid for 2005 not only because of a detailed analysis of the Agency’s work reports but also for real and concrete proposals for the possibility of improving the work of the Agency itself and the collection of data by local self-government units or regional self-government in relation to state support. I must point out here that, as far as I am aware, despite the Agency’s questions and haste, part of the county, cities and municipalities have not yet provided the Agency with reports on the general state aid programmes from their jurisdiction, as well as information on the support granted from 2002 to 2005, to which it is certain to work. The protection of competition is a constitutional category which provides all entrepreneurs with the same legal position on the market, and entrepreneurship and market freedom are the cornerstones of the economic structure of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, in politics and competition protection, there is control over state aid which also plays a role in bringing the country's influence to the minimum on the distribution of funds on the free market or on regular economic flows. In cases where state aid allows economically inefficient entrepreneurs to continue their business and when, at the regular course of events, they would not be able to happen that not only is it possible for other entrepreneurs who are economically ineffective to continue their business but are directly at risk of respect and international obligations taken by the Republic of Croatia by signing a Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Union. Therefore, state support must be in line with the Croatian rules on state aid and the acquis of the European Union. According to the report, most of the aid is intended for sectoral support and their share in the total state aid is falling. The adoption of the State aid Act, the State aid Regulation and other rules took the first step towards meeting the obligations while further important steps are to comply with the same rules. I therefore believe that the adjustment of the State aid system in the Republic of Croatia with the State aid system in the European Union is a good example of the Agency's assistance in facilitating the implementation of those aids. It should be pointed out here that, in addition to the objectives of harmonising the Croatian system and the procedure of granting state support to the establishment of transparency of state aid systems, which, of course, includes clear rules and criteria of approval and allocation either at national or local level. It is invaluable to create business conditions in the Republic of Croatia in which all entrepreneurs will have equal opportunities for success. The 2005 Annual Report shows that the total share of state aid in the gross social product of the Republic of Croatia in 2005 is almost equal to the share in 2004. In the case of indicators of the movement of State aid by categories, a continuation of positive trends in horizontal and regional state support has been observed. Certain oscillations of otherwise positive trends for 2004 are also noticeable in 2005 in the section relating to sectoral state aid due to a marked increase in the support granted to the transport sector. An explanation of the above-mentioned increase, the allocation of funds for this sector can be found in the preparation of specific transport sectors for the upcoming market liberalisation processes, as well as in the need to modernise and increase the technological equipment of this sector. We are looking at state support instruments to see the maximum representation of subsidies as a form of state aid as in the European Union. Tax exemptions and various reliefs show continued growth over the course of all three years and are moving towards the usual amounts in the European Union. Positive downward trend is shown by the granted state guarantees. Finally, Croatia must reduce support in the percentage share of the gross social product, but also deploy the planned support, not to mention in which branches. So, I repeat, the IDS Club will support this annual report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75554	Thank you. For the HNS Club, a respected representative of Jaksa Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75555	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The HNS Club will support this State aid report for 2005 because nothing else is left for us right now. This brief reference is to the fact that regardless of any nominal growth in support compared to 2005, 2004 it is a decline in GDP. This is seen from these tables not too important, but it is obvious that the decline should be talked about some positive trend if we look at what we have in European countries, and even those that have passed these ten new ones that have entered Europe because they have a much lower share of state support than GDP. This is visible from the table at the end of this review report, hence the review of state aid in the Member States of the European Union and Croatia for three years. When you look at only Malta has a much higher GDP percentage so in GDP than Croatia. I am not quite sure what is better, whether what Malta is doing or what other countries of the European Union are doing. For me, this table is a bit of a surprise to me because I could not believe that the countries that entered the European Union a while ago actually have a relatively low, or lower percentage of our share of support in GDP. It says here that it's a zero-seventy, and we were in the last year, so in 2005, we were about one nineteen, which is not so small a difference, and now I'm wondering why Malta has it. What are the experiences of Malta that she has at three ten, that she has such a high percentage of the stake in GDP. Is it because of the structure of its economy, is that an important reason is that they, as far as I know, live mostly of tourism, and we are relatively close to them, and all other countries have a relatively low percentage of that share. I have to admit, that's not exactly what that means and what it's supposed to be. I guess the trend should be to reduce support in a normal society should not be any support. As we are in transition, and besides these support, you have a situation where large funds are allocated from the state for the purposes of many activities in infrastructure, in transport and in everything else. That's the kind of question I get. As far as the detachment for these sectors is concerned, it is likely that the smallest allocations for these regional support and support at the local level, as far as I have managed to understand from this report, I am not sure that support at local level, at least I did not find it in this report, are the funds given from local support communities, so let's say the local traffic is whether it entered here in this report. The regional support that I think would be necessary, which he still knew about socialism if you remember undeveloped areas, seems to me, especially for the current state of development of the Republic of Croatia and various GDP budgets in certain areas of the Republic of Croatia compared to Zagreb and therefore not only support but all possible investment from the state budget would be necessary in terms of reducing this, these differences in GDP, and thus in the standard of people living in these areas. The particular problem is, I would say this Slavonia, which is much better known by those who live in Slavonia than I do. But I hear it from a lot of people. And it is likely that these Slavonia will continue with these measures taken and will have a negative result in this next budget. What do you end up saying about support? I'd like to know if it's better to support growth or not to grow. Trend is that they're falling slowly compared to GDP. And I'd love to know what this country's trend is in that sense. Can some branches work without support at all? Will we be able to support tomorrow's accession to the European Union for some branches, economic activities? It's the same question I'm being asked. What's it gonna be, then? What's going to happen to our farm that clearly here practically half the support? Not half but a good third of the support. These are questions that would be raised in this report. And I think that's what we need to talk about, not the report itself, because it's an honor report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75556	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75557	Well, here, I have to correct a wrong quote by a fellow who can actually completely reroute the support story. That quote says in normal society there shouldn't be any support. And what kind of normal society is that? So our society and all the society in the whole world is an insane society. Because while there's company there'll be support. Only in the utopian society will it not be so. Because support is given not only for the survival of the company, but for the promotion of exports, and in particular there will always be support for research. That's what the most developed societies give, that's what they give the most. I hope we get there someday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75558	Honorable representative of Jure Bitunac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75559	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, Madam President. I think this report is a good document. That we, as representatives and the Croatian public, are familiar with the support in 2005 that the state of Croatia has transferred to certain entities. Since the policy of this Croatian government is a balanced development throughout Croatia, I believe that the support they have given is also going in this direction, regardless of what we still have strong and sectoral support, but this is the problem of the Croatian economy, the problem of reconstruction, the restructuring of the economy. And I believe that, as a society, we are slowly entering a final phase when it comes to State intervention in respect of certain economic operators, except for those who will continue and who are both in Europe and in highly developed countries, the subject of incentives, i.e. support. What is certainly interesting for the agency when it comes to state aid is the question whether state aid violates competition, equality and whether any State aid can mean that it is in a more unfavourable position of another entity. And I think that's the original goal of the agency to examine that circumstance. Given the information we've seen in these two reports and the knowledge we've learned, there were no such cases. I can say that at least what I saw, I read there that the number of objects that covered it did not indicate the possibility of perhaps later these support was otherwise shaped. There weren't any interventions. I certainly welcome this trend of growth. And when it comes to support, I believe with horizontal support that there is a chance of the Croatian economy and that there is still a large space where the Croatian state will be able to intervene in terms of the even development of the entire Croatia from one. On the other hand, in the first place, intervene in one wide area when it comes to one beauty of different economic sectors in order to create greater competitiveness for the Croatian economy. Certainly, in Dalmatia, where I come from to take one step, that interventions of the state and intervention of the county are necessary in terms of encouraging the development of the economy in those areas. It has multiple meanings. Not only would it stop the trend of eviction from these areas, i.e. migration towards larger centres, Zagreb, Split and others, but that the standard in these areas would also be such that people can stay in those areas and can consume everything that can be consumed in social life, either in Split, or in Zagreb. I think the Croatian village is heading towards that urbanisation where the standard of living is growing day and day. I'll just say one more word, one thought about support in agriculture. Since these support are often the subjects of political bickering here in the Croatian Parliament, it is more important than the incentives themselves and their height to resolve certain infrastructures. I will mention irrigation, as a country intervention in the agricultural sector, in a way that improves quality, higher yields and that Croatian agricultural product is competitive on the European and world market. Because incentives can be specific or for fruit growing, olive growing, vegetables and something bigger. But I think the effects will be much and far stronger and stronger if the infrastructure needed by agricultural producers is resolved. With her both price and quality being competitive on the market. In any case, the growth of regional support, their trend in regional support growth, is going towards a balanced regional development and support to local self-government units, I believe, should be even stronger in the future, in order to evenly develop Croatia as a whole. This report means one good information for us representatives in the Croatian Parliament, for the Croatian public. This is a good piece of work, and I believe that given the problems of both the personnel structure and the technical equipment that are not enough, we have heard this from the rapporteur, I think that the future will play an important... said before, an important role in the reconstruction and development of the Croatian economy. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75560	Thank you. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75561	Mr. President, dear Mrs. Spevec. Well, here's what the report itself is about, and I think he's as fine as the previous report, but that report is the basis for negotiations between us and the European Union, and it's known that they are very intense in these chapters, and I think there's going to be a lot of problems. The question arises to what extent the Croatian support economy is jeopardising the European Union market, but we are going and vice versa, to what extent it is without support, Croatia, the European Union is destroying the Croatian market and this balance will normally be very difficult, difficult to make. In fact, some of our branches without support would really fall apart. We know it's shipbuilding, so here's the survival of metallurgy, agriculture and agriculture all stimulate, there's a lot of support, and we're still very big. It may not be much to talk about, but the fact is that in this whole story, Europe does not take what is fundamental, although we have survived for the second time today, I am talking about extremely difficult times, even though the economy was standing during the war, for years what survived before the 1990s, it was supposed to bring some life back to life. Fortunately, craftsmen, small craftsmen, entrepreneurs, and this compensation was quite good, and despite everything, we are still stronger and more quality than several countries that have entered the European Union in recent years, and of these two very few who are now, whoever was there could convince themselves of what is happening in Romania and Bulgaria, and unfortunately, they will politically enter very easily, while they will always ask for more of us than others. So here I am asking the lady who is at the head of this negotiating group to really bring out all our difficulties as much as possible if Europe has a desire and understanding, I think that some environment here could still be found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75562	Thank you. Dear representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75563	... esteemed representatives of the agency, respected colleagues and colleagues. [[You don't understand.]] I answered this debate just to remind myself of a previous debate when we talk about support, or some promises made by the Government, and which would strongly advocate involving a little more forwarder aggressively in this system of state support. We were discussing amendments to the Tax on Profits Act somewhere in the spring, and then all tax reliefs and the Tax on Profits were abolished, which involved investments in scientific research, i.e. the introduction of new technologies, i.e. making it easier for the economy to train employees, i.e. further education of employees. I agree with all those who have said today that it is very necessary to build a state of knowledge that we are currently working on a knowledge-based economy and that the introduction of new technologies, i.e. the introduction of new knowledge, was in terms of technological knowledge, in terms of the training of employees and for the progress of the economy. When we look at this report of state aid, with support, it is seen that these support from year to year is increasing and increasing. However, when they are compared to all other aid granted to the State, they are nevertheless in some and absolute amounts and in percent of those... the items of one of the smaller state aids. [[You don't understand.]] And it seems to me that a more significant step should be made here, the more I say as many tax reliefs that have been made in the tax support system, for these research, development, the introduction of new technologies and professional training of employees, and in that sense, I would like to see it for 2006 but also for the next year, also in the report itself and the financial resources themselves, or plans that work specifically for these horizontal support in the Agency itself, i.e. the Council itself. There's only that much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75564	Thank you. The Honorable Representative of the Shima Rifle.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75565	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Madam Director, colleagues and colleagues. Here's the report I'm using to make a few personal assessments and opinions. This is the first thing we can say for now, a full report, but just for the sake of the way information is collected at this point, I want to point out the problem I hold that should be resolved by the next report. Namely this report, as counterpart Marasovic also noted, does not contain any information that should be contained in nature, and it is also about support and those local aids, i.e. regional aids. The way information is collected, which I have commented on, seems to me also in the FINA report and some other reports should be arranged when it comes to total statistical collection, both here and here. I mean, at this point, there are, and that's why the agency is going to have trouble with the information, the reports. There's a problem because these reports, the information actually collects on several levels. First, this information is trying to collect from local administration and self-government units, and as a rule the county pulls a thicker end neither wrong nor due, because they should collect data for local administration and self-government units in their area which is quite difficult because they are in an equal position so the county is sometimes in an inferior position compared to other units. On the other hand, at the same time, we still have, I would say, the rudimental remains of the state statistical office located in the state offices of the county. They are almost not used to collect this kind of data, and on the third side of the FINA so far is trying to coordinate and collect some of the information. This is about the very introduction and the way to collect information so that this report will be more complete, that it will be more complete so that we can have insight into it. Secondly, the agency is a young institution and, of course, I would say in preparation for all of us together, as defined by its statute, in preparation for entry into the European Community. However, this time should also be used so that we would all learn together that the next week during the debate on the state budget, as well as in other discussions, we would also remember these specifics as well as the specifics of the SAA that we previously signed. This report, i.e. the Agency itself, aims to control and prepare for the entry into Europe, and on the other hand we have requirements on all forms of these support to increase the participation of these support in the national budget each year. That's how they'll probably be next week. I just want to say that the data on the growth index of 13 and something, 13.2% in this year is quite solid now the question is just the schedules within it. I personally express my satisfaction and think that in this time it is necessary to take advantage of this adjustment time until we are forced to preserve in horizontal support that part of the company still which they can and have market conditions, counting on having experienced different transformations, both technological and market and ownership and many others. Therefore, this period should be used precisely for these support in order to prepare that part of the company that can survive for the serious games that follow. These days we see problems with CEFTA, and we see the problems that both Bosnia and Serbia poses, and precisely because we are prepared for such matches because those other games should be used to exploit that part within sectoral support so that we can use that part, especially shipbuilding, but very interesting here when we look at regional and sectoral support, they may in some way as consequences of the earlier development of the former Yugoslavia as a whole in some way and regionally allocated. Well, when it comes to sectoral ones, they mostly refer to Slavonia as early as possible or to these eastern areas. On the other hand, if it is tourism or shipbuilding, it is usually located next to the Adriatic. Therefore, in these sectoral and other regional support, it is necessary to combine to evenly set this development. And that's exactly why this development needs to be coordinated. And I think that part should be used. And finally, in total, using this information as a preparation for next year, I support this report. I think that at this point it contains the basics that it is necessary for all of us to have insight into this state together, but also some knowledge that we could bring to the debates next week, to participate in the preparation and adoption of the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75566	Thank you. Five minutes of debate. HSP representative club, respected representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75567	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, gentlemen of the Agency. The HSP Club will support this Report, however, we would like to point out in this brief presentation the key problem behind this Report, which is Article 70. Stabilisation and Association Agreement. We warned of this in this same hall of the Croatian Parliament in 2001 when the Parliament ratified the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. In addition, Article 70, which obliged Croatia to enter the European Union, as soon as possible and within 4 years of the entry into force of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, agreed its support map with the European Commission's support map. This means, in practice, that the Agency for the Protection of Competition in its work, when it comes to state aid arrangements, shall take care equally or more of the economic interests of the European Union and its members than of the interests of the Republic of Croatia itself. That was as controversial for us as it is now. It is reasonable to regulate state support according to the economic interests of the European Union if it is a Member State of the European Union and already through cohesion funds it receives certain compensations. For not encouraging some branches of the economy in his own interest. However, harmonising Croatian state support with the interests of the European Commission without receiving funds from European funds at the same time is at least harmful. For these reasons, we will support this Report because it is a reflection of the situation, but we point to the unsustainability of such a model of state support, because it really has nothing to do with Croatian national interests but it has to do with the economic interests of the members of the European Union, or their companies that are our competitors. Of course, there remains an open question of how many individuals here are outstanding support really meaningful and whether they really are used in the right way. In this regard, a week ago, I sent a letter to Mr. Vukelic, the representative question of the Minister of Economy, to inform both myself and all of you in the Assembly about who Croatian shipyards are, which contracts have been concluded and in what amount. And that is because I am as aware as you that the Croatian state will continue to support state aids in supporting Croatian smugglers but that we will not always get the economic effect that we should get just because of very strange contracts that are often concluded. To eliminate all these doubts is best complete transparency and is the best complete review. This review is finally a day in this State Support Report. I also believe that it is not good that guarantees are brought into the same order as already hired support. The guarantees become an obligation of the State at the time when the guarantee is not paid. Then these guarantees are activated, but I believe it is European regulation but I believe it is not good to bring them into the same balance with the money that is really paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75568	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75569	Well, it is not true, and that is enough to say, Mr Tadic, counterpart Tadic, that the state support policy in the Republic of Croatia has nothing to do with Croatian national interests in the economy but also to go hand in hand and in favour of European, certain European companies, companies. It is a nonsensense, I think, about that, to deny that it should not, but such a finding is made here in the Croatian Parliament I think it does not stand and it is absurd. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75570	Thank you. Final review, President of the Council, Olga Spevec, please. You won't? Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Annual Report of the Agency for the Protection of Competition on State Aid 2005 I am voting on the following conclusion: the Annual Report of the Agency for the Protection of Competition on State Aid for 2005 is accepted. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? Unanimity with 86 votes for the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75573	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. First of all, I welcome you in front of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency and allow me to present in short lines the main specifics of the report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2005 as well as my personal observations in the past period. The Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency is required to submit once a year to the Croatian Parliament a report on its work, in particular on observations relevant to the development of the energy market and public services in the energy sector, energy sector analysis and the achievement of the Agency's budget for the previous year. The Agency’s full work report adopted the Agency’s Administrative Council at its 34th session held on 25 July 2006, and in this brief summary, I am only presenting the most significant content and emphasis of the above mentioned report as well as some personal observations in the Agency’s work over the past period. At the end of 2004, the Croatian Parliament adopted a new Law on the Regulation of Energy Activities, which took effect in December 2004, which was established by the Agency as the legal successor of the Energy Regulatory Council. On 20 May, the Croatian Parliament adopted a decision appointing the president, vice president and members of the Agency's Management Board. In July 2005, the Agency's Administrative Board, with the previous consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, adopted the Statute of the Agency and was entered in the Court of Justice register of the Commercial Court in Zagreb. In October 2005, the Management Board of the Agency appointed the Director of the Agency, the Agency’s Administrative Board in December 2005 also appointed the Head of the Department of the Agency. During 2005, the Agency’s Administrative Board also adopted the general acts necessary for the Agency’s work and adopted the Agency’s budget for 2006 in November of the same year. The Agency’s Administrative Board held a total of 20 meetings during 2005 by making decisions on all issues raised in the work of the Agency under the Act on the Regulatory of Energy Activities and the Statute of the Agency. Furthermore, during 2005, the Agency prepared and elaborated and actively co-operated on the drafting of several laws, sublaws and rules of importance for the organisation of the energy sector and markets, and gave expert opinions and proposals on the rules governing relations in the energy sector and regulate other issues in the organisation of energy activities and markets. The highest level of activity, and therefore cooperation on the production and adoption of legal provisions, took place according to the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. During 2005, the Agency continued its activities on the international agenda through the regional association of energy and regulatory bodies, cooperation with other regulatory bodies and participation in the work of the European Energy and Gas Forums. During 2005, several laws and regulations were passed by amendments to existing acts or by adopting new acts. In accordance with the Electricity Market Act of 1 January 2005, the electricity market for customers with annual consumption of more than 20 gigawatts of hours was opened. In accordance with the provisions of the Electricity Market Act, Croatia's electricity industry set up a Croatian co-opter of the energy market in 2005, which carries out the regulated activity of organising the electricity market as a public service. The amendments to the Gas Market Act are detailed in the award of concessions for gas distribution as well as ways of determining the minimum size of the distribution area. The law on the production, distribution and supply of thermal energy left the legal framework for the comprehensive and organised operation of the heat sector. During 2005, activities began to produce and adopt all sublegal acts related to renewable energy and cogeneration sources. A detailed overview of the state of the natural gas market, thermal energy, oil and oil derivatives in the Republic of Croatia, the dynamics of their opening up of the market and comparison with the state and prices on the international market are given in the report itself. On this occasion, we are only the most important. The level of openness of the electricity market, i.e. the condition and acquisition of the advantage and the right to change the supplier's rights for electricity customers in the Member States of the European Union and the accession countries and candidates of Romania and Bulgaria, i.e. Turkey shows that in 10 countries the market is fully open, in 12 countries the openness of the market is more than 50% and the rest is below that level. Today, the level of openness of the electricity market in the Republic of Croatia is based on the legal provision in opening up the market to customers with consumption of more than 9 megawatts of hours, and as measured by the share in total electricity consumption is around 15%. Adequate conditions for obtaining the status of a privileged gas buyer in the Republic of Croatia are prescribed by the Gas Market Act, the level of openness of the natural gas market measured by the share of the total gas consumption in the Republic of Croatia is about 50%. The report on the achievement of the Agency's 2005 budget shall be accompanied by the Agency's report. The Agency has made a significant difference between the planned and realised revenues resulting from the failure to comply with the legal obligations of energy operators for timely delivery of appropriate financial reports, which serve the Agency as a basis for calculating the compensation. Comparing planned and incurred expenditures, it is evident that a significant difference has been made between the plan and the achievement of the same segment. The reason for this is that the Agency started to work with its full capacity in mid-2005, i.e. only in the second part of 2005 and was unable to prepare and develop all planned activities in time. Of course, the planning of future expenditure will be based on known sizes, i.e. concrete documentation from the previous period of business and the corresponding differences in the future will be significantly less. In the relevant opinion of the auditor, the financial reports on all relevant aspects show the real and objective financial position of the Agency at over 31 December 2005 as well as the balance of the fund at that date. Financial reports shall be drawn up in accordance with the requirements of the Regulation and of the accounting and accounting plan of non-profit organisations as well as the provisions of the Energy Regulatory Act and the Statutes of the Agency. The presentation of the Agency’s financial report for 2005 as well as the findings independently of the auditor on the audit carried out of that financial report shall be attached to the report in question. And as a conclusion, I want to say this. In 2005, assumptions for the organisation and staffing of the Agency were reached. Further staffing of the Agency followed in 2006 so that today the Agency has 36 employees. This creates a key obligation for the organisational and professional construction of an energy regulatory body in accordance with the Energy Regulation Act. However, during the period from the establishment of the Agency to this day, we have also gained some experience which, as chairman of the Agency's Governing Council, I want to look into the interests of better and more effective work of the Agency in the future. The Law on the Regulatory of Energy Activities of December 2004 defines business and regulatory competences as well as the framework of the Agency’s organisations and activities. At the moment, I do not believe that this basic regulatory framework and content, i.e. the scope of the Agency's business and competence, need not be reconsidered since the relevant conditions have not yet been created for this. The negotiations with the European Union on energy are under way and the necessary additional commitments or additions will be defined through this process. This means that, in the final phase of this process, appropriate changes and additions to current energy laws and sublaws will be necessary. Although the Agency has worked and carried out its main tasks in accordance with the existing Energy Regulatory Act, with certain difficulties in working on what we must point out and what I believe we can and must do so far, we have seen the shortcomings of the organisation and the day-to-day activities and the work of the Agency that are listed in the preface of the report in question. The fact is that in 2004 there was no experience at the time of the adoption of the new Energy Regulation Act despite the existence of an earlier Energy Regulatory Council in the Republic of Croatia. As a result, it was not possible to adopt such a legal solution that would create an adequate framework to ensure, for a long time, the conditions for the quality of day-to-day functioning of the agency. In addition, a very similar development path has passed and other regulatory bodies in the region are still passing, as well as the regulatory authorities of the Member States of the European Union, of the old and new ones. Therefore, on the basis of all the observations and experiences gained from the Agency's work so far as it is a regulatory body, I propose that the necessary and necessary correction be carried out in relation to the organisation and operation of the Agency or the amendment of that part of the current Energy Regulatory Regulation which defines the organisational framework and the way the Agency works. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75574	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. For the club of MPs IDS esteemed representative Valter Poropat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75575	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. President of the Management Council of the Agency, colleagues and colleagues! Since the agency was established as a universal legal follow-up of the Energy Regulatory Council and based on the decision to determine the Energy Institute "Croatia Pozar" to prepare and carry out professional tasks for the needs of the Energy Regulatory Council, which was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Energy Institute "Croatia Pozar" from Zagreb, it is agreed that it is necessary to continue the continuity of the work so far, i.e. to complete all activities with the aim of providing professional support to the full establishment and organisation of the Agency. However, during the period from the establishment of the agency to this day, certain experiences have been gained which the chairman of the Management Board of the Agency, who is here today with us, addressed and in the interest of a better and more functional operation of the Agency. Namely, the Law on the Regulation of Energy Activities of December 2004 defines the tasks and regulatory competences and the framework of the organisation and operation of the Agency. The President of the Management Board of the Agency considers that at this time it is not necessary to review the regulatory framework of the Agency's activities or tasks, since the conditions for the creation of a new regulatory framework have not yet been met. It should be pointed out that both the framework for regulation and the competence of energy regulators and otherwise the subject of the regulation of the relevant legislation of the European Union, i.e. the Directive and the regulation of the European Union with which Croatian energy legislation is substantially harmonised, which is very important. On the other hand, negotiations with the European Union for the field of energy are under way and any necessary additional commitments and additions will be defined through this process. This means that, in the final phase of this process, appropriate changes and additions to current energy laws and sublaws and rules should be made and, in accordance with these amendments and additions, it will be necessary to coordinate the organisation of undertakings and markets in the energy sector and to implement and implement the appropriate amendment and addition of the Energy Activity Regulatory Act. What is necessary and needs to be pointed out is the necessity of removing the shortcomings observed so far within the organisation's day-to-day activities and work of the agency. Therefore, on the basis of the observations and experience gained in the field of the functioning of the Agency as a regulatory body and of the existing rules in this activity, it is proposed to carry out the necessary and necessary correction in relation to the organisation of the Agency’s activities, or the part of the applicable Energy Regulatory Act, which defines the organisational framework of the Agency. Finally, the proposed changes are crucial to ensuring the future continued independent and independent work of the Agency. If changes were not carried out in due time, the functioning of the agency may be at stake in the exercise of the public powers conferred on it by law which may result in a slowdown or perhaps even blocking of the process of restructuring the energy sector in the Republic of Croatia. Such a situation and its consequences could ultimately have a negative impact on the process of negotiations with the European Union for the field of energy, which would make all efforts so far made to restructure the energy sector, open the market and bring it into line with the European Union's regulation. Accordingly, the IDS Club will support this report by the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75576	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75577	Dear Mr. Vice President! Here, allow me a few words. The report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency includes observations that are important for the development of the energy market as well as public services in the energy sector. The report also includes an analysis of the energy sector, which I will say more about. Certainly, the next report expects this energy sector analysis to be more comprehensive and comprehensive. The Agency's budget for 2005 was also shown in this report. In general, this report realistically outlines the situation in the energy sector in the Republic of Croatia during 2005, and certainly with the addition of the part relating to the analysis of the energy sector in the next report, we expect that when we discuss these important topics of energy security and the energy future of the Republic of Croatia, we will have more insight into all those problems, difficulties ahead of us, and we expect that through all institutions of the Croatian state, Government, Ministry, INA, HEP, we will address the problems that are important and that need to enable the smooth economic development of the Republic of Croatia through the availability of energy resources in the needed quantities. From this point on, it is clear that the HDZ Club will support this report, but one fact that has been observed in the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency so far concerns certain irregularities of the Energy Regulation Act. Given the rapid dynamics of changes in this area legislative, harmonisation with European Union directives, we will also have to agree with the Government of the Republic of Croatia as well as the Ministry of Economy to approach the necessary amendments and additions to the Energy Regulation Act which should then allow for the modernisation of the governance structure as well as all that is necessary for all those processes important for the regulation and management of energy markets in the Republic of Croatia to take place within the framework of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. This report consists of several key parts. Report No 1 (a) provides basic information on the legislative framework for the regulation of the energy sector and energy activities. The tasks of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency in the field of issuance, the withdrawal of permits for the performance of energy activities, price regulation, supervision of the tariff system for the services of electricity activities carried out as public services are highlighted. The supervision of the tariff system in the natural gas sector and also special attention has been paid to all those issues related to participation in the process of making and adopting legal provisions, giving opinions, consent, approval, decisions, solutions, dispute resolution as well as consumer protection. International co-operation is a very important task of responsibility and competence of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, and it has been given appropriate attention in this regard. In section b), the observations that are relevant for the development of the energy market of public services are today, but it would talk a little more about this part of C), which concerns the analysis of the energy sector and I believe that this is the part of the report that will require certain improvements in the coming period, modifications so that all those reading these important documents have a better insight into everything and what is happening in the energy sector. In this part of the energy sector analysis, quality and good and the electricity market has been fully processed, and I would say we have no objections. The natural gas market is also on page 7 with all the important aspects that are related to this very fast and dynamic market. The production, distribution and supply of thermal energy has a certain contribution but the oil and oil products market, which is very important in the context of this report, is represented by 1/3 of the site and, in any event, is not good, is not acceptable and does not reflect the importance of that part of the energy sector in the overall energy market and the overall energy system of the Republic of Croatia, and thus also points to the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. And you have to take care of that. All these important parts of the total energy sector deserve due attention and this must be seen in the context of this report, which in some way indicates that those persons responsible for this part of the report but also for that part of the energy sector that is related to the oil and oil products market have not contributed to how this should be done. Here's a few observations I think are useful. With electricity generation taking into account how production continues to grow and the construction of new resources moves but insufficient speed and dynamics and this is a question that deserves our special attention. The total installed power at the threshold of power plants in the Republic of Croatia is three thousand 695 megawatts. Of that capacity, 1,000 631 megawatts are in thermal power plants and 2,000 064 megawatts in hydropower plants. What is particularly important is to highlight the basic features of the work of the thermal power plants operated by HEP production d.o.o. This is the age of our thermal power plants, our production units whose average age is almost 38 years old. The low energy efficiency of the production units and the large installed power of the production units on the vine oil points to the diagnostics of the situation in that important segment. In spite of the high average age, however, the availability of production units is high, which is the result of not only regular maintenance but would say quality maintenance thanks to the fact that the Republic of Croatia in this energy sector or especially in the electricity sector has a whole range of important companies, institutions, which are able but not only to maintain these facilities in the Republic of Croatia in a high quality way but what I particularly turn around, it is important for these institutions to be more present on the international market to offer their experience and knowledge on the maintenance of these facilities as a form of services to be increased, service services and revenues to the Croatian economy. Over the next 15 years, it is expected to leave the plant over a thousand megawatts of thermopower plants due to the end of life, and that is one important fact that needs to be highlighted, which we should be aware of. For this reason, as a result of the constant increase in consumption during 2005 an important decision was made to start the construction of two new production facilities "Lesce" and the block L... Zagreb. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, we must be aware of the strength of our relationship. A thousand hundred megawatts coming out of the drive for the next 15 years. Now we start building these objects whose installed power is negligible or 10% of all of this. Something about the natural gas market and the supply and consumption of natural gas in the Republic of Croatia, it is a topic that deserves attention. Domestic production in 2005 was a total of 1,837 billion cubic metres for the needs of the Croatian market, from which 1,392 billion cubic metres were produced in Panon. In the northern Adriatic, 0.445 billion cubic metres of natural gas. Imports of natural gas in 2005 from Russia's Gazprom amounted to 1,134 billion cubic metres of gas or 7.6% more than in 2004. What needs to be taken care of, and we talked about it a little yesterday. The supply routes of natural gas and oil must be diversified. They cannot belong to only one supplier because this brings us into a position of energy uncertainty, energy dependence and these are mechanisms through which the ability of the Croatian economy as a whole can be managed. We need to be aware of that. Furthermore, in order to address the issue of sufficientness, stability and reliability of gas supply, it is necessary to implement the planned plans for the construction of gas transport systems, modernisation of them, but certainly when it comes to such an important annual report related to energy sector analysis should also take into account some important energy projects that are being prepared or are on the near horizon. I'll only mention some of them because they deserve our attention and our active relationship with them. Here is perhaps the key gas projects: the Nabucco project that needs to be able to diversify supply routes in order to reduce overall dependence solely on Russian gas sources by directing and activating Caspian sources that have been largely linked through Russian supply routes. The Nabucco project is a project that has great support from the European Commission and the Commissioner for Energy of the European Commission is one of the people who leads, speeds up and gives dynamics to this project. However, its realization is related to the corridor which is north of the Republic of Croatia and bypasses the Republic of Croatia with very significant installed transport gas resources. In this respect, it is necessary to make sure in due time that a link is established with that corridor. But... which is extremely important for the Republic of Croatia and an appropriate consortium has been established and in which Croatia will play a very active and important role requires certain dynamics because even without Croatian partners, the consortium has started funding certain projects and studies, and unless the understanding agreement is signed in time, it may happen that the North Adriatic "LNG" terminal is created without our participation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We certainly hope that doesn't happen. It will never happen, but it is never bad to warn about the dynamics of these projects' movements so that they are not accidentally delayed. In the end, another important project is related to the pan-European corridor, the Trieste Oil Constant. I personally had a chance to tour that corridor from Constanta to the west. He is blocked by certain interstate problems this hour and I would not like to see a moment or time go into details, but with a wise policy the Republic of Croatia can bypass these obstacles and activate a pan-European corridor that is indeed our energy, strategic interest. And here you can allow the final HDZ Club to accept a report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. That's the first one. Secondly, the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship is expected to approach the needs in cooperation with the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, with the support of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, with amendments to the Energy Regulation Act in order to improve the organisational, legal and any other form in the next period of work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75578	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSLS Club, Mr. Representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75579	.../The speaker is away from the microphone./... Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor... Ladies and gentlemen. [[/The speaker doesn't understand, he's away from the microphone.]] The Association of Representatives of the Croatian Socialoliberal Party accepts the reports of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for the reporting period and, on the basis of the knowledge of the activities of this State Agency, we are free to present some opinions or proposals for conclusions for this debate. HERA is, just to remind, established after a strategy for reforming the energy sector in the Republic of Croatia has been adopted as a regulatory agency. Regulatory in terms of leading roles in the process of demonopolisation or liberalisation of the energy sector and with the aim of protecting national interests, the interest of good energy policy in the Republic of Croatia, but also, I think, in particular, the interests of citizens from misleading, biased, indistinguishable procedures that come during the transition from monopolitical to market business in this sector. In order to achieve its mission, HERA is thought to run the required activities in cooperation with energy operators in the energy sector and to make decisions independently of... the position of existing energy entities having a monopoly position. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is precisely this fact that we want to draw attention to the fact that certain articles have appeared through the media on the dependence of independent agencies in the Republic of Croatia from a society with a monopoly position, and citizens continue to object to the monopolitical behaviour of individual entities. In view of the fact that energy is used by all citizens of this country as well as by all economic operators, we are asking the Agency to act as required by its founding act and in accordance with the meaning of its establishment and to protect energy users from the desire of energy subjects who would continue to want to maintain a monopoly position. We believe that this position is beneficial for the Republic of Croatia and for all its citizens and economic operators, as well as for energy entities themselves, because the sooner they turn to their own business in a demonopolized position, then they will be, then they can be braver and more capable of dealing with competition that will certainly bring market business. It sounds paradoxical but I think the very purpose of this agency is also helping those who have this monopoly position so far. Energy subjects dealing with natural gas distribution, energy-reliant energy sources of the Republic of Croatia in the next 40 years come serious warnings that the adoption of a tariff system for natural gas is inadmissible, which is directly in the field of work of this agency and that the consequence of this fact is that the unfavourable business situation of the gas distributor resulting in losses in business. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: Then he is alone, as the song “Dirious Effort Players” would say, to build a transport system if there is not one who will be able to distribute that gas. In speeding up the adoption of this tariff system for natural gas, distributors warn that those failures observed when a heat distribution tariff system was introduced relatively quickly. I don't think it would be bad if we learned something from our own mistakes and what we did when we adopted a tariff system that now, if we could possibly avoid it. We think that too much time has been spent at the club, that all quality proposals have been submitted and that legal deadlines have expired and that as far as we're concerned, there is no excuse that the tariff system for natural gas is not brought in favour of again saying all the subjects but, above all, customers and distributors. The Croatian community but also the whole world faces the problem of supplying the planetary energy stream to different energies. The problem of security supply we well know can cause and cause certain wars and that the price of certain energys between them and gas to rise quite dizzyly. Officials in the European Commission have been through these some time ago and other reports have faced this rise in gas and electricity prices in the past year and we can read that their surprise did not end. Since there are new steps in the reform of the energy sector from this place and this occasion, we are giving the request to the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency to take all in the context of its obligations and powers to prevent events that could lead to an increase in energy prices for end-users, and this would lead to reckless attribution of, above all, the tariff system as an uncompetitive model of market donation and the lack of power to regulate a monopoly position and, as I say, it is no longer possible. We therefore also propose that the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, together with the Agency, draw up a document that would consider a possible critical impact on the price of energy for end-users and develop a risk management strategy for energy prices. But for the end, we are still giving full support to this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75580	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Jaksa Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75581	Mr. Vice President, Mr. President of the Council, colleagues and colleagues. When you look at this Report this year on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency and previous years of the Council, except that there is little change in the year. By the way, I have to say what I said when I was behind this speaker, I think I was talking about it, the Energy Regulatory Council that was the predecessor to this agency, it seemed like seven members to me, and as we just heard earlier, this agency already has 36 people. 36 people, for the last time, I was saying that we have in this activity, in this branch of the economy a huge number of experts, professional organisations and that I see no reason for professional bases to work in the Agency itself, but they can be ordered from these same professional organisations. I'm not quite sure that now the completion of the Agency if it's a complete number of up to 36 people something special is happening in terms of what even in the Council President's report, it says that with certain institutions an agreement has been made and a contract on the creation of some professional works that are necessary for this Agency. You know, we're forced to certain I would say so system measures, including agencies and councils because Europe is asking us to, and the question is what we have as a real state. We used to have this other agency. And what do we have? We have HEP or HEP production as a basic energy supplier or energy producer through distribution. We've got the HEP again, we've got the INA, we've got the PLINACRO, and who else do we have? What kind of market do we have? We in this, in this activity, have in energy activity a monopoly, whether or not to admit it. It is probably the same in many other countries, and the worst is if we also bring this monopoly down to energy suppliers doing so for other consumers and for HEP itself. Namely, we have a good part and import energy. According to what I've been informed, it seems that's the case and it's a big question whether it can only be one importer and one trader. It's one of the tasks of this agency, and at least it should stretch and it should actually fight it, and my information is that they just picked one. I don't know if it's true. On the other hand, one of the cornerstones of regulation and the setting of eligible costs for regulated entities, and in energy this is known clearly, HEP, INA, Gas Acro, gas distributors these smaller on the basis of which the eligible income of an individual entity is formed, i.e. the price of certain electricity services, e.g. heat, gas. Also regulatory... call for conditions for the establishment and operation of the electricity and natural gas market to enable consumers to choose the most favourable service provider. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're still a long way from it. We're still far, far from it because, and I don't know when we'll get to it. So, while we settle this, the job of this agency should be to determine how the price of the base is to form the prices of energy services, to ensure fair play on the market, to monitor players on the market, and to defil participants on the market itself. How do we do it today? You know that any increase in prices and fuel and gas and electricity is approved by the government. There must be certain formulas and that all of this is approved by the government. Clearly, before the government does so, it should also make certain professional bases on which the government would make such decisions. The Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency would also be responsible for these bases. Now I'm asking the question. Is it possible for the HERA Administrative Board to give a positive opinion over a period of a little more than one year on the increase in electricity tariff items, resulting in an increase in prices without previously professionally justified analyses by the regulatory authority, giving or approving an increase in the price of auto-gasing without the necessary sub-legislative acts which would establish a methodology for calculating the eligible costs, i.e. How do you form prices? It did not address the problem of gas distribution, resulting in an illegal increase in prices and energy in certain distribution areas. So I would ask these questions for an answer as well as another important question. In particular, certain rules and laws have been decided that a member of the Governing Council may not be appointed as a person who is legally tried for a criminal offence which makes it unworthy to perform the duties of a member of the Governing Council, acting as representative of the Croatian Parliament or of a member of a representative body of local or regional (regional) self-government, executive authority or in a working relationship with an energy entity to which the provisions of the law in the region apply. Of the 5 members of the council, two members were employed before their appointment in one of the entities whose subject is, therefore, HEP, whose before them, whose business is in their jurisdiction. Like two others who had been to the Energy Regulatory Council before, for, in... So, according to law, there have already been two mandates and the question is whether there can be another mandate, because the law limits it to two mandates. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Those are questions I'd like to answer. There might be a lot more to talk about here, but it's not my intention, I'll leave something for another time. And now, along the way, let me say something and repeat what I've been saying on previous reports. We should be happy today because here is the beginning of the preparatory work on the construction of the Lesca hydropower plant. It is the first hydropower plant to be built in the Croatian state, in the Croatian independent state. None were built in Croatia's independent state, all built in the former Yugoslavia. It's also familiar to you, at least from what I said that we hydroenergy have somewhere between 40 and 50% of our consumption. Somewhere between five and six billion kilowatt hours, depending on the hydrological year. And so we take consumption depending, I say depending on production again to 40, 40 to 50%. The rest is covered by production from thermal objects, from all alternative facilities and from imports. The age of hydro objects is as I have already said very large. Our elders are over half a century old. And the youngest thing is less than 20 years old. As counterpart Ćosic said, thermal sources are also very old, except for Plomin, they are all objects that have probably earned a pension by certain criteria long ago. I don't know from this report, I didn't even see what our relations with Bosnia are like now, because we had investments in Bosnia quite large, in the previous state. I also don't know what relations with Slovenia are like with the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. As far as I know, we're getting electricity now, but have we solved those debts that have been created by not delivering electricity to Croatia? I don't know. It would also be much better to talk here again about what our future is going to be like, not to talk year after year about reports, because whoever has the energy is the master in his house. Whoever's addicted to energy, I won't say he'll be a servant, but the master certainly won't be. You see it from these relationships that are already happening in the second winter with gas towards Ukraine, but when Ukraine reduces gas, then Europe coughs and that's a huge problem. I have to say one more time. I respect the Prime Minister's decision to say in such a resolute manner that we will build a terminal on Krk because for our gas needs and for the development we intend to bring gas to Dalmatia, we must have three sources, according to my thick conviction: the connection to the east through Hungary, these wells we have on the Adriatic and the gas in the Krka. And these three sources could be our guarantee that our needs could be met. If we don't have it, then we'll have a cough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75582	Thank you. It's the National Minority Club, Madam Representative Željka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75583	Mr. Vice President, Mr. President of the Board of Directors, colleagues and fellow MPs. The National Minorities Club will support the report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, but since this report is also a report on observations of importance for the development of the energy market, as well as an analysis of the energy sector we would like to warn of an area that is unfortunately very little to be mentioned in this report as well as when the report for 2004 was. In fact, if we follow the meaning of the energy sector, electricity, gas, we can be satisfied in any case. In fact, Croatia signed a contract last year with the European Union and Southeast European countries on an energy community where it certainly facilitates both trade and distribution both with gas and electricity. The same way we heard yesterday how much gas pipeline is being built, today here, and yesterday on television it was that Croatia also started to install the first hydropower plant, I mean as an independent country. So I don't think we're going in these two areas fast-tracking, but we're dealing with the problem, and it sure seems a lot in that field. Unfortunately encouraged here by a report in the field of issuing permits that zero or no permits have been issued for the production of biofuels, I would like to draw attention precisely to the biofuels area. Yesterday, in the Ministry of Agriculture, the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, together with experts in forestry, spoke about this part of the energy, and it was concluded that, unfortunately, in Croatia, we did not take the first step when it comes to biofuels. Namely, no economic project applied to domestic banks and funds is accepted by reason that there are no legal regulations and such a product, and above all I mean bio-fuels, bio-mass and bio-gas are not recognised on the market and cannot be sold. I think that the foresters will probably talk about the part of the bio-mass that has nevertheless received the incentives of the European Union and that will certainly deliver results over two or three years. Unfortunately, when it comes to bio-fuels and bio-gas, if we exclude Ozalj based on import oil and a project that tries to define the Ministry of Agriculture on waste oils, and we know that only 500 tonnes of waste oil are collected in Croatia at this time, that it is maximum possible on the number of populations and capacities we have, to collect two thousand tonnes of waste oil annually, it is not for the start of any serious bio-fuel production. And that is why I would like to warn you that this agency should also point out in its reports the problem that first we do not have a legislative framework so that these fuels could be on the market at all. Secondly, that we should point to existing potentials, above all, agriculture that has through unprocessed areas of potential that at least in the first part, which the European Union obliges us to produce 30, 50 thousand tonnes of biofuels, but certainly with a different incentive policy that again requires normal regulation and new legislation. We also heard here yesterday that Croatia encourages the development of livestock farming, that we build cattle farms, that we build larger pig farms, and that is certainly to be commended. But what about the waste from those farms? What and how we will get the consent of the European Union if we do not know how to manage this waste. The European Union not only knows how to manage this waste but also encourages the management of this waste right in the direction of biogas production, and biogas continues to go exactly in the direction of the production of heat or cogeneration, I will not now talk about certain details, but certainly we should have taken those steps. Since we are late in that first part, I think the agency here has to point out, the problem must be, if not already set up by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Environmental Protection as a problem, the agency would have to warn you very much. The European Union has already moved on today, fostering a second generation of biofuels, primarily bio-ethanol. It promotes orientation and excess sugar, but above all, the excess grains that each country has infused in export, and on the other hand, the incentives could keep inside the country, direct them to produce bio-ethanol and create a part of its own energy and its own independence. I think it's a subject to talk about, I think it's very warning. I say, starting right from you who are in control and production, that is, distribution and you certainly look at and price, and certainly your own production can also affect lower prices. So I ask you to answer me what your plans are, but is there any possibility that in the further part there might be a larger engagement in this area because obviously neither the agronomic nor the forest profession, or any other professions that should have done this segment for some reason, have done theirs? Thank you very much and I would like to stress once again that we will support the report, but I think that the role of this segment for the European Union is important. Finally, the European Union is binding us into biofuels and renewable fuel resources. Because the moment we became a candidate and became, that is, when we started negotiating at the end of each year, we are obliged to give a report on what we are in the biofuels area and what we have done in the area of renewable fuels. I think we'll get a very quick pack after the first report, so here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75584	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Petar Mlinarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75585	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, President of the Board of Directors. The report gives a clear overview of the observations that are relevant to the energy sector. Entry into the process of restructuring the energy sector, the state of law. These assessments of the level of development of the energy market and of public services as well as comparisons with the same processes in the countries of the European Union or the countries of the region. A significant part of the Report is dedicated to the assessment of the extent to which the current legal solutions are relevant in relation to the expected development of relations in the energy sector, the continuation of the process of restructuring the energy sector, as well as the adjustment of the structure and the relationship on the energy market in the EU's energy market. Noting that one of the main objectives of opening the energy market is to enable all energy suppliers to get equal transparency and non-discriminatory conditions for supplying customers and vice versa, and to give customers the right to choose suppliers, the role of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency is clear as well as the factor in regulating their relationship to the energy field and consumer protection. It is clear that the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency has sought to increase the information of energy operators and customers on changes in energy markets and on the opportunities offered by market relations and regulation of energy activities through its work as well as regular communications with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry, bodies, institutions of the State Administration, consumer and public associations. That's how she performed one of the very important functions. Raising the level, awareness and information of all relevant actors in the energy sector, which is an important prerequisite for the successful implementation of the energy sector reform on our path to EU membership. In this way, HERA has established a balance of rights and responsibilities in a regulatory system where the economic power of the energy sector has been brought into balance with regulatory power by regulating agencies and overseeing judicial bodies that resolve disputes. It was precisely because of the importance and balance of power between businesses and regulators that it was very important to ensure independence during this initial period. Finally, the adjustment of the organisation and way of financing the energy sector and markets to the standards of the organisation and way of functioning of the energy market in the countries of the European Union is one of the key strategic definitions of the energy development of the Republic of Croatia. And the Croatian Regulatory Agency, headed by the Governing Council, is a guarantee of the implementation of this objective. I am of my opinion that we should give a positive opinion on this report, regardless of the president's preface and his comments which I think represent his separate opinion. I believe the Administrative Council deserves recognition for work and trust so far for the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75586	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zeljko Ledinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75587	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here are a few words about this report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency which was founded two years ago. This is practically the first report we're talking about. Since at that time, however, the Agency has teamed up, as many as we have heard by the number of people, it is obvious that in the future the reports will be certainly better and better and better quality and will be able to respond to everything that should happen in this sector. Since we also have our strategies that have been adopted both in the government and in the Parliament, what I personally think is bothering me, and that is that those strategies that exist in particular energy should regularly carry out their audits. Because apparently the trends that are in our environment, around the world, change very quickly. So, and this is also mentioned in these reports where Mr Galic points out that there are a lot of ambiguities in the Energy Regulation Act, and on page 6 and 7 he proposes 12 amendments and additions to the Law. And it is not stated, if these changes were not made for a short time, how the Agency will operate and whether these changes will result in slowing down or blocking the process of restructuring the energy sector in our country. And I believe that such a situation can also have a negative impact on negotiations with the European Union. That is why it would be good to hear from the Director of the Agency, and also from people who are in charge of having some time ahead, whether they will meet together with the Resort Ministry and propose these changes. Or let's try if we can't find it within our own teams then professional people who are competent for these areas and pay some other firms to make proposals for those laws that are clearly, holding back the development of that entire system. I believe we will soon receive proposals from these laws, amendments that are proposed here. The very preface also states that... The authorisation to carry out energy activities is therefore to conclude that a stable development of the energy market has been granted only one authorisation for all activities except for... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And for trading and intermediation and representation on the energy market, there are more of them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would ask the question here how is the fact that only one permit to HEP has been issued for electricity supply, and does this retain the company's monopoly? I was the same in such a state-owned company and that I know that often state-owned companies that have a monopoly can have a negative impact on other games that might have developed that market better, better and faster. When I talk about it, I would like to mention problems with renewable energy sources that are only now beginning to develop. They're just like that because it's in the energy strategy itself... It is only after 2015 that they start to develop significantly more. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was only this year that something began to feel that this area was happening, and this is confirmed by yesterday's rally, which was already mentioned here in the Ministry of Agriculture where I, as a forester, see a great opportunity precisely to use energy from biomass throughout our country. This energy can have a lot, it is ecological, it is used in the world as part of other energy, as a compatible energy with a non-carbon nitrogen where it reduces pollution and everything else and with quantities that are quite large and are not negligible when it would add even more and I don't know the effects of private forests and everything else could give huge amounts of energy and thus would reduce this large imports that today is energy. I know that today's monopolies are the easiest to introduce an oil tanker and produce energy, and when we look at trends that are in the world today, in Europe at least how much I have information I see everyone using these very renewable energy sources in a way that they get that energy, that because it's pure energy that complements all systems and here I see a great role of this regulatory agency that should change existing strategies, work them out, and that's what Mr Galic seems to me and spoke to me in the introduction where and in the very parts of it is mentioned. I would also ask another question that I am interested in since HEP's operating system, HEP distribution system is practically the only one and has a lot of objections to it. Even here in the report, we saw that, let's say the largest number of complaints has even 33% for the failures of electrical numbers, and that seems very much to me. I'm here, and I've personally had a lot of contacts with HEP this year, so I've had a chance to see a lot of things, but it's not for a parliamentary debate, but apparently that's how the monopolies in our country behave, and since that distribution network is related to 75% of the customers, what our regulatory agency thinks about this organization. I think it would be a good idea to get proposals from our agency, then change that system that was obviously not quite the most efficient so far, and I believe that now that the IPA is there 36 experts and that it can also give the right opinions and invite these people to really suggest what it is to do to get a more quality energy system, and you are just invited as the Agency to propose it to the rest ministry and ministry then to us and I think that in the short time then we can get the best indicators to take advantage of all potential capacities, here is the second and... The other day I read in the paper made. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the use of these other renewable energy sources in cooperation with the existing and start-up construction of some smaller hydrocenters can reduce these imports of energy that are very high today. Here's what I'd like to conclude is that I'm going to support this report as the first one presented at this House and that we expect for next year that we'll have better results in this entire sector, and I believe that there will be experts from... a lot of help. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75588	Thank you very much. And finally, on behalf of the promoter, Mr. Tomo Galic, President of the Governing Council. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75589	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I'm going to look at some of the questions that are within my jurisdiction, so I'm going to go first on information about tariff systems in the natural gas distribution area. Therefore, I would just like to give information that the tariff system for the distribution of natural gas and the tariff system for natural gas supply is in the procedure of adoption. Therefore, both tariff systems have been completed, sent to energy entities for opinion, the Energy Regulatory Agency is also now very closely monitoring all observations and proposals from the field. We're still going to pay very, very much attention to that tariff system, he's very sensitive and I believe that by the end of the year we're going to get him by the deadline. Therefore, the tariff system for the distribution of natural gas, for natural gas supply, but also for two other tariff systems in the natural gas area. It is therefore a tariff system for the supply of natural gas and a tariff system for the storage of natural gas. So we've got a lot of work to do by the end of the year, but the rest is this time, I think we'll use it usefully. The following question was addressed, therefore, was a commentary on the relationship of the number of members, so it is worth the current number, so I think you all know that because the structure under the first Energy Regulation Law was unacceptable, so it was not in line with the directives of the European Union, so where the Energy Institute of Hrvoje Fire was an expert institution that was to provide support to the Energy Activity Regulatory Council. Because of the conflict of interest, this was no longer sustainable and therefore a step forward has been taken, so a new Energy Regulation Act has been adopted which has also been established that the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency must establish its own professional service which will naturally deal with a purely specialised area, that is, the area of regulation of energy activities, and of course it will use all other professional and scientific institutions in the Republic of Croatia to use those skills that they specialize in their fields, which can, of course, be used to carry out and create our activity, or our business. The following question was therefore considered by the Croatian Energy, i.e. the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency to increase electricity prices that the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency or the Administrative Council gave a positive opinion on the proposal of the Ministry of Labour, Economy and Entrepreneurship and a detailed expert analysis was carried out. At that time, HERA had not yet had its own professional service. So she used the support of the experts of the Energy Institute "Hrvoje Požar" but a detailed expert analysis was carried out, which made it clear that the request was justified and in this sense the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency gave a positive opinion. The following question was then a question related to the area of renewable energy and cogeneration. So the role of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency in this area is therefore linked to the way in which all sublegal rules are adopted in this area, that the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, or its Administrative Council, gives an opinion on the proposals of all sublaws in that area. Our experts participated in the creation of all sublegal regulations for which the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship is responsible. What I know is that these are all sublegal regulations, it is a whole package of sublegal regulations that are almost finished, that will be in the adoption procedure very soon and where, of course, the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency will give its opinion. I believe it will be delivered by the end of the year because it's been working for a long time. These are, of course, very sensitive sublegal regulations. It is a tariff incentive system, it is necessary to provide certain means to promote these activities because this area of renewables could not function without incentives. Of course, it's always a very sensitive area. As for the authorisation and openness of the electricity market, as well as other energies. It has been issued and in this report it is visible that only one electricity supply permit has been issued but in the meantime this report is only for 2005. Another license has been issued for the supply of electricity but a company that is outside the Croatian electricity system, a company that is present in other European Union countries, a competitive company that will be absolutely certain when all assumptions are met, which is the adoption of a full electricity regulation and is currently under way of adopting the latest regulations from that area. We can safely say that by the end of the year, complete electricity regulations will be passed and that this will create assumptions, create a legal assumption for the open electricity market in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, the question now is the price and appearance of competitors. It is now another question but that all other legal assumptions will be achieved. It's an important prerequisite because without it, it wouldn't be possible. And the last question that I registered from my jurisdiction is the question of customer protection and quality of energy, so customer complaints. And customers began to recognise the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. I have to say that, and perhaps on purpose, we didn't introduce ourselves more and more strongly for public reasons because we weren't teamed up, but now that we've been trained, we're going to give more and more information to customers that we exist because of course they see in us a certain entity that will protect their interest. Of course, they are weaker sides than energy. It is our job to protect energy entities as well as customers and, of course, to pay special attention to customers as a weaker party which, of course, cannot cope equally with all these problems as energy subjects can. So the customers also recognized us. The demands are coming to us, we carefully process them and try everything according to the law and solve them. That'll be all. I'm not the other... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75590	Thank you very much. I am concluding the debate, and since several committees have scheduled their sessions now in ten minutes, fifteen minutes, so we will not start the next item of the agenda but continue at 15.00 hours with the National Population Policy Proposal and then the Proposal for a Law on Volunteering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75591	Report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency with observations of importance for the development of the energy market and public services in the energy sector, an analysis of the energy sector and the achievement of the Agency's 2005 budget. I am voting on the following conclusion: a report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency is adopted with observations of importance for the development of the energy market and public services in the energy sector, an analysis of the energy sector and the achievement of the Agency's budget for 2005. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 87 votes in favour and 1 abstention of the proposed conclusion. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session and the debate on - National Population Policy Proposal The act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, Work, Social Policy and Health, Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Committee on Immigration. You received the reports at the session. Deputy Prime Minister and family minister, defenders and intergenerational solidarity, Jadranka Kosor will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75593	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Madam MPs and the gentlemen of the MPs, I warmly welcome you. Here at the beginning of the debate on an extremely important document proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, of course the document we expect, we sincerely expect a consensus, i.e. common views on important issues that are important for this moment, but quite certainly for the future of Croatia, and I think that we are the generation and in the legislative and executive authority that has the opportunity to adopt, to identify some of which we are proposing to take effect already next year, which we have the foundations and in the budget to discuss next week, but these are also some measures for a long-term period for the next ten years that we will believe to fix this catastrophic demographic picture today in Croatia, which is worrying for many reasons and seen with various aspects. This is a situation that we have been constantly warned about for years above all by our prominent demographers, demographers of course that are appreciated in Croatia, but also as experts of the United Nations, who warn us among others, this is the information that I believe we all know that is constantly spinning in the public as well as in the public, the fact that, for example, for less than 50 years, we will be about a million less in Croatia, so one worrying data from both the economic point of view and from the national point of view, the security position, and could naturally list a lot of things here, but I think I have said what is most important. That is why since the start of the term of office, this government has been seeking to put this problem in a better place than the first targets in the government's term of office, since the beginning of 2004 we have therefore paid great attention to this problem. I'll just remind you that in 2004, we've already made decisions and budgets, but, of course, the legal ones we've returned to the level of maternity benefits in 2001, so we've increased them. They returned the possibility of using three years of paid leave for twin mothers, three and more children and started with a program of free textbooks for families with eight and more children. So it's a 2004 program. Now, when I mention the textbooks, I'll say that we agreed then, so the launch of this project for free textbooks for elementary school students and high school kids in families with eight and more children. However, as soon as economic opportunities allow, which means, of course, budgeting, we will extend this project to other children. And that's what we're doing right now, and I'm saying it as one example, and we're doing it now in the 2007 budget, but also as one of the population policy measures, so free family textbooks, i.e. for children who are included in compulsory education, which means in 2007, all primary school students and first grade high school students. I would say once again that this is for us I am sure that in this respect we will absolutely all agree, regardless of the party membership in this House, the first-class political question, the question of how we will actually be, what kind of situation will be when it comes to the nation in 10, 15, in 20, 50 years that this is also a first-rate strategic issue. Certainly the first-class national issue, but I point out always the first-class economic issue, because of course it is a question of all the questions of who will work, who will eventually return the loans for highways, for example for all other major projects. I must say, there have been a lot of speeches in the meeting of the Economic and Social Council, which this National Population Policy has adopted unanimously. So we've been given government support for our social partners, which is extremely important for the government, and I'm sure for all of you. So support both unions and employers. I would also like to point out that both representatives and trade unions and employers also took part in the advice that he made of course within the Government of the Republic of Croatia because it is the advice appointed by the Government, this proposal for population policy. I would also say, even though many of you know it, because there have been a lot of public words about it, that the advice is precisely respected by all our prominent experts dealing with this area by Mrs. Alice Verhemen Balletić, who has been better told for many years, which is because of what long ago, ancient, ancient, almost I would say, 71st warned of the problems that Croatia, or the Croatian people, will face for a number of years, and it is precisely because it has warned that we are going in a very disastrous trend which could have been predicted then, and which unfortunately proved to be true, was, in some years, declared the 70s, 71st nationalist simply because it warned that we are going in one direction that is very bad and that disaster will happen to us. There are, of course, demographics like Mr. Gelo, Mr. Akrap, Mr. Nejasmic, but representatives of NGOs who also have something to say about this area. I have already said, representatives of employers, trade unions, doctors, therefore, all those interested in protecting the family, protecting children and ultimately of course for the future of Croatia. So, I repeat, this document has been supported by the Economic and Social Council. And now I would move on to the most important indications from the National Population Policy that, I believe, you've all had the opportunity to read, study, bring a series of extremely important measures many of which have already been implemented in 2007, but what's also important are the deadlines, the ways in which the deadlines will be implemented, and actually the deadlines in which the implementation of the measures would have to be implemented. I think it is extremely important that this will be important primarily for the Croatian Parliament to oversee how the National Population Policy is implemented, but also for us in the Ministry of Family, Defence, intergenerational solidarity that we will also play, in a certain way, in control, inciting. I don't think there will be any problem because this document has been supported, of course, by all ministries, but I am talking about the fact that other ministries, of course from the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, have actively participated in terms of their own proposals and their own initiatives. And most importantly, I repeat, this proposal has a budget foothold and budget guidelines for next year's budget. So, not only in the 2007 budget, but in the budget guidelines. Here, ladies and gentlemen, real and enforceable measures and activities are proposed both in the area of the economy and in the area of entrepreneurship, work, development of services and family support, financial support for the family, the health care of the mother and child, or the whole family. And I think it's extremely important that we all work together in the other part that is, in fact, relying on all these projects that the government has committed to implement. In fact, we want this project, this Programme to be actively involved by representatives of local administrations, or self-government, because this is certainly not only the problem of the Parliament, or representatives, it is not only the problem of the Croatian Government or Croatian governments in the future, but it is the problem of everyone, the local community and how truly everyone will be involved in the implementation of this programme. Or if it turns on, we will certainly have relatively fast results. As far as the results are concerned, I would say something else that shows that we have succeeded in this negative trend, in the sense that every year fewer children are born, however, managed to stop. Here is the information that some 39,000 children were born in 2003, and 2005. 43. So this is the data that gives some light at the end of the tunnel, showing that something is still going on. Here I see today in the paper, it's written about difficulties in Split's maternity home. That women lie two in one bed. Of course, that's terrible, but thank God the birthplace is being built, new in Split. However, it also shows that more children are simply born. It is, it is good news and quite certain that this population policy puts wind in the back of all these efforts that this trend wants to reverse. Now I'm going to move on to quite concrete measures. I'm not going to talk to you about principles because, of course, it's quite clear to everyone that this population policy is based primarily on gender equality principles, new awareness of family needs and challenges. The fact that the family really has to return to the place that belongs to it in society, according to the Constitution, and to all documents. Therefore, the central place is because the Constitution makes it very clear that families, or children, or young people, must have full support and protection of the state. I would rather immediately take concrete measures that enter into force on 1 January 2007 and which have the support in the budget that you have received, that is, to discuss next week. First of all, I would like to highlight the system of family support, ladies and gentlemen, because this system strengthens the family in raising children. We have come from birth benefits, but also from helping the newborn, or newborns, that is, every mother, or every child, or every family at birth, and now we have tied them to the budget base for the first time. How, of course, the budgetary base to be determined by the Budgetary Law will grow and the minimum amount of birth benefits will grow, but the amount of this amount for equipment for newborns will also be increased. Therefore, the minimum amount of birth benefits from 1 January 2007 will be 50% of the budget base. What I also want to point out is that here after 12 years of age, so 12 years, the amount for the child's equipment is increasing. This amount is also linked to the budgetary base. It's 70% of the budget base and it's going to be slightly larger than 2 grand 330 kuna. You'll get the exact amounts when you get on the tables of the Budget Implementation Act because you've got it, that's it. So, therefore, everything we have predicted and what we have attached to the budget base is clearly visible already in the Budget Implementation Act. So I think it's very good that here's what happened that the debate on the National Population Policy is actually going right before the debate on the state budget, so you can very clearly verify that the measures that are going, or which take effect from 1 January 2007, have a foothold, have the money provided for their implementation. The same thing that I want to point out in a special way from this project is an allowance for children. The 2007 allowance, therefore, since January 1st, changes in this sense that income censorship as a condition for obtaining allowances from the current 40% rises to 50% of the budget base. Instead of the two so far, three income classes are introduced. The lowest amount of surcharge will be about 200 kuna, the highest around 300, and what I want to specifically warn you about is that in this project, that is, in this programme that we propose to introduce you for the first time, and one institute that we have called the ultimate supplement for every third and fourth child in the family. The progeny supplement is a measure on which they specifically insisted on the demographs I mentioned, which were members, i.e. still members of the Council on Population Policy. It's something that's produced results elsewhere in Europe, and I think it's extremely important because it's about the next one. So, every third and fourth child in the family along with their so-called The regular allowance for children will be paid, which belongs to the incomecensus, and will also be given this innovative supplement. For example, if the total income of the family is such that, for example, Each child should receive an extra of 200 kuna, so they will all receive 200 each, and on behalf of the third and fourth, they will also receive an innovative 500 kuna supplement, which will total 700 kuna for the third and fourth children, and for the rest of the 200, if that is, of course, the allowance belonging to that family. This is certainly something that will primarily include a new number of children, so that the most intelligent supplement will have the right to our calculations at this time about 50,000 children, and precisely thanks to changes in income censorship, another 50,000 children will be more covered by a total allowance for children. I'll tell you right away because I've mentioned a lot of budgets about how it looks in the budget. In view of the implementation of the child allowances positions in this year 2006, the total allocation appropriations will be increased by 325 million in 2007, and for maternity benefits of around 165 million kuna. Of course, I'm only talking about millions of kunas, of course, that according to the changes, because in this area when it comes to extras, and especially when it comes to maternity benefits, it's hard to plan it quite precisely, here's what these three years of experience say, but if it's necessary to add quite certain that we're going to find ways to possibly rebalance those funds and increase. So these are what changes are in next year's biggest changes. There are others, of course, I'll just try to count what seems most important to me. Let's say by making a family-friendly legislation, and in this business, of course, we've been actually making this project, or this national population policy since the beginning. Contributions to pension insurance for use, i.e. during use of maternity and parental leave, will be increased. Then more equal behaviour of both parents and fathers will be made possible, but as I said earlier, we will seek to include more local and regional, or regional self-government, from which we certainly expect greater participation in providing support to the family so that different reliefs and employers who, for example, will pay this one-off fee or another form of family compensation, namely for mothers with more children or for each child born, will depend on which model the employer will determine, will have immediately in the system, the tax system of a certain relief, such a relief, of course, for units of local, or regional self-government because we believe that in this way we can move things yearly towards the ultimate goal, and this is a significant turning of this catastrophic negative trend in Croatia. Also in the tax system, we foresee an increase in personal deductions for the first-born child, an increase in the amount of tax reliefs for the maintenance of housing, a relief for paid interest on household loans, tax relief from paid rent, then relief for child care services in the house, tax exemptions for employers, local, regional (regional) self-government, the introduction of also privileged rates of value added tax, on children's clothing, shoes, equipment, food and hygiene products in accordance with European Union regulations. So here we have agreed that all these provisions relating to these reliefs, i.e. the preferential value added tax rates, are in line with the provisions of the European Union because we think that this is the only logical and only fair and ultimately possible because we are the country preparing to join the European Union. There is also a lot of time, that is, a lot of time in the works anyway, but the places now in this document are foreseen for what we call the synchronization of family and business life. This provides for subsidizing contributions for parents who care for children, or children, and for example, is part - time. The deadline for implementation of this measure is 2007-2009. Afterwards to encourage employers for different forms of parent employment, the start of implementation of this measure is already in the following year, increased protection of unemployed parents with special needs, the deadline for implementation is also next year, i.e. 2008, an increase in the amount of unemployment-free parent benefits, which may be achieved during unemployment, also in 2007 and 2008, strengthening inspection work towards the protection of workers' rights to work in accordance with the law and collective contract, insurance of compensation to the employer for the retraining of parents' employees after returning to work after the use of maternity, or parental leave, then certainly making new pre-school standards for working in two shifts, the deadline for implementation is next year, i.e. 2008 I already said free textbooks. It's the 2007 deadline. Extended stay for children of primary school students also 2007/2008. A year. It is clear that a special place here is the entire large project of a controlled system outside the institution's care for children of child and preschool age. Also the deadline of the following year, i.e. until 2009. Institutional care of preschool children, preschool institutions, I mentioned a lot of cities, municipalities, counties. Of course, we expect the support or participation of cities, municipalities, counties because I think it is unacceptable to talk about the same things over and over again. There is a lack of kindergarten, working hours of kindergarten unadjusted to families where both parents work, where mothers, of course, want to have children and family, they want to have a career. Thus, things must change completely from next year, or should be immediately. For example, in Zagreb, we are constantly talking about a thousand 600, a thousand 700 children on waiting lists. So these are those kids whose parents have nowhere to go with kids and want to go to kindergartens, they can't put them. Of course, there are other cities like that, but I think that in that sense things simply have to be made different that they have to be priorities. We anticipate, of course, the support of family assistance services. Then the establishment of a non-profit foundation called "Croatia for Children". The purpose of this foundation would be to raise funds that will co-finance a number of programmes such as summers, excursions, meetings, scholarships of gifted children etc. Of course, in the sense that they are empowering, above all, those families who cannot do so with their own strengths. The deadline in which we will start to implement this measure is of course next year 2007. A special place in this document has the health care of mothers and children. Different measures are provided for to reduce the number of temporarily born children and children of low birth weight. The deadline for implementation of this measure is next year. Then preventive measures that contribute to reducing the number of violent deaths and disability of children and young people. Ensuring uniform peritative care throughout the country, implementing a maternity program – a friend of children. The deadline for this is also next year. Better quality care for mothers and children. Founding of the Center for Family Planning and Reproductive Health. Family counselling centres, or family centers, with which we have already begun. Certainly a better connection between experts working in this area. We have dedicated one part of this document and what is called in fact in all the documents is the sensitization and information that, of course, we should constantly sensitize all of us, the whole society, the whole public, the media, that in this media play a big role. I don't think I have to mention that specifically. Sensitive that the child is welcome, that the family is important, that the family is at the center, that the family must be at the centre of attention, that the family is the place where we learn everything in life. Everything else is still less important. What is most important in relation to humans, even to ourselves, we learn about the family that we have not learned and it is called respect, self - respect, love, if we have not learned in the family, we will hardly learn in life. But of course, that's why the family needs to be strengthened, it needs to be supported, and I think the measures provided for in this document guarantee it. Here we planned, among other things, the establishment of the Institute for Demographic Research so that demographic research or monitoring from day to day, from month to month, year to year will be something that will also be uninterrupted at the centre of the government's attention, every government of the future and every convocation of the Croatian Parliament. Here's the ladies and gentlemen. This would be the most important thing that I would point out as the values of this document that I repeat was done within the Council for Population Policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia by experts. These are the measures many have produced. I repeat, somewhere else, these are not measures that would mean inventing hot water, but these are measures that have a foothold in science but they have a foothold on the other hand in the reality of Croatia and I also repeat in the budget but also in the guidelines of the budget for the next three years. Finally, I would like to note that the Council for Population Policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of the Family, the defenders and intergenerational solidarity are in charge of continuing monitoring the implementation of measures in this national population policy, harmonising the work of all business holders. I would also like to finally say that according to this programme of our unit of local and regional self-government are obliged to establish competent services for the implementation of population policy within a year. So they are also required when you and I believe you will accept this document with a large number of votes, so it will be mandatory. I think it is particularly important that local administration units or regional (regional) self-government implement these measures and establish services that will be monitored by national population policy. Here's the ladies and gentlemen. Time is slowly near the end I had to give you the most important clues from this document. I thank you for your attention. I ask you once again to study everything that the Government proposes in this document, which is certainly one of the most important documents for Croatia's future and, with a desire to accept it, I also want this to be a fruitful debate in which another good proposal may be put forward. If that's the case, the government will, of course, gladly accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75594	Thank you. The committees! The Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health. Dear representative, rapporteur Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75595	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Honored vice presidents with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health at the 62nd meeting of the Committee held on 15 November 2006 discussed the National Population Policy Proposal submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 28 September 2006. The Committee discussed the proposal as an interested working body in accordance with Article 140. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The opening argument was tabled by the applicant's representative. The Committee members agreed that this was an extremely important document for the development of the country and its strategic objectives. The measures proposed in this national population policy were agreed by all the social partners involved in its adoption, which in the opinion of the Committee members contributed to the quality of the document. As highlighted in the discussion, the family is most important for the development of the child, so it is necessary to take all the measures envisaged in the family support system. With this in mind, it would be helpful to consider the justification for the child’s allowance with the income achieved in the family. Therefore, the application of the property census is especially taken into account that it is free of charge for compulsory schooling. National population policy depends largely on the country's economic development. In this respect, it is also necessary to develop an immigration policy in order to address the problem of labour deficits and the adverse age structure of the population better and faster. As well as rural areas as a result of migration movements remain abandoned, attention should be paid to encouraging measures that will lead to the development of manufacturing and service companies, family economies, and crafts and craft workshops. One of the important areas of action of population policy is the health care of mothers and children. In ensuring quality health care for mothers and children should be taken into account in recent years, there should be a lack of specialist doctors and nurses, as warned by the Croatian Medical Chamber on several occasions. After the debate, the members of the Committee are, by a single vote, abstentioned to propose to the Croatian Parliament for adoption of the following conclusion: a national population policy is being adopted in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75596	Thank you. Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, Chairman of the Committee, Honored Representative Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75597	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Committee considered the proposed national population policy as an interested working body. The Committee members concluded that it was an extremely important document to identify the country's strategic objectives in one of the most sensitive segments of its future development. It stressed that the issue of demographic development and population policy is very complex and that it seeks to include not only demographic experts, but also a whole series of other branches of science, but also the general public. When it comes to the proposed document, it is said that only demographic experts have worked on it, which is a unilateral approach that should remove the opening of a wider work, which should remove the opening of a wider public debate on which the document is a good relationship. In this way, some important areas that have not been elaborated in this document would also be covered. The following views, proposals and opinions were presented in this regard. It is estimated that the demographic deficit and the distortion of the age structure of the population in the Republic of Croatia are to the extent that the set objectives of demographic recovery cannot be achieved only by encouraging birth, i.e. with measures that aim at a significant increase in the birth rate must certainly be designed and a consistent policy of the external inflow of the population, which is the reality that the most developed European countries have also accepted, once they have seen that, with all the incentives of birth, they are not able to address the problem of labour deficits and affected age structures of the population. In the debate is as the most recent example of the mentioned experience of Sweden which is... Exceptionally high investments in the increase in birth rate have been made, although quite noticeable, but insufficient shifts have finally had to be defined for planning policy and migration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since it is a document defining national population policy for many years, it has been pointed out that its serious lack is precisely the indeterminateness of the concept of immigration policy that will be imposed entirely safely in accession negotiations with the European Union, which includes a corresponding asylum policy in which years there is no significant shift as well as a more flexible policy of naturalisation of many individuals born in Croatia or working in Croatia for decades, and they are unable to address the problem of obtaining Croatian citizenship. It also noted that there is a great lack of the proposed document, which has nothing to do with the return of the war displaced population, which should be treated with the rest as one of the essential elements of population policy. The active return policy advocated by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in particular by creating conditions for the return of the younger population, should contribute significantly to the demographic recovery, bearing in mind that it is the population that can be most easily integrated into Croatian society because of its commitment to the Republic of Croatia. It is pointed out in particular that there is too little emphasis on the importance of active population policy and, as part of this immigration policy for the future and sustainability of the pension system. We're gonna lose our pensions, gentlemen. The fact is, you see how little it says now. The fact is that in Croatia as well as in many other European countries, there is a trend in ageing population, which in terms of the pension system means that more and more those entering the older retirement age, and fewer who are filling pension funds with their work and paying contributions. Because of the deep distortion of age structure, the aging process is much faster than the possibility that even the most expensive measures to promote birthivity should be restored in a timely manner by the working contingent of the population. In view of this necessity, the intended immigration policy must be seen in this respect without delay for all European countries. The proposed national population policy strategy does not propose a concrete solution to this problem, which is already present and will be increasingly pronounced each year to measures that will question the sustainability of any pension system. It is stressed that almost all relevant European research indicates that in all European countries, the family is in the first position. In view of the fact that more than 90% of children in Croatia are born in marriage, and in order to maintain all the positive traditions of Croatian society when it comes to the measures of the most innovative policy, it is necessary to analyse all the problems faced by the institution of marriage under new circumstances and also means measures that will revitalise and strengthen... the threat, insecurity of employment, the negative attitude towards women and mothers as employees create a sense of uncertainty and mistrust in the institutions of the system and delay the marriage of young people of a fertilised age, which has direct consequences for the reduction of birth. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These barriers need to be removed, both by pushing against all forms of discrimination and by building infrastructure, mangers, kindergartens, schools and others, and by taking other measures that will make it easier for families to care for children, as well as for employers to remove suspicion that parents and especially mothers with children pose a problem. Or they're less reliable employees. Finally, taking into account all of the above, the Committee members pointed out that even after the adoption of the Croatian Assembly, the proposed population policy strategy will require continued questioning and development to achieve the objectives set for the revitalisation of the population in the Republic of Croatia. It is therefore assessed necessary to inform the Parliament of the implementation of this project by a regular annual report of the Government. In this regard, the Government should be bound either by a special conclusion of the Assembly or by Chapter V, in point 7 and should finally add the words "And the Government will report to the Croatian Parliament by 30 June each year". After the debate was held, the Committee voted by a majority of votes, 5 votes to, 2 against, 1 abstentions decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: National population policy and remarks, proposals, opinions presented in the debate are being delivered to the applicant. The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to submit once a year a report to the Croatian Parliament on the implementation of the measures set out in the National Population Policy. Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75598	Thank you. Nothing, nothing. Thank you, Mr. President of the Committee. On behalf of the Committee on Immigration, Ms. President Babić-Petricevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75599	Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Immigration at the 25th session held on 19 October this year discussed the National Population Policy Proposal submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee considered the National Population Policy Proposal as an interested working body. Introducing the applicant's representative to the basic principles of the National Population Policy, objectives, measures, holders, implementation deadlines, activities, indicators of implementation of the objectives outlined. When making population policy, the proponent for example had a population policy for some European countries. She detailed the system of family support, noting ultimately the measures to sensitise and inform the public about the objectives of population policy, which is very important. The Committee president said we do not have statistics on emigrants from the Republic of Croatia and immigrants in the Republic of Croatia. Population policy measures must also include the return of Croatian emigrants and the immigration of their descendants because the return of immigrants and the immigration of their descendants will contribute significantly to the demographic and economic recovery of Croatia. The return of emigrants and the immigration of their descendants is desirable because their integration into Croatian society is faster. For years, there has been speculation as to how many Croats could be returnees and immigrants, and no one has made any projections of what number could really be expected. This information would be very important for the development of Croatia's immigration and population policy without which no demographic or desired economic development of this country is possible. In a further discussion, the board members stressed that population policy is one of the most important issues for the Republic of Croatia. In order for the results of the migration and return to become positive, it must be pointed to the following. Increase the ability to learn Croatian language and national subjects through Croatian supplementary abroad. Set a special quota for enrolment in the colleges of returnees. Increase the budget item at the foreign ministry for the scholarships of returnees' poor students. Shorten the request for admission to Croatian citizenship. Amendments to the Law on Foreigners, Article 2 and finally, are necessary to adopt a National Policy Strategy towards Croats outside the country and Croatia to a national minority in European countries. The bureaucratic obstruction makes it difficult for Croatian emigrants and their descendants to return and when they do not ask the Republic of Croatia for any funds. For example, when seeking nostration of diplomas, enrolment in schools and colleges children of returnees and immigrants still have problems. To resolve requests for admission to Croatian citizenship Croatian emigrants and their descendants are waiting for two years. Because of the announcement of Croatian military professionalisation in Croatia, many avoid serving military obligations, unfortunately, they decide to serve civil military obligations. Croatian citizens abroad, military bonds, most of them for legitimate reasons do not respond to the call and for 3 reasons so far, solutions have been sent to take away 2 thousand 659 Croatian travel documents. It's not an incentive to go back. The impediment to the return of evicted families is certainly destroyed in the war, not restored, by the houses of Croats who have a place of residence in the Republic of Croatia while staying abroad. During the Homeland War, they were not in Croatia, but they helped and participated in the defence of Croatia. After the debate was held, the members of the Committee concluded that national population policy was proposed to the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75600	Thank you, dear colleague. My colleagues and colleagues, we're moving on to a club debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, dear colleague Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75601	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected vice presidents with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community club discussed the National Population Policy Proposal. Experts have been warning for years that the process of the depopulation of Croatia has lasted for centuries and has been caused by many reasons, and most of all by eviction, wars and frequent changes in the social political circumstances that Croatia has been going through. The natural movement of the population is the result of birth and death. In today's Croatia's areas, higher birth mortality was 10 years, from 1991 to 2000, and continued in the first years of the 21st century. It's about worrying demographic processes, accelerated spontaneous emigration, depopulations of certain areas, with a tendency of demographic extinction, an increase in life age, an increasing number of women born. For example, early in the 20th century, between 25 and 29 years of age, women had a second or third child and were born at the end of the 20th century only the first child. At the center of a political event, this government has primarily placed the family emphasising motherhood in this family and that the majority of children in the family mean wealth. The Government Programme has identified priorities in the area of violence against women, gender equality, reproductive health, family and population policies during the term of office from 2003 to 2007. In February 2004, it was founded on a proposal from the Government of the Union for Population Policy made by experts, demographers, doctors, representatives of the Church, trade unions, employers' associations, NGOs promoting parenting and childcare. Of all of them, we heard the best on boards and in the public because this process of building on a proposal from the national population policy has been included from the very beginning. We were able to recognise the national population policy in part in the national programme of demographic development and national family policy, but for the first time we have an official proposal for a national population policy aimed at rejuvenation and the numerical increase of the population in the Republic of Croatia, so the struggle of the epidemic we call "white plague". According to the latest census, the Republic of Croatia has 4 million 437 thousand 460 inhabitants or 78.4 per square kilometer with unequal indisplacement. According to the 2001 census, the Croatian population went into deep demographic age. The proportion of young people up to 14 years of age in the total population fell to only 17%. The population is on average 39.7 years old. The share over 65 is 15%. In Croatia, as we heard in 2050, we will be 860 thousand less compared to the beginning of the 21st century. We often hear that this document is a pre-election campaign. However, let us remind ourselves that in the first year of the term of office, this government increased the birth benefits of a thousand to two thousand kuna depending on the basis for calculating the birth benefits of three average salaries prior to the use of mandatory maternity leave. Birth leave for twins, third and every next child is extended from two to three years. For unemployed mothers, the mother who gave birth to the first and second children are entitled to a maternity benefit of between a thousand and the first year of a child’s life. The mother who gave birth to twins, the third and the next child, has the right to a maternity benefit of between 1,000 kuna and the third year of the child’s life. And now that we look at it in 2003, 39 thousand 668 children were born, and 40 thousand 307 children were born in 2004 and 2005. 43,000 live births. Therefore, the comparative indicator for 2004 and 2005 shows that the number of births is on the rise, which can also be attributed to the direct measures of the population policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which are viewed through maternity leave and maternity benefits. An important place in the national population policy is taking up the family support system. Since 1 January 2007, the birth benefits will be linked to a budget base now amounting to 3000 326 kuna. The lowest fee will be 50% of the budget base, so a thousand, 662 kuna. With the growth of the budget base, the amount of compensation will grow. Three income classes shall be introduced to determine the monthly amount of allowances per child. Depending on income per household member, the minimum amount of allowances would be around 200 kuna and the highest of 300 kuna and would be changed depending on changing the budget base. For each third and fourth-born child, child benefit is introduced the optimal supplement of 500 kuna and thus best to show that the family with four children gets four times 200 kuna for four and four children, for the third and fourth children receive two times 500 kuna supplements, totaling a thousand and 800 kuna. After twelve years, single aid for newborn equipment is also increasing, which will be 70% of the budget base. So far, it's been 1,000 326 kunas and now about 2,000 330 kuna. Next year, all primary school students and first grade students will receive free textbooks. The new population policy will ensure a more flexible use of maternity leave in accordance with European standards. The fathers will go on maternity leave. Today's maternity leave benefits less than 1% of fathers. National population policy measures bring more flexible working hours, the ability to work at home by harmonising family and business life. National population policy also provides for tax reliefs, an example for investment maintenance of housing, tax reliefs for employers who, at the time of birth, provide once-in-a-lifetime financial support to their employees, provide for the introduction of preferential tax rates on additional value, children's clothing, footwear, food, equipment, hygiene supplies, etc. The goal is to create assumptions for solving housing problems. About 10% of women with children are resident status and about 35% of subjects live with parents. Subjects living in their own apartment have the largest number of children and of course tenants at least. There is a difference between the desired and the number of children born. The desired number is 2.7 and is really born 1.28. In subjects with the highest education in the system of values, children were relatively high-ranking. It is a special place to bring family and business life into line, which we discussed together on the position of women in the labour market in the National Strategy on Gender Equality. National policy obliges the competent authorities of the state administration and public institutions to take care of children through long-term insurance, opening up family assistance services, etc. A special place takes care of the mother and child and stops the pregnancy. In 2004, 10 thousand 288 pregnancy interruptions were reported, which is 6.5% decline compared to the previous year. The importance of health care is also the delivery period. 245 infants died in the Republic of Croatia in 2004, or 6.1 promila. Fortunately, it is also explained by the pathological condition associated with pregnancy, childbirth and congenital anomalies. It's a worrying decline in the number of pediatricians. In primary health care in 2004, there were 260 pediatricians, in 2002, 272. If this continues for five years, only 50% of children would be concerned by pediatricians. Also today, the Croatian Medical Chamber warns that there are a hundred pediatricians missing right now, so a hundred specialists from a pediatrician. This national population policy shall provide an analysis of the situation, objectives, concrete measures, holders of measures, time limits of implementation of individual activities, as well as indicators of implementation of each individual measure. The budget provides funds for next year, for example 165 million kuna for maternity benefits, 325 for children's allowance, 240 million kuna for free textbooks. The HDZ Club warns of a time when the population is more evicted from 20th to 40th, so the most productive and creative population. New generations remain outside the borders, one evicted Croatia. Between 1991 and 1998, there were 130,000 evicted people from the Republic of Croatia. This increased the number of Croatian citizens working or staying abroad from 285,000 to about 415 thousand in 1998. We believe that by entering the European Union, this policy will probably have to be complemented by immigration policy or immigration policy. In the end, for all of us, the goal is to stop the negative growth of the population, and we believe that this national population policy in this House will be unanimously accepted. Because as the Deputy Prime Minister said, it is indeed a political, strategic, economic and national issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75602	Thank you. On behalf of the HSP Club, a respected colleague, Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75603	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. The position of the Croatian Party Club is the right that the issue of population policy cannot or should not be the subject of political bickering. The situation is more than bad, and the situation is too serious and worrying. There's no improvement in the state without an increase in birth rate, no so-called baby boom-a. In order to increase the birth rate, every population policy should contain the following measures: the first situation for youth is important. We need to enable young people to study in all places in Croatia. Schooling whether children are workers, tycoon, defender, pensioners. And that's where we need to see where and how, how do we do it right now? Very bad. The second situation is very important. When a young man graduates from school, they must be allowed employment. So the youth should be allowed employment, and I'll remind you that the youth of the first job waits from 3 to 5 years. It's an average, but the first job gets at a certain time. And that means after that you get fired. We also know that all young women employers ask themselves whether they intend to give birth or when they intend to give birth and normally use leave belonging to maternity or maternity leave. And by the mahogany of that young woman means pregnant women, births are subject to chicaning and are given regular job leave because of situations. All contracts are concluded for a certain period of time. And that country didn't turn out so well. In order for young people to make up their minds, it means getting married, and we know what the situation is. Afterwards, the state must enable them to take measures to address housing issues properly. Then the young people will be ready to go after the children. To, it means to increase the birth rate because they have to have a chance. Don't laugh, pal, it's a solution from a normal solution, and it's funny for you. Normally because you don't care about a youth who's unemployed, about a youth who can't get a job, about a youth who can't solve a housing issue that's funny to you. But if we continue to laugh like this, it will not be Croatia with the Croats. That'll be your situation. You won't be Croatian. It will be Croatia, but the Croats will not live in it. So don't laugh. This is a very serious topic. Now that you've been in town, too, and you've been doing business, what does it matter after this part? Building mangers, kindergartens and schools. Here's the City of Zagreb saying it gives the most on this part. He normally gives when he has the highest budget, but he doesn't build kindergartens. There's no building schools. One school and kindergarten in the city of Zagreb cost you... 20 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And how much with 200 million kunas can be made, say, 10 schools and 10 kindergartens a year. Therefore, what the Deputy Prime Minister said, the issue of population policy is not only a question of where the state must give its share but also of cities and counties and municipalities. But, of course, there's a lot of things that need to be done to make cities and districts and municipalities do anything at all because we know what the situation is about budgets. What is the order of the budget of municipal, city, county? Somewhere it is about 14 billion kunas in total when viewed and only the city of Zagreb is lost by 7 billion kuna. So if they are, these are the most important preconditions for us to be able to say that tomorrow we will have the right population policy in Croatia, but to do so means the most important thing is to do with all this and the economic strategy. There is no new employment without a real and effective economic strategy. Because the very fact that we've been in the last few years, it's just that 14,000 new jobs have been opened talking about the seriousness of the situation. And maybe this budget will take the next one, but a budget of 108 billion that hasn't even been passed yet. That's what I tell my colleague, she says everything's secure. It hasn't been secured yet, because the budget hasn't been passed yet. So this population policy is built on what is contained in the budget, the budget will be passed. But what kind of population policy is it going to be when we sell it all out? Then where will we have the means to create? Because we don't create a new value. We must be aware that our gross domestic product is growing on the basis of credit and foreign debt. But we do not create a new value that enables employment as such and that this trend of social product growth becomes stable and that can be upgraded as such. Because it is a very serious situation because at this point, Croatia is a debt, interest and card debt if taken. Croatia owes, is in charge, citizens mean the state everything else, and normally that citizens are part of the state 50 billion dollars. If this trend continues according to economic analysts' estimates, Croatia will be in charge of $146 billion in 2016. And if we don't make an economic strategy, if we don't allow new employment, all of this will be just a wish plan for you, but unfortunately without being able to achieve it, and that's probably how we all here want to have a population policy that gives a future to this country, that we have a youth that can be educated, that will be able to work, that will be employed, that we don't have a mole that will be the subject of the chicanization of employers and everything else. Therefore, for us at the Croatian Party Club, these are the fundamental criteria for real population policy, and that can be funny to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75604	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. Correction of the incorrect quote by counterpart Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75605	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting the incorrect quote of my colleagues Kovacevic when he began to list what we first need to start and then he said first we should educate the youth and he listed it in order. I think we need to have a mole first to have someone to educate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75606	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. It's next, dear colleague Milorad Pupovac, on behalf of the SDSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75607	Mr. Vice President, ladies of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. I would like at least 50% of the Parliament's composition that we had here yesterday on immunity policy to discuss population policy, but obviously this Parliament has no adequate awareness of the relevance of population policy in a way that has some other issues such as immunity policy. And it's kind of worrying. And now allow me something that I used to say at the club, on the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of the National Communities about this national population policy proposal. First of all, this is an extremely important topic for Croatia, and I don't think any of us here have any doubts. Therefore, what population policy we will have in years and decades ahead of us, and for Croatia, of great importance, I don't think anyone here is in doubt. However, what we certainly need to question is what is listed here as a way of achieving this general goal, which is rejuvenation of the Croatian population and the numerical increase of the Croatian population. It states here that we will achieve this through four mechanisms, in four ways. First, by increasing the birth rate, which means creating obligations for the nation’s birth, or maternity capacity, and by creating the nation’s birth potential. Secondly, by avoiding the concentration of the population in large centres such as Zagreb, Split, Rijeka, Osijek and other smaller centres and the development of smaller urban settlements, which are as notable with the right in the natural sense of the word more progressive than large urban centres. The third is to encourage the return of the Croatian population as the most desirable source of immigration flows and the fourth is to encourage a more balanced distribution of the population and demographic development through the spatial redistribution of the population for the purpose of its more balanced development. All four of these goals besides demanding exceptional economic efforts on the other hand require some kind of a different approach. It is not a question of Croatia's urban development either, we support. We are prepared to do everything possible to develop an adequate strategy together with the Government, nor is it a disputed incentive for balanced population deployment. But what is controversial is the transformation of the nation, which means the female part of the population in the maternity population, and it is controversial to define what is the most desirable immigration source. For a nation that is on the verge of European integration. That kind of language is xenophobic, so I don't say anything else. It reminds me very much of something I'm arguing about these days, which is legends for a museum, and I'm not going to name it as being deported members of races like Jews and Roma and less desirable peoples in parentheses like Serbs. And now it's said here that we have the most desirable source, which means that those other people who come if we have to accept them aren't very desirable, but by force we take them. That language please change. I believe you didn't mean to, but that's what it sounds like. That's what it sounds like. Now allow me first about parenting and turning the nation into a parenting nation that's not enough for a modern population policy, definitely and cannot be done without the question of those concerned. Children must be expected, children must be loved. Most of us, again, will return to the debate on immunity policy yesterday, most of us have a chance to make a decision in life about whether or not they're going to bring someone into the world. A small number of us have the privilege of deciding who will leave this world. Yesterday, it was as if no one had thought of it. Who has this right based on God's will, by law? And today we're discussing here that we should have an important part of our population, a female, and probably a male race, ask how much, what can and how can it bring into the world. By birth? Perceiving? Or a third measure? And we're starting to assume that we have to have a baby. Why do we have to give birth? We need to reproduce, we need to do it for passion, we need to do it for love. Here, unfortunately, no one here thinks how much we have in our country, how much love we really have, how much we really have passion for it, and how much we really have assumptions that young people become parents. But as I remember when I was a fresh representative in this House, when another minister was making a proposal for a population renewal then it went to this component, these two were not yet Wednesday. These two rational, justifiable ones I quoted at the beginning, than this one, the more you give birth to another desirable population. You know, a friend of mine and a fellow sociologist told me an anecdote when Bismarck, a German Keiser, brought in a young woman, in a number of things, a cloned woman and asked him if it was the right decision to take her life because of inappropriate, inappropriate and cloned forms of behavior towards the evaluation of his honorable officers. Then he asked, and can she still have a baby? And then they told him, so he can. Then let him live. Not that we would want our nation to be aware of how much it can contribute to Croatia by being able to give birth? Secondly, Croatia was 91 to 95, even after that it was a country that lost its population much more than it had received. And for ethnically motivated reasons and for politically motivated reasons. Nowhere, ladies and gentlemen, in this text does it say that the return of refugees is one of the sources of population policy of the Republic of Croatia. If that doesn't stand, isn't it in a conflict with the government's commitment that refugee returns and refugee return policies consider one of their foundations in eliminating the war's consequences? Is it not that 300 and a few thousand people who are, and probably more, if all were to be summed up, who have scattered across neighbouring countries or around the world are also worth treating as a source of population policy? And instead we say there are desirable parts and we say, we need more birth. And don't think I'm saying it because I care about one part of the refugee population. I care, but I don't care so much that I would like to forget what the national interest of this country is, and that is the question of whether we can really develop Croatia that will exclude or have to divide for a population policy that will integrate. I do not see from this text whether we will be able to integrate all those people who are neither a desirable part nor a native part of Croatia, but tomorrow will knock on our door from neighbouring countries, less close countries, and even those who we assume are related to us like Romania or like Kosovo. Are we able to integrate these people? Are we able to create a nation the way Europe is creating today? And those who are black and those who are yellow and those who are white and those who are different races, but are Germans and French with all open questions in this regard. And can we create a population policy without adequate immigration policy? We can't. We can't. This paper looks like it was written in '91, '92. So someone doesn't get me wrong. In a kind of enthusiasm, in a kind of understanding that had bad consequences, but now I'm not going to characterize them. But why don't we be a nation that is able to integrate people and turn them into what we call political, social and any other Croatianism. Well, it should be done with minorities who are here, especially those who will have the opportunity to integrate within a few years or maybe a few decades. Look, if this was written to be the Family Encouragement and Youth Encouragement Act, I would understand that if it were a good approach. Maybe a little limited, but a good one. However, understanding population policy alone is unfortunately not enough. Therefore, since I believe in the strong integration capacity of the Croatian nation, I cannot understand this paper as something he believes in. I do, but this paper doesn't believe. This paper has no integrational power, this paper has exclusive force, it excludes people instead of integrating them, if I may say so. And as for that, you know, I'll end up with this. That's what I said in some other place to other people. Nations that only refer to ethnic criteria as a key source of their strength and who want their diaspora at times when all other nations want to strengthen their diaspora and see the weak foreign national states. And they want to make over their elements that have remained out so that they are a little weak from thousands or 2,000 people want to make them a strong component in the future European perspectives. We Croats think it is better for Croats to retire to Croatia instead of staying where they can be an important and strong support for the Croatian nation and the Croatian people. I don't want to talk about other elements. Well, maybe I said something funny, but I didn't say it in a bad way. And please don't mind me saying that, because my understanding is that we don't have enough of these sources and their capacities to do what we need to do. And that that's not enough but that we have to except for that element that nobody slows down but isn't enough, we have to develop an integration mechanism and prepare the nation to be able to accept people, so if we have to, in the most literal sense, adapt them and sometimes assimilate them if they're able to. This, unfortunately... Thank you. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75608	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Corrections to an incorrect quote. First of all, dear fellow Stengl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75609	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm correcting an incorrect quote from an esteemed colleague. Bismark wasn't a German Keiser. He was the Chancellor.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75610	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote, dear colleague Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75611	Thank you very much. Well, with all due respect and good thoughts that fellow Pupovian is, I still have some things to fix because I don't think they stand. I don't know. It's a '91 sentence. The national enthusiasm also had some negative effects. I think for the Croatian people he had quite the enthusiasm for national positive effects, but he had negative effects for our aggressors. And that's a fact and it saved us. This population program of ours, a colleague, says it shuts down. No, he doesn't talk about it at all. He was made with the aim of being as each single and every nation's natural law is a struggle for survival, each nation must fight to survive. Therefore, all measures of population policy go in that sense. And let's remind you of something. The Croatian Constitution says that we are the country of the Croatian people, that is, the national state of the Croatian people. Therefore, as long as we do so, we must act like one, and we must not forget it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75612	And he adds to all the citizens who live therein. Correction of an incorrect quote, a respected colleague of Arabovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75613	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would correct the incorrect allegations of Mr. MPs when he said that we Croats at all costs are trying to return our diaspora to Croatia and that it would be better to stay in the diaspora. Mr. Representative, we're not trying at all. We're just trying to satisfy their wishes to get back from where they went. There's nothing else this government is trying to do, or any other government. To enable them to meet those desires that they surely have for over 50 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75614	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. Dear colleague Ljubica Lalic, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75615	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. So each country needs to worry about developing and restoring its population because it is a guarantee of its own sustainability. The general good, therefore good for all citizens of a single country as a fundamental prerequisite for development and reconstruction should aim at all policies and social and economic and housing and education, tax, etc. The purpose and purpose of the adoption of each law must be general good. the company's legislative authority, acting in accordance with that fundamental objective, shall ensure that the population is restored regardless of whether it has an official national population policy. As too often forgets, the goal stemming from the natural law and the purpose of the government as a service to its people is also a formalised national population policy. And for this reason, this Assembly adopted the National Policy of Demographic Development in 1995, and in 2003, the National Family Policy. Today in 2006 when we look at what these good policies have done, which are positive shifts made then we will see that very little has been carried out, and there are almost no positive shifts. Our society is still old. There are growing emigrations towards large cities, more and more young educated experts after schooling goes abroad. Since 1979, there has been more dying in the country and fewer births since 1999 and negative natural growth has been recorded in cities. Our villages are extinct, they're disappearing, which clearly shows us a plate in the materials. They disappear due to migration to larger centres. As a result, the larger centres record population growth, but not new births but immigration. Facing the fact that the population is getting old, reducing the number of live births, increasing the number of non-born women faced with the fact that the government instead of the adopted existing policies offers us a new national policy and, in fact, the long-standing start to move and delay for some other time. Therefore, in the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party, we see this proposal as a washing of the unclean conscience of those responsible for the negative trends that are evident from these materials. The promoter says this policy aims to rejuvenate and increase the population in the Republic of Croatia. That really should be the goal. The promoter says it will be achieved by increasing the birth rate, by achieving optimal migration patterns by stopping population concentration in large urban centres, by encouraging the return of Croatian emigrants, and by encouraging a balanced deployment of population and demographic development through the spatial redistribution of the population for the purpose of its even deployment and regional demographic development. Starting with the current fact that policies implemented from now on, we in the HSS believe that we will only achieve the acceptable objective of the National Population Policy with the important reform of policies that have been implemented, which have led to the current situation. These necessary reforms, social, economic, housing, education, tax and so other policies are not in sight, at least not for these authorities, and this means that a bunch of adopted and not implemented documents join another. The promoter says that to achieve the objective of population policy, it will encourage the development of potential centres and will direct the trend of internal migration. This means that it insists on a policy that has led to the disappearance of smaller and medium-sized settlements. The population is directed towards the central cities, and this will be achieved according to the proposer through analysis and specific plan and programme of potential central settlements by 2010. This reminds us of the policy of human migration, and it is fortunate that this measure has nothing to do with the implementation of a vast part of Croatia being uninhabited, and the goal of national policy should not be to create black holes but to allow citizens a quality life where they are and to create conditions for the restoration of the population. With this policy, all areas that today have the status of areas of special state concern, mountain and mountain areas and islands will remain uninhabited. The promoter says it will ensure that education is available to all, and this will be achieved by establishing educational infrastructure and the need to set up expert studies in the areas of potential central settlements, and by drawing up guidelines for the scholarship system and wider availability to professional studies, until 2009. Thus, the promoter does not see the need for a hasty solution to the problem of all those many elementary school students who are waiting at six o’clock in the morning for a school to go to school in tens of miles away from elementary schools. These children in the late afternoon in the rain and snow or in the countryside are waiting for a bus home. The promoter does not see the need for a hasty resolution of those elementary school children who walk for miles to go to school and not only in some remote parts of Croatia but also in the vicinity of Zagreb. The Minister of Education announces mandatory high school education without answering the question of how parents will be allowed to send their children to high school. How and where they will be paid for the monthly bus ticket, how they will buy textbooks, how they will wear them and dress them so that they will not suffer the mocking of those of their peers who compete in sneezing world-famous brands of clothing and shoes. Does the promoter know that many parents cannot provide their children with a monthly bus ticket of over 500,00 kuna per month? Officially, education is available to all today, but there are a number of reasons why this law cannot be consumed, and the main reason is the poverty of citizens. In addition to availability, the quality of education is also needed, for quality it is necessary to fit. Do you know the personnel structure of teaching staff in schools in our villages? The truth is that there are excellent teachers and teachers, but many are those who do not have the proper training. Let us secure space, where for quality basic education, we provide parents with incomes that can bear the costs of secondary education, ensure scholarships to the capable, and after completing education, enable employment and a decent life from our own work, and only then will this measure make sense and have a positive impact. Furthermore, the promoter says it will encourage and subsidise the establishment of service and production companies, family economies and other forms of employment of the working and fertilised population in the areas exposed to emigration, accelerated ageing and rarely populated areas. Yes, this measure is very necessary, but with the current economic and agrarian policy, it is only an illusion. Even more so, the existing agrarian policy creates new areas from which there are numerous evictions. These areas bear the name of areas of special state care, mountain-mounted areas, these are islands. We even have laws that give certain advantages in order to keep the population in these areas, so that new birth takes place. We have privileges, but we don't have economies in these areas. The state needed and should encourage investors for investments without which there is no economic activity, without which there is no employment, but therefore there are emigrations. Bad policy in these areas illustrates the case with a drought of vegetables and fruits in Vrpolje. Vrpolje is a municipality located in the area of special state care in County of Brod-Posavina whose gross social product is the lowest in Croatia. State intervention in 2001 is the only one in Croatia with the most modern technology in Europe. Capacity of 200 thousand tonnes of fresh vegetables and fruit guarantees farmers the market and workers a job. Because of the lack of craft, the factory cannot buy raw materials on the market, it cannot employ capacity, so it creates losses that today amount to 29 million kuna. In order to address the existing problem, the Government of the Republic of Croatia makes decisions that have never been made by reason that there is no interested strategic partner to take it. Today, when bidders who offer to invest in a dryer of more than 22 million kuna appear, the government, after finding that it is a very favourable offer that gives perspective to the factory, does not want to make a decision on the solution to the problem. So she does not want to secure the market for peasants, she does not want to give jobs to workers who are thus sentenced to migration towards a developed part of Croatia. This kind of policy is not the realisation of population policy, no matter what it's called. In order to realise the objectives of population policy, it is necessary to encourage and subsidise the establishment of family economies, according to the promoter of this population policy. Yes, for us in the Croatian peasants, the family economy is a basic unit of agricultural production and a guarantee of maintaining life in the country. Family economies need to be created, and the starting point in the process of creation is to ensure the minimum areas of agricultural land needed for income production. A privatisation process for agricultural land was launched that stopped the government in 2004. Instead of selling to create numerous family economies, the government decided to create 2% of rich farmers by concession. We are not against farmers in Croatia, but we believe that the state is obliged to create conditions of quality living with a large number of family economies and members of their families, and some of them will gradually grow into farmers. And it is precisely from this material that it is evident that there is no complete knowledge of the philosophy of the importance and essence of the family economy. In this way, by analysing each proposed measure, we will come to the realization that national policy is going one way and all other policies without which there is no realisation of population policy are going the other way. But the proposed policy does not tell us that the existing anti-population policies will change but rely exclusively on analysis and research, the development of programmes, and even until 2012. Therefore, this proposal has no assurance or indicator that would give us the right to optimistic expectations of results, but we at the Croatian Peasant Party Club are very, very abstentioned about this document.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75616	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Corrections to an incorrect quote. First honorary colleague Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75617	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a number of incorrect allegations I'd rather correct my colleague who said what was wrong if this national policy were washing a guilty conscience and that it was true that there were no positive shifts. So, colleagues. This unclean conscience washing I think it would have been before for you who were in the government when she brought in a reduction in maternity benefits and maternity leave and if you had a clean conscience when 50,000 mothers had to look for a job within thirty days. And if there was no movement, there was. It was already seen when all these things returned, increased maternity benefits and birth permits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75618	It's an insult to the Rules of Procedure. Dear colleague Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75619	So the infringement of Article 209 is because the agent can correct the incorrect assumption and my colleague corrected my exact allegations and that these were correct allegations she should have read the materials and since she was discussing on behalf of the club I really expected that the materials would be read and based on what the applicant stated in the materials if not discussed, about at least the corrections so-called. Incorrect allegations because I didn't use any data from any other sources, but from exactly what it says here.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75620	We're moving forward with the corrections of an incorrect quote. Correction of the incorrect quote by a colleague Markovinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75621	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's another one in a series of incorrect allegations, and this one. The big proposal has no credibility because it relies on analysis. And my colleague must have given her entire exposure to analysis and this program. But there's something else I wanted to say. In her pessimistic presentation, counterpart Lalic stands out. This law is the washing of the unclean conscience of those who are responsible for this situation. You should have figured out your colleagues because I think you're responsible because you're talking, the village dies and you're actually the peasant party that you're doing in that village? Except that you occasionally mobilize tractors and visit villages before elections. And you talk about how it's all black. My colleagues, you have experience. They don't like pessimists. Here's a fellow Pancretic they already love. He's an optimist. Born.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75622	I have to tell you, my colleague, you haven't corrected a single quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75623	What do you mean?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75624	No, you're not. You've made other allegations. Not correcting the allegations. Therefore, I ask you to answer the debate, and in the debate, discuss and be contrary to the views that have been made. There's no problem. My colleague Babić Petričević. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75625	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I quote a colleague named Lalic who said: "...this population policy is washing her guilty conscience." That's not true. It's never too late to say three times mea culpa so then you from the coalition government should say mea culpa today when you're talking about what's not true and what's not true. In 2001, you abolished maternity leave and maternity benefits and colleague Caparin’s 60 thousand mothers had to return to work, had neither taken care of kindergarten nor of those who would take care of their children. The family national policy measures of 2003 are being implemented and as regards the transport of students from the place of residence to the school, I am from areas of special national interest, mountain and mountainous areas and states together with our county or our county and municipal authorities keeping accounts and no child thanks to God anymore is walking as we used to walk. It never happened again. A in 2007/2008 Year Ministry of Science, Education and Sports read and listen to what is happening these days provide free transportation, free accommodation in student homes and textbooks. No matter how much you brought it back at the time I was... I'd like to congratulate you. The opposition MP would be very happy and raise her hand for the population policy that depends on the future of the Croatian state and Croatian people and all its national minorities. But, ma'am, don't always be so narrow, be broad-minded and look forward to something happening towards the future of the Croatian state, which is young families. [[- Insect: Bravo.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75626	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75627	And what happens to them if they walk? I was walking, so you can see how I am. ... Six kilometers to school, six kilometers from school. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Oh, yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And the purse was harder than I was. ... And today I brought my country three kids and four grandchildren. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, I don't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Excuse me. ... Yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Look at my legs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75628	If it wasn't for the fatigue of the material, it'd take a little break for the blowout?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75629	I do, I do.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75630	We're moving on with the debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, dear colleague Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75631	Dear Vice President, esteemed representatives of the ministry, esteemed gentlemen of MPs. I agree with all those who said this was politics... Maybe there's no more important problem in this country than this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatia will definitely import in five years and significantly import labour. [[/Intruder: That's right.]] Do it already today. This is a matter of some kind of survival of this country, not to say that there is no more important question. Extremely interesting matter, but if I didn't know these processes, maybe only one sentence would say two things about the migration processes in Croatia, because I would dare say that the population policy depends on migration policy. It may even be easier to explain even though it is harder to accept these demographic processes but should be said without Croatia having 15 thousand more immigrants every year than emigrants In a hundred years, we'll be a million and a half less than we are today. [[Intruder: Thank God.]] In fifty years, 700 thousand less and maybe ten years from now, we will face the collapse of the pension and health system unless we agree what to do with the immigration process. Someone will say so Croatia has 300,000 unemployed. We agree, it's a strong number. However, already today Croatia can employ twenty, thirty thousand people in places where some Croatian citizens will not work whether it is construction, whether it is shipbuilding, road construction, heavy industry if we have it clearly, etc. However, the Croatian position is additionally specific. Before we talk about it, we will lead to the fact that in the next ten to fifteen years, the number of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina will be between 100 and 100 thousand and that the influence of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina will be marginal. In fact, about 15,000 Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina receive Croatian citizenship every year. This will say that Zagreb, that Split, etc. vacuum Croatia or Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina. Understandably, all these 15 thousand do not come to Croatia, out of the 15 thousand they receive Croatian citizenship, but 10 thousand that because opportunities in Bosnia and Herzegovina will be all but perspective in the coming period. The press openly says that Croatia needs at least 15 thousand immigrants to maintain the population of 4 million and 300,400,000. It is increasingly said that the targeted countries are Ukraine, Romania, Bulgaria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, Kosovo, etc., that is our wish list. Demographer Jacob Gelo says that immigration cannot be a clear substitute for birth. It's just that when the average is what it is and in the foreseeable ten years with these 1,776 per family is going to be 1,1. And that is why I say that the population policy in Croatia depends largely on migration policy, and that is simply a fact. What do you do? Well, first of all, get rid of unemployment. But with this policy, I'm not going to tell the Government, but a party that's a little bit more uplifting the Church, for example, a ban on working on Sundays or where we are against anyone who would come to Croatia to invest because not a single square metre of the Holy Land can be sold, but on the other hand, 300 thousand unemployed can obviously be sold. Our funds are, I won't tell you in front of bankruptcy, but when we talk about it, I think they're quite burdened. I think it's retirement, health care. There are no relevant investments. On the whole Adriatic or on the entire Adriatic coast in the last 15 years, five new hotels have not been built, and on the other hand we think that we are economic and tourist powers instead of looking into our eyes and saying that we are economic gnomes and we could, if we had achieved this economic consensus, if we had not gone against each other, when the development of the country is literally Wednesday and attract capital and run the country. But what are we gonna do? We're not going to do anything, and that's why it's not surprising that from day to day more unemployed and that we have a growing deficit, an increasing external debt, a growing import and a growing population. I say it in such a way as to touch work permits between the lines. It says here that between 1994 and today some 10 thousand 163 work permits were issued, a thousand 500 permits a year. Now let's let go of what we're looking for and two, three ballets, three hundred, four hundred construction workers, etc. But let's let the people come to work and let's not let the laborers come to the other side, obviously that doesn't make any sense. True, perhaps after 2002 another classification of the unemployed should be carried out at the Employment Service even though I do not advocate it. Business licenses, they're the ones who, for example, invest in Croatia. It is said that 8000 840 business visas have been issued since '95. 3 thousand 417 business visas were issued until 2003 and 2005 respectively. Three thousand 451. In that status we have 3,000 376 foreign citizens, a thousand... Bosnia, 374 from Macedonia, 258 from China, are already in third place, 230 from Slovakia, 155 from Italy, 140 from Serbia-Montenegro, 107 from Germany. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm saying that five, six, seven hundred got that visa just so it could open a "turn" here to buy a little house, etc. The top thousand nine hundred, again I say probably because of the real estate is from Italy, then a thousand 105 from Austria, the Germans have a thousand 87, Chinese 545, so they have 545 companies, so it's no wonder that Croatia exports less than $100 million to China and imports over a billion dollars, Hungarians 356 and 268, British 189. I'm sure there are 189 180 of them for buying houses, Americans 132 etc. In working permits, I also think that Croatia should not create problems unlike these businesses because, for example, these 545 companies from China waste almost one billion imports. I have nothing against the Chinese, Trieste is already theirs you know, but that the state condition you import, no problem but let this country with a $10 billion surplus get the opportunity to export too. I repeat, I have nothing against anyone, I've been in excellent relations with the former Chinese ambassador, but we have to protect the Croatian market in some way because otherwise we'll be left without industry or industry. export and then the possibility of service of external debt. Someone will say that Europe defends the protection of its slaves. It's exactly what we have to get used to, but some strategic branches of shipbuilding, ironworks don't need to be questioned. ... I haven't gone off topic because I've been trying to explain to you all along that the population policy in this country depends on migration policy. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I won't talk about kindergartens, I won't talk about schools, I won't talk about bus transport, I won't talk about halls, I won't even talk about jobs, I won't talk about mountain-mounted areas, I'll say what I think is very important right now. I repeat, Croatian man. Croatia will be in a position to have to import not only labour but also the population. Demographers said before mentioning Ukraine, Bosnia, Serbia and so on. Croatia in Bosnia and Herzegovina will be aware of 100 to 150 thousand people in 10 to 15 years, which is also a tragedy for both Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina and do not prevent at last that if Istria, Rijeka does not matter, Zagreb and so on you need 300 or 500 builders to enable this import of labour as is done by Slovenians. Unfortunately, the fairy tales of the return of the emigration people are either on the same trail as the ones that are going to be introduced or that they're going to come 100 billion dollars from the outside, but here we are, the problem is huge, and that's where we really need to put our heads together. I was only talking about one problem, and I could mention this, this question that Croatia must improve among other things and the return of the refugee Serb population from 200 to 250 thousand as many as have left these premises. Or how many are still abroad. All in all since 1991, about a million and 100,000 people have been admitted to Croatian citizenship. They are mostly persons from Bosnia and Herzegovina, emigrants of Croatian origin and so on. In this context, it is important to pass several more laws, but I think I will say again, unfortunately, but Croatian population policy depends on migration policy. I didn't want to shock anyone, but just talk plainly about one segment that isn't spoken of, but that we all feel very strongly.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75632	Well, thank you, dear fellow Caine, but now you have a little correction of incorrect allegations. The first is a respected colleague, Babic-Petricevic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75633	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, colleague Cain said a series of inaccuracies. I'll only point to a few if it gets there in two minutes. It is not true that the Republic of Croatia will suck up between 10 and 15 thousand Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina each year for the benefit of Croatian citizenship. The Croatian passport in Bosnia and Herzegovina does not mean departure, but security in Bosnia and Herzegovina. They won't become marginal. They are the constituent people of the Bosnian-Herzegovina state or BiH state in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that is why the Croatian state is supporting the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina to be, to survive, to be constitutional, to be equal. And I hope that's what happens. And as for your other statements and you have repeated again in a few years in Bosnia and Herzegovina there will be 150 thousand Croats left, you must know that the Republic of Croatia under the Constitution, article 10, which I have quoted several times but I assume you have the Constitution and read the Law on Croatian Citizenship, Articles 16 and 30, allows Croatians to obtain Croatian passports. Unfortunately, this procedure takes a little while. In the hope that it will happen in a while, that it will be shorter. That Croatians from the emigrants will also enrich Croatia by their arrival, their return and their survival.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75634	Again, I must say that you've made one part of the thinking and the findings that I can stand but you haven't corrected the incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75635	I did, I did, at least the first part. At least the first part.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75636	All right, correcting.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75637	At least the first part.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75638	Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected colleague, Tomljenović. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75639	What? At least the first part. I learned that from all of you. You say and you think, so I learned.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75640	A colleague, Tomljenović, a correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75641	Dear Mr. Vice President, I will correct the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague who literally said alluding to investment and construction. He says, "The pedal of the Croatian country must not be sold." So... [[The intruders don't understand.]] It is an incorrect allegation that the country's pedal must not be sold. [[Intruder: Continue colleague.]] This is unfortunately Croatia's land and the Croatian country in terms of the conclusion of sales contracts, investment is certainly as free as any other democratic country. Of course, it must not be acquired or sold that part of the land belonging to the maritime well-being, protected, protected property, so clean coast or where space-planning documentation is not allowed to anyone. So these kind of xenophobic messages in terms of these, these allegations, you don't need to be out there.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75642	Coliica Solic also has a correction to the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75643	Thank you very much. Here I will quote Agent Caine when he said in his debate that there is growing unemployment in Croatia. That there is a growing deficit in Croatia. My colleague Cain, that's not true, because that's not what macroeconomic indicators show us because they say the opposite. On the contrary, they say the first time since Croatia is the state that has reduced unemployment for the first time. And remember, when we took power in 2003, at the end of 2003, the deficit was 6.4%. And today, at the end of 2006, it's going to be 3%. Therefore, all of your claims are incorrect and you might wish they were in this Croatia, but they certainly won't be.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75644	We're continuing the debate. Dear colleague Milanka Opačić on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75645	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Today, we have a document called the national population policy, but according to what it says inside, it could be said that it is more of a populist policy and the question of whether Croatia needs such a document or not? Since we have a problem with birth and are unfortunately extinct as a nation, we need measures to help families. But according to us, this kind of document is actually too high. In itself, it will not significantly change the position of the Croatian family. It could be said that it is a ritual document that prescribes existing laws as well as elements of previous policies. I would like to remind you that a proposal for a national programme of demographic development of the Republic of Croatia was adopted in 1995 in this Chamber. There were some measures that were not happily implemented in reality, but there were also some measures that could change the position of the Croatian family. Unfortunately, they haven't been implemented. We brought national family policy into this same home in 2003. Unfortunately, the arrival of HDZ has put everything aside and none of this has been done. We lost three years of age to improve the Croatian family's position. And so now we bring in a new document and the question is how much and how much of it will be implemented and how much it will make for our citizens. The fact is, this document could fall primarily on financial assets. In 2007, when some measures are announced, there will be financial resources because the government will have 10 billion kuna of privatisation revenue. However, in 2008, in 2009, we will no longer be able to sell to either INA or HT, nor many other companies that will be privatised by then, and the question is whether a country that has only 4.3% of GDP will be able to finance all these things that we have stated in population policy. This document therefore contains a large number of prescribed provisions already active in our laws. Therefore, there was no need to overwrite them in this document. It was meant to be simple to implement, and the implementation was lagging behind. There are also some demands from local self-government that cannot be asked by local self-government without lowering funds to local level. It's just that some units of local self-government can't even finance their existing activities, let alone the ones they're forced to do here. So, no centralization, no further funds coming down from the state level. One measure here says should be to encourage the employment of parents who independently care for children and parents with special needs. We can and absolutely need to support the employment of parents who care for children with special needs. Before that, can we solve the problem of the accommodation of these children? Namely, there are very few cities with any accommodation of children with special needs and the question is how to hire these parents and where they will leave their children. Who's gonna take care of those kids while they're working? So we haven't solved the first assumption that we could solve this second one. Are we finally going to solve in this country the problem of children who depend 24 hours on their parents, children with multiple damages, who, in fact, after 7 years should go to the institution if parents can't take care of them anymore. Are we finally going to give these parents status to get paid, to have paid pension and social benefits? If we give 7000 kuna per user in some accommodation facilities from Stančić, Bistra and some others, then can we give these money to parents so that they stay with their children and take care of them because I think it is a much better care than care for those children in any institution however they are arranged. We still haven't been able to solve the alimony problem. They still don't pay off, and it's a very big problem, so children living with one parent. The measure states to ensure that discriminatory conditions are removed in the employment of young women, especially women, and that is something that exists in the Labour Act. Unfortunately, it is not in practice. Young women are being discriminated against. They are asked whether they will have a child, whether they are married, whether they have children, or if the answer to that question is true, they have little chance of getting a job. Likewise, you have the principle of gender equality in employment here. We didn't do anything about it either. We have provisions of the Labour Act in which it is said neatly that everyone must be on the labour market. Unfortunately not. Women continue to work in activities that are underpaid and therefore have fewer salaries, but have less pensions tomorrow. The measure is written here to ensure reduced interest rates on loans to young couples and families with children. It should be said that the HDZ government has reduced the basis for the exemption from the first apartment tax, that the half-tanned state subsidies for housing are, and the fact is that whoever decides to have a third or fourth child is in need of a slightly larger housing space has almost no relief at that time because it is not about buying the first apartment. So, we made it easier just to buy the first apartment. When it comes to the family support system, there is also this child support supplement where units of local self-government are required to provide and some funds and therefore give a certain payment of the child's allowance. Those units of local self-government that had the opportunity in the good part and the SDP in power gave these supplements in any form to children. But once again, I say a lot of local self-government units that won't be able to do that. Therefore, this measure will, in fact, remain unrealised in areas at risk. The payment of an essential supplement for 3 and 4 children is ensured. Well, unfortunately, we don't fight for third and fourth, we fight for another child. We must encourage our families to have another child. Our third and fourth numbers are pretty far away when the statistics are in Croatia. Therefore, encouraging a third child was meant to move our measures to encourage another child. Tax breaks are said to introduce value added tax, preferential value added tax rate on children's clothes, shoes, equipment, food, hygiene products. I must remind you that we proposed such a VAT rate at the beginning of the term of office. At that time, the HDZ Government, headed by Minister Shuker, rejected it and refused with one argument that it simply did not comply with the European Union and that it is necessary to have a single rate. So now I am very interested in what has changed, whether we have decided not to comply with the standards of the European Union. So what happened in the last three years is that here you can now go to a differentiated rate when it comes to children's needs and it couldn't be when we at the SDP suggested it. Harmonisation of family and business life here is required of employers not full-time, work at home, telebusiness, sliding hours. Well, we gentlemen are not in a position to resolve Sunday's work in such a way as how it was solved by colleagues in Slovenia, that women who actually suffer most in trade because of their work on Sundays should be regulated in a way that pays them 80% more than that, for example. in Slovenia made, but also to make some schedules in those shops that they do not work every Sunday. So we could have done that too, and this, I'm afraid, is going to be difficult for us to do when it comes to employers. Take care of the kids. There are not enough kindergartens here and Mrs Kosor here when she said that there are about 1600 children waiting for kindergarten in the City of Zagreb. However, 4 new kindergartens were built in the same town of Zagreb this year alone. Over the next year, I think he's planning more than four. Therefore, the City of Zagreb will solve the problem of children who are not placed in kindergartens relatively quickly. It should also be said that the City of Zagreb is the only city in which it was introduced, so kindergartens have been introduced that children can be in kindergartens by 8 hours, which is actually good and the only quality help for parents who work. Because there are parents working in two shifts, and it's very important to them that maybe that child can stay in kindergarten for up to eight hours sometime. The city of Zagreb is as well as I know the only one who has left such standards. However, many others in local self-government units will not be able to do so because they do not have enough funds. So it's not easy to build a kindergarten, it takes money. And so this too will remain in many environments something that will remain just a letter in this national population policy. This population policy provides for the provision of free textbooks for compulsory education. There's only one question for me here in a country that doesn't have much money to throw away. Is it fair and fair to have an equal child who lives with parents who are unemployed, who find it difficult to make ends meet and my child. I don't think they're exactly in the same position and I think maybe we should really see here if at the moment it's something that's needed for everyone or we can really do something more to help those who need help and by the state. He has a large number of children who, for example, And when they get the textbooks, the question is, will they be able to pay for the ticket to school? I've had opportunities to be in places where a number of children can't go to school because they don't want to, but simply because their parents don't have the money to pay them a ticket to school. On the other hand, one chapter discusses the health care of the mother and child. It should be said that a project has been stopped to institutionalise the accommodation of children without parental care. Unfortunately, the raised funds of UNICEF of 2 million and it seems to me that 200 thousand kunas that were to be spent on a childcare project so to foster families, none of this has happened, the project simply does not exist. No foster family has been found and children are unfortunately in carefree homes today. Similarly, we did not ensure an effective fight against violence among children. We still don't have enough professional mental health. Unfortunately, the only thing we put into many institutions is zero tolerance on violence. However, it is not of great benefit, children need to work, mental - health experts who know how to identify their problems and who can help them at a time when they need help and when they actually have good results. Because at times when they're grown men, when they commit a crime, it's actually too late. You should work with those kids when they're little. Unfortunately, there aren't enough experts for now, and we haven't done much here. In 5 years, doctors warn there will be no pediatricians in primary health care, but unfortunately I don't see that the Ministry of Health reacted, that some new specializations have been called. Therefore, the question is indeed what we will have in 5 years when it comes to pediatricians and treatment of children. Unfortunately, we don't even have a Law on Medical Aided Insemination. We have a law that's out of date. According to some projections of experts, therefore, doctors who have been doing this for more than 20 years are growing infertility, which means that if we want to get every child in this country, we will have to help everything that medicine can do today to help young couples who have problems to start a child. Unfortunately, we don't have a Law on Medical Aided Insemination. It would be good if in this term we could pass that law, and it was written. Likewise, we still do not have education in children’s schools of health education, sexual education, whatever you want to call it. I think the greatest focus of such an education is not only on educating children about sexually transmitted diseases and the consequences of all of this but on educating children about what self-respect is and in some ways also to direct that part of education to give and point to other values in relation to which I now think they develop among the young population. And finally, here, this document, in the opinion of us from the SDP club, will fall so on financial means, not next year, but certainly all those years behind this one that will be elected, 2007. Whether this document should be moved with some other existing documents and strategies, and in the end it was much more important that many parts of this population programme that have already been written in existing strategies and laws have been implemented so far, and we have not written such materials that only stay somewhere in the Assembly archive, and the Croatian family has little use for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75646	Thank you very much. One tolerated and peaceful debate, and so many applications for correcting incorrect allegations. First, respected colleague Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75647	Thank you very much. I'll try to correct my colleague's tolerance tone. First of all...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75648	Well, that's what's expected.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75649	It is incorrect that the HDZ authorities' arrival that nothing happened in the Republic of Croatia in terms of population policy. Well, I also said in my debate, in the first year of our term, we paid a thousand-and-600-to-two-and-a-half-thousand birth leave from two to three years, a birth payment from 1,000 kuna to the first year for unemployed mothers, for mothers who gave birth to twins, third and every next child a thousand 600 kuna to three years of life, etc. And the numbers indicate that there were results. It is incorrect that there will be no pediatricians in the Republic of Croatia in five years. In fact, we've pointed out that they're missing now, but the Department of Health has called in ten specializations recently from pediatrics. 20 more specializations are planned for next year. And this fellow colleagues about the possibility of getting a book for your child and a child who can't buy it, I don't think there should be discrimination between children in class and that all books must be purchased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75650	Correction of an incorrect quote, a respected colleague of Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75651	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, considering... today is World Tolerance Day I'm not going to say some things that I meant to say in correction, but I'm going to correct one quote to a distinguished colleague when she said that the government is nothing, and she's trying to do anything to solve the alimony problem. [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] Right now, it comes to our benches of law that will greatly improve the state of alimony resolution, as well as complete reform of the social care system. And it's up to us in this High House that these laws we vote to enforce and worry about whether they're being implemented on the ground. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75652	Correction of incorrect allegations, respected colleague Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75653	Thank you very much. Here I am joining my colleagues to be tolerated. But I will correct the inaccuracies. Look, a colleague of Opačić spoke on behalf of the SDP club, and there I want one great lie in the debate of her and the debate of the club to correct, and that is when she said that four kindergartens were built in the City of Zagreb, it is not true. In the six years of the SDP government in the City of Zagreb, only one kindergarten was built, because I am, too, living in the City of Zagreb, more precisely in 4. You're a pain in the ass. Four o'clock. Bezovica where 11 thousand live and 500 inhabitants have not built a single kindergarten, and we haven't had a request for project documentation for five years. I invite you to raise your hand and tell your friends in the City of Zagreb and our mayor who has been legally elected, I do not dispute, to listen to this cry to children from 4. You'll need a kindergarten. If the kids were driving 15, 20, it's not funny, Mrs. Opacic, it's sad. I have already grown-up grandchildren, but I speak for all the people and those people who belong to SDP's policy because they asked me to because I'm from that area of representation here. Vapaj one tells you that it is high time for the City of Zagreb and the Mayor and Holding and the President of the Holding Mr. Ljubicic to open one consciousness and build a kindergarten for that child in 4. You're a pain in the ass. Is that perhaps the only punishment that only that 4. I don't know, but we need to clear that up, that we should all be equal in need. And I'm in favour of what you said should be distributed evenly in Croatia, but don't forget to cut the cake evenly in Zagreb. Thank you. ... You don't have any. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] People went to SDP because you came to work political corruption in Brezovic. Go past plan four. You've loaded the homeless with programs and wishes of the SDP, which is why you have a deficit, which is why you have a loss of seven billion. You took out a loan to pay people's salaries in the City of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75654	As you colleagues Šolić strongly advocate Brezovic, I believe you will be a councilman in the City of Zagreb City Assembly for this area. A colleague, Markovinović, a correction to an incorrect quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75655	Thank you, Mr. President. As we can see, tolerance is going well, so we'll move on. So here's a really incorrect quote, which is that these incentives should actually be fighting for another child and not for a third child. That's not true. I know a huge number of young families who have two children very quickly, think about a third child, and have a third child born to them regardless of the conditions you speak of. I can tell you that certainly does not depend on the terms. Here I am, as a third child when I was born, the state had extraordinary conditions. It was... the organization of Bleiburg, the Crossroad, the indifference in the city where every other house was born was killed by at least one to two men. Well, given the conditions that didn't happen, maybe there'd be a million more of us today, and then we'd have fewer problems. But thanks to your party's predecessors, unfortunately that didn't happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75656	Correction of incorrect allegations, colleague Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75657	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here I think colleague Opacic has the right to his opinion, but it's not true that nothing happened and nothing's happening. It is also incorrect for colleagues, Opačić, that there will not be enough funds in 2008 and 2009 as you said, in implementing these measures. After all, we now have in the procedure of these benches a proposal for a new law on the financing of units of local (regional) and regional self-government that will solve a lot of these problems, and it is also related to that of your statement,...... Not to me in Zagreb, but to me in Sisko, my colleague Opačić will. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And on the other hand, you said that, it's about this law, that some local units in which the SDP is in power, have given some of the supplements a one-time help, but obviously I also appreciate that you can't know everything, so I'm just going to warn you that your mayor, Mrs. Lovric, has come to power in Sisak-Moslavina County, and she has abolished some of these aids because she thinks they are unnecessary, that it needs to be invested in economic development, in lending to various companies that can be read about in the paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75658	Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected colleague, Stengl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75659	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Obviously, I should have picked up the tile earlier, but all one thing. Unfortunately, it is incorrect, I stress, unfortunately, that Zagreb and at this rate of four, say building four kindergartens a year will solve all the problems and let me say meet the needs. I read last year that Zagreb, in the past year, had 6.5 thousand places in kindergartens, a million inhabitants. Just to tell you, Vukovar has 550 seats in kindergartens. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75660	Correction of an incorrect quote, dear colleague Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75661	Thank you very much. Well, you'd be correcting the quote that my colleague said, that she didn't invest in peds specials because a primary childcare specialist would be missing. That's not true. He's investing. It is also invested this year, we are now budgeting at the end of the year for 10 specializations, for next year it is scheduled 20. But I would now remind you of another fact. There has been a shortage of specialists in primary health care for years, but it has been the result of a trend that was unfortunately during the past government that forced family medicine specialisation and even said that a pediatrician should not be in primary protection, that it will be done by general medicine specialists. Because of that impasse, we now have a deficit of 80 peds specialists in primary protection, but the peds are pretty much in the hospital.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75662	Thank you very much. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected colleague Babić Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75663	Mr. Vice President in the spirit of tolerance. Mr. Vice President and colleague Kramaric, you're underhearing, in the spirit of tolerance, I'll say the following. The proposal for a national population policy is not a ritual document and populistly, this is a document whose objectives are outlined and make sure that it will also be implemented in the hope that after a year or sooner or later, we will read the statistics that this will happen. My colleagues, Opačić, make sure this is not a ritual document because for 2007, since you said there were children, due to lack of property, non-payment of transportation from place of residence to school cannot go to school for 2007, for 2008. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports provides free transportation even though I told a colleague who used to speak to us. The textbooks you said was discrimination if children of rich or poor receive textbooks, I hope that the Resort Ministry will share textbooks and take care of textbooks that they will be able to use them in a few years, not just for one year as is common in all European countries. Then you said that why don't we take an example of Slovenia on weekdays. Just... Let's make it not work on Sundays, that every Croatian woman, the Croatian mother can stay home for at least seven days. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we compare why you did not compare to Germany where one woman in one Germany cannot happen and it is a European country, nor other European countries for Sundays or for a 100% increase in her personal income. Mr. Arlovic, you said that colleague Šolić could be a councilwoman. Why can't she be the councilwoman of the City of Zagreb? I hope I'm going to be Councilwoman of Sharp Luke, and I deserve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75664	No, I said it affirmably considering what they are and how a colleague advocates Bezovica. I really expect him to run and be a councilman... [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75665	So if God does, that's what's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75666	Of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75667	At least the mayor.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75668	Well, of course, because I have great respect for the MPs who are fighting for their constituency from the first space they come from. A colleague named Jurkin, a correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75669	Dear Vice President, you said you didn't know if the pediatrics were scheduled. Now I have to get out of this question because I asked him. You know, even as far as pediatrician's concerned, they probably do. This class must be 85, in my county them... Five. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it's not about quantity, it's about quality. Look at this moment, a pediatrician is treating from a thousand to a thousand 200 children. That's where the factor of time is asked. We need to reduce this normative to give our children a quality treatment because how can we expect our children to be treated qualityly when our average pediatricians at this time are those who are 39, 15%, and those who are 60% 19%? I mean, it's a scary piece of information, and in pediatric care there are 220 thousand preschool children at this time, and 100 thousand children are being treated in hospitals of general medicine. So we have to lower this normative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75670	Thank you very much to your colleagues. We're continuing the debate. Dear colleague Kramaric, on behalf of HSLS's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75671	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, honored representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen. I will not be tolerated even though it is a day of tolerance because I think that this topic actually deserves our full attention and precisely shows what we are witnessing from the very beginning of parliamentaryism in Croatia that those in my opinion are marginal themes which, in fact, we show and show a lot of passion and a lot of interest and concentrated attention and anxiety and here the hall is full, and on these topics that we are in some way projecting our future and in some way determining how this is for Croatia as representatives of the political will of the citizens of this country, how we actually see it and how we see it, in fact, that we resort to that self-indication and we actually want to be and to look at ourselves much better than we are because in reality I think that we are more tragic and critical than we are because we dare and admit. I have nothing against this document and like any document in this is actually very valuable from the general places, I think Mrs. Kosor said in her opening statement that no hot water should be discovered, but what really bothers me and where there are actually all the problems and differences between what is being proclaimed and reality is exactly what the paradigm has changed. The paradigm has changed, and we are actually acting on new issues and new challenges to actually give old answers, and we are simply not ready at all to deal with the problems that our present-day has brought us. I'm reading here and it's just being said that there's a positive atmosphere to marriage, family, children and so on. I think that, it's always, I've always done research with students, so when you ask them if you've read a book then they tell you that they've read, when you ask them that they haven't read that book, or when you ask an ordinary citizen what it's missing, then he says culture, but he doesn't actually attend concerts, he doesn't go to theater, he doesn't go to the movies, but it's normal to say that it's something he thinks would make him a citizen, to make him a part of these modern processes. It's about as much as here as it is desirable to say that our family is our greatest value, that we love children, that we hold on to it, but it's only on this verbal, declarative level. In reality, we're actually much more tragic. Unfortunately, my colleague Babić is much more tragic because if that were the case then we wouldn't have to deal with this thing if it was just so great. Are we a modern nation? You will say here that we are and so also that we are indeed one of the oldest European nations, that we are participating, that we are part of all these positive processes, but when you scratch this little bit then you see, and this is what this document shows that we are still suffering, in fact, from some relapses of certain solutions that may have been worth 50 or 100 or more years ago and that is, that is, the fact that very much limits us precisely in the projection of a future Croatia. If you say here that I really don't know us now a certain amount of time will be in a million less than that? What exactly are the answers to the current policy, if it is established? I'm afraid they're palatable, that actually the palatable solutions of this type, yeah, too much concentration in Zagreb, in Osijek, in Split, in Rijeka, and it's these big urban centers that actually ate our population and that actually the horror of the population in Croatia is concentrated right in these big urban centers. But how do you resolve it? That's where the problem comes in. Go right under Karlovac, let's go from Karlovac to Split and really go there to Split, i.e. Which 300 kilometers so you'll see or maybe a little bit more how much space we actually have is empty, empty space and I'm not sure how much of this empty space we're going to know to fill. The same goes for Osijek, as it is for Split to actually become cities that simply cannot swallow the pressure of people who want to live there, and they want to live probably for some reason. They're not driven by some surgical motives. Take our statistical indicators. So is it normal for Zagreb or other urban centres to be so much more developed than other parts? I don't think it's normal and it's an objectively big problem. I don't agree with this kind of polarization that's going on, so then I don't know HDZ tells the SDP what you've done, then they say you're not much more, and that you're constantly being led to a fight who's more or less made when it actually didn't move these 15 years exactly in those negative trends. These negative trends need to be addressed through certain measures. What you get to see is that actually all that seems is not enough and there's not to see now whether it's three or five or seven kindergartens. This I don't think will solve the problems of population policy in this way except that someone will be able to boast I don't know that more or less kindergartens were made for his term in office. I think it's one entirely guilty, one self-lived approach from which we really act like "pilot" and wash our hands. We have this position, we are the political will of the citizens of this country. They chose us that we can really make very important political decisions. We have to be brave, we have to be even intolerant to some processes that are indicative and that show this very strange thing that our villages remain empty, that in the villages live mostly residents who are over fifty years old and that they have actually lost their biological substance, vitality, and that we are really going to have big problems there. It's a fact and she can't and can't be party-colored, so let's say who put out the more villages. It won't solve the problem. You probably know some of you but some of you don't know I've been dealing with Macedonians between inga and culture, literature and society for many years. And then I came across this one piece of information, there... Only in the 1990s that there are more urban populations in Macedonia than in Slovenia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a little strange to me, we've always taken Slovenia as a country that is, that is, the more developed then, in which there is more industrialization, etc. Then you realized actually that after that unfortunate earthquake in '63. the year in Skopje that in fact Skopje has in some way completely destroyed the rest of Macedonia, either people have come to live in Skopje or they have moved to Australia, and it really happened when you take this mechanically that the majority of the population in Macedonia is more than in Slovenia. Because Slovenians were still leading a smarter policing policy, and then at the end of one Maribor, Ljubljana developed a whole series of small towns and they managed to develop that Austrian model that you do not have such a big difference between rural and urban. It is something Croatia must also do. It is not enough to build Zagreb, to build Osijek, but to build those places in addition to keeping the population alive and offer it similar if not better conditions for life, for the future. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. We can go back in history, and certainly there is an answer in history for this present situation today's unfortunate second world war, all that happened after that war, again great migration, going with the belly after bread among other things not just for economic but for political reasons. It's all facts that we end up paying that price, too. Exactly, why was Bosnia very important to the Republic of Croatia? Just because Bosnia was exactly what it was in some way just like that for Bishop Mandic when certain political historical processes were happening, so you could have been devastated by Slavonia after the Turks left, you could have filled something with something. That's why politics towards Bosnia was one of the key ones, but in this policy we haven't passed a very mature, political maturity test, and I'm afraid these last elections... counterpart Bagaric said we made another foul, another mistake and again with long-term political and demographic consequences. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are the things we have to talk about if we want to deal with politics and not bid around three or five or ten kindergartens here. Three, five or ten kindergartens won't solve our problems. Second, whether we will be ready to become a modern nation and to accept the others that will eventually be adapted, assimilated, and that just as it happened in the 19th century. In the 19th century, people who participated in the creation of Croatian political identity were mostly not Croats, from Demeter, from Raza, from Lissinski, from Shenoa, from Shulek, were not people who were from the origins of the Croats, but that shows how much when one is run, there is one clear strategy such as this Iliria Renaissance, a clear political strategy that then you can't even dream of achieving results. And today we do not have such a clear political strategy that is about to prepare us for these challenges that we have, European challenges, and others that we finally become a modern European nation where the relationship with others will not be as it was yesterday. And then it's high time that the people who are sitting here realize that, besides these tiny little party differences of ours, there's a lot of respect for each other because now the other one is going to have to replace Bosnia. And there will be no danger if you really prepare here clear economic, cultural, educational and political standards that will just act as they did in the 19th century. And then we'll solve problems and population policies. This is how all of what this document says is really a general place and that there are other than these tiny ideological ideological differences that my colleague Pupovac pointed out and that I also have to agree with. And secondly, in this Zagreb or Croatia, there is already such a good awareness of birth awareness, there are people who teach in women's studies, there are great books printed and there is an entire library. So please give a little bit of the elements of this very modern theoretical consciousness that deals with these problems. So let's include these documents so they don't get dry. And it hurts me to see in Lawrence that there are so many old and not young, and it's all true, but let's give a little bit of these theoretical bases that are really going to change this political discourse, this practice of ours that often goes to this unnecessary bipolarization that just ends up in the end with some banal things that concern God no more kindergartens but is not only a problem but the problem is in some other things. And so I say one more time, we at the club... And so I say once again, we at the club other than these ideological certain remarks are hard to be against the document but I'm afraid it's actually going back, it doesn't hit the bit old because we're not here in this Parliament, we haven't changed this particular chip of ours and we're still very often thinking really about categories or-or, and I'm afraid that categories that rule out are actually categories that are dogs, and that's why ladies and gentlemen are going so badly and I hope this kind of intolerant tolerance towards documents will improve the exact change of behavior. Just a little bit as one poet says to move his leg, and here's yesterday's Leticia named me a poet, move your leg, the medicine's under my shoe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75672	Correction of an incorrect allegation. Dear colleague Babić Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75673	Mr. President. In two minutes, it is not possible to correct the liberal abstract visions of colleagues Kramaric, so I will give up in the spirit of tolerance. ... Because you really can't... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75674	Thank you very much. My colleague Miljenko Doric...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75675	You're a liberal surprise.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75676	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75677	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I have one custom always to repeat one sentence, and I also do it in a professional life, so I have done it many times and politically and yes... I repeat it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But that's the problem. In fact, my saying was better at any strategy than not having a strategy. However, when I read this population policy strategy carefully, I hope you've read it from your colleagues. You know, I get the feeling that 95% of people haven't read it. 95%. I'm based on what I hear in the debate. When I read it, then I'm convinced that I've been wrong my whole life, you know. We've heard here from a wide range of estimates that it's a political document, a ritual document, an unnecessary document, a populist document, a useless document. I'm maximum tolerance. Choose whatever you want from it, I sign. And now I'm going to show you why. I usually take the white page and draw the line and write the pluses and the minuses, plus on one side, the minuses on the other side to weigh the weight of one document and how much it actually deserves to be missed or missed. And I started to read, I jumped one at first was a demographic condition, because I knew those indicators more or less, and then I started from the basic principles, and I have to admit that I came all the way to 55 pages, and there I just came across one plus. I'll read you that page, that sentence I agree with. It says this: The current age-old composition of the Croatian population is a critical development factor and will be increasingly critical unless more and more intense natural reduction and eviction of the population is stopped. I totally agree with that. To make sure in the next sentence the author doesn't say what. This is how it stands. All relevant assumptions for the start of the process of the total depopulation were formed before and during the 1990s. Changes in the political and economic system have only accelerated the start of the natural and overall depopulation process. Did you follow what I read? So, changes in the political and economic system. So when we replaced the one-brains with a multi-party democracy, we now accelerated the start of the depopulation process. Then when we changed state property through privatisation by private initiative it stands here, then we accelerated the depopulations of the Croatian state. That's the way it is. And then the worst part of the final part of sensitivity is information. I will read you these five measures that are proposed to prevent emigration or contribute at least to preventing emigration. It says. The first measure to sensitize the public for demographic problems. So when we do that, then more people... He's not moving out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Second, establish the Institute for Demographic Research. So, when we get to the institute, we're not moving out anymore. Encourage demographic research. Once we start exploring, we'll never move out again. Conduct a media campaign to promote this population policy and define and launch a national child care movement. That's the fifth and final measure. Then I started again from the beginning. So I returned to the basic principles of national population policy. Two are fundamental principles. Respect for fundamental human rights, volunteering, free and responsible parenting, gender equality, first principle. And secondly, our national population policies are a positive atmosphere towards family, marriage and children. My colleagues and colleagues. I'm a scientist. I've been reviewing the papers a lot. And where do I start when I review the papers? From the end. I take literature first and I see where this man started writing his work, as far as he knows that matter. That's what I did here. So I took this literary data thinking of commending them because it's crucial to watch out. It's nice to get in one of these papers some work that our ministry is clearly relying on to propose such a policy. So what? Like this. Literary data number one. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Number two. UN General Assembly in 1948. I want it to happen to me as a reviewer and I want it back and I want it back. A colleague, please! Let's at least update that literature a little bit, some recent literature, see if you know the latest movements in the area. '48. A year. We base the national population strategy in the first half of the 21st century on data from the first half of the 20th century. Don't laugh. That's terrible, you know. It's for crying. It's for crying. And then the literature data. Catholic Church of the University of Zagreb as Croats believe and live. Then, God’s View No. 2 of 2000. Then, the Croatian family at the turning point, the Center for Promoting the Social Science of the Church. Then, the relevant values for the successful and desired number of children in Croatia – The Divine Review. The importance of marriage and family in Croatian society – The Divine Review. Research of the Catholic Faculty of God in Zagreb, how Croats believe and live. The attitudes of Croatian citizens towards children – The Divine Review. Research of the Centre for the Promotion of the Social Science of the Church in Croatia and Caritas in 2004 titled "Following Poverty in Croatia". My colleagues and colleagues, you know, in one serious state, I absolutely agree that we also respect the teaching of the church, but that 90% of the data based on which we are going into one project is based on one strategy based on what the church has told us is not enough. That's not enough. Now it's time to correct the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75678	Correction of the incorrect quote by his colleague Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75679	I'm, I'm really glad Professor Doric's surprised to see you. But I'm really surprised at you. [[The intruders don't understand.]] Now I could probably, by my status with neither do I, with my already registered doctorate, be your student and give you a lecture from exactly what you gave us a lecture from. And now I'm going to show you that you were wrong. So I'm correcting your inaccuracies. When you set an example here and mocked this document on this basis, what are the references to this document? So you said. I quote, below 16. ......... Just a little bit, under 16, just a second, under 16: "UN General Assembly '48." And that, only then can it mean that you did not read this document. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, under 16, it says it's a recommendation of the General Declaration of Human Rights that was passed in 1948. It couldn't be brought in in 1998. So you can't, you can't call on her from that time. And that's not at all proof that this material isn't worth it. You've missed everything. Well, I guess. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75680	We're continuing the debate. It's my dear colleague Ivan Jurkin's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75681	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen from the Ministry. Maybe I should say 1948 this year. You know why '48? Because in 1948 the largest number of marriages in Croatia was very important to us for population policy. And that was 11.7 per thousand inhabitants and today your number of marriages in Croatia is 5.2 per thousand. It's a disaster. And right now in Croatia, we have about 2 million 150 thousand people who are married, and that's also very little. As far as this migration policy is concerned, which my predecessor, the distinguished professor, was talking about, I'm going to remind you of one example. In Western Germany the vast majority of your doctors are going to work in Scandinavian countries. Poles come to Germany because they have better wages. And the Germans are going to Scandinavian countries. You know for what reason? That's why, and that's 60%, because only 40% stays in West Germany. They're leaving because the quality of life is better there. And they're working less. And as for measures and principles, that's what my predecessors said, so I won't talk about it much, but I have to point out that in Croatia, unfortunately, the first child's salary is the best that a mother can experience, unfortunately, has less and less. I have to say, this vital index that was 87 to 100 in 2000. That means if 100 of them died, 87 of them were born slowly repairing, but it's a disaster for our country. And you know that every second in the world, a 4.1 child is born to die 2.8, to die, to die 2.3 people. No, no, no, it's 1.8, and 2.3 is a natural increase. It's a daily increase of 200, 200 thousand new people. But it all has its own lifetime and it exists so-called. The phenomenon of limited duration and it won't go very far. But we must say that in the 20th century in Croatia was born in 1909, my colleague Doric was born on old grounds, 1400, 141 thousand children were born, and now only 50 are born. Well, of course we have to worry and that we have to go into population policy for reasons that are already today because in the data presented by Caritas 89.2% of the population, we expect to enter population policy and improve the situation in Croatia. Actually, we have to stop this eviction. Because you see that the population in the last 100 years would increase from 3,000 to, from 3 million to 4 million took 100 years and that's only a 33% increase. And the European countries at the time had an increase of 78%. And with this natural increase of 10.5% to increase our population, we need 66 years. But as a health care professional, I am more interested in these fine indicators. And you, this fine indicator, one of these is natural growth, or natural growth, one, and the other I'm interested in this infant mortality. This mortality is 6.1, and in European countries, and even this neighbouring Slovenia there is 4. In Scandinavian countries, it's 3.1. There's a lot we can do because the basic, basic mistake in why we have so much, that kind of mortality is injury, and that's where we have to team up. Both health care professionals and local policy and parent education, and we will certainly be able to fix that information. That infant mortality from one year to the fourth year, 0.25 is very low and we can't say that we're satisfied, but obviously we can't do much here. We have to go to these fine programs. We know that in Croatia, 97.8% of infants are on, everything on the chest. And 14.6% are exclusively on an artificial diet. We have to go to those programs. We have to go to a healthy diet program in kindergartens. We need to go to health-food programs in primary and secondary schools. And I think not only rhetorically that the state has a chance. And that this population policy has a chance and that we can stop this negative demographic trend and that is because we respect the traditional values of family life and, with the active support of the state, local communities and child care, we can do a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75682	Replica, dear colleague Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75683	Namely, I fully agree with you in that first part of your exposure when you spoke about migration flows in Europe and the country, in the country people are looking for happiness, better living conditions, etc. In that case, we should have discussed today what to do in this segment because it is the basis of everything without investment, without technology transfer, without promotion of production, without employment there is no population policy either. And Croatia today you all know as well as I do, our industrial production today is at the level of two-thirds of the production from 1990. So, two-thirds of the production from the 1990s. It doesn't please me. This does not give young people any confidence that they will remain, that the young will have any chance of hiring, improving their standard, or anything else. So there's the problem. All of this falls normally into the water because we didn't recognize the personal point of a population policy that we have to or must go from.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75684	The answer to the line, dear colleague Jurkin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75685	A colleague of Doric, you probably know that in the last century he moved out, moving out of Croatia 26550 people every year. That means it's a negative balance of five hundred fifty thousand people. Any measure of any kind if you stop this migration trend I'll be very pleased.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75686	Replica coworker of the Chichin-Shain basket.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75687	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to replicate my colleagues in the section where he referred to population policy as breastfeeding. Namely, an increase which, the natural increase that you also mentioned in the context of it can neither be the main nor the main part of the population policy, and we can no longer talk about it. What is missing in all of this and it seems to me that in today's debate in some way is not touching the migrations that are very important. In Europe, therefore, looking at not the world and the data you have talked about in the world, but looking at Europe, Europe is old and Europe does not have a population-positive policy. So the number of people who die is greater than the number of people who are born. We are a highly Catholic country and behind Poland probably the most catholic country in this part of Europe. So it's not even faith that creates population policy. That's not justified, because otherwise we wouldn't have such a negative trend if it was a matter of faith. So that's not the reason. Can we talk about the economy? The economy is somehow a reason, even if you can deny me because the population policy is certainly bigger in Nigeria, and certainly the GDP there is much lower than in Croatia. So there are entirely other reasons that I think we haven't touched at all in today's debate, which condition population policy. That's not natality. That's before some migration. That's before some going to work like you said where to live better. This is a higher standard for Europe, i.e. people living in Europe. That's not even faith. So I think we've missed a little bit in this material for the right reasons that could lead to improved population policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75688	Okay. Let's move on with the debate. It is next, dear colleague Ivan Bagaric. You're a colleague of the Bagarics.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75689	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Before looking directly at this subject, I would like to read a part of the Report on the debate and a proposal for a national policy by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports because I am a member of this Committee and because the Committee has considered this very important matter. Unfortunately, however, I do not know the outcome of the reason why no one here today was in charge to read ahead of the board. Therefore, in order not to get the impression of this body, the Committee must know that, in fact, it absolutely supported the adoption of this document by standing in one segment. In the debate, most board members supported the proposal for a national population policy. This type of document is considered to be unpleasant in the Republic of Croatia in order to stop a negative demographic trend only through the development and promotion of the economy, active support of the family by the state, local communities, developed child care, quality of health protection, and coordination of family and business life can create assumptions for stopping a negative demographic trend over a long period of time. Therefore, the Committee supported this document. I would refer to one, I think Mr. Kramarić said or someone else that actually this topic did not cause great attention in the assembly. In particular, we notice in one part of the assembly. I don't see anything wrong with that, and first of all, I think two reasons are enough. There's one part of the people who's just talking in front of the cameras that's not here right now. Thus, nothing particularly lost on the importance of this subject nor on its quality. Thank you very much. But on the other hand, it's a good sign, given that it's precisely on this side where there are fewer representatives of this matter as if they're taking themselves and holding themselves, that they have the exclusive right to interpret this matter and to represent what I'm pleased with. They probably didn’t doubt that this matter was good, so they didn’t come. So it's just proof that this material is actually good. Now more specifically, I would say that this is a strategic document that needs strategic approach and support. In addition to the material incentives that are clearly mentioned here and which I would have said one basis very important is also this item that is listed as the last one I would have even put in the first place and you called it today a sensitization of the public. We might as well define it as an attempt to work in the community of social marketing with the aim of changing the individual behaviour that some other MPs have talked about here when it comes to family, when it comes to the number of children, when it comes to birth. So, unfortunately or not, or however we realize it is not a condition I don't know the population boom and good material condition. The proof is that the largest, richest countries in the world are also struggling with this issue, and we know times when people here had much less when it was material, and they had a lot more children. Therefore, we must live and cultivate those values that will encourage people to give birth, which will actually work for a certain promotion of the child as a value, a child as values in the family in the nation and, in general, in society as such. On the other hand, I don't know, these depopulations, like in Croatia, I don't think black forecasts about reducing the population in Croatia will be met. In the first row, Croatia is already in a relatively good position, and the entry into the European Union will open up further development opportunities. I have already said that progress in itself will not in particular encourage the birth of children. However, such Croatia will become a country magnet for people with capital and for those who will move to Croatia to earn it. These are reasons that demographers do not also predict a reduction in the population with Croatia, but a substitution or replacement. Is that comforting? I would also like to say passports on which all Croatians born in Argentina or Australia, Germany or the Fire Land should be entitled to become an important means of immigration and I would say the population policy of Croatia. So this document is worth the basics, because I would say a golden cube in Mozambique, in a common mosaic that should actually be a beautiful picture and that should answer completely, systematically and effectively when it comes to the prosperity of the people we belong to, or the country we live in. It's time for the time of departure to be replaced by time of return. At that time, there should also be Croatians in Bosnia and Herzegovina who have been patching up a biological hole in Croatia. According to all relevant data, I think that much more than 10% of the current living population in Croatia was born in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That, to come from Bosnia and Herzegovina, that figure is moving somewhere I think between 40 and 50%, so in general, they have roots in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Unfortunately, it's time behind us. Could there be a half-breeding people in the war and a future reserve for Croatia? He can't. Or even harder to question, which also concerns Croatia. How do you guarantee him survival in his own country? Bosnia and Herzegovina is also the first responsibility, but I would say in Croatia. No matter what anyone will think about it, I really believe that the shortsighted officials are all those who deny child benefits to mothers who, for example, have given birth in Croatia, and occasionally live in Herzegovina or Bosnia, as well as in Croatia. We have a lot of cases where you can't actually locate someone where he lives not because he hides and hides his tracks where he lives, but simply because he lives like that. We have many people from Bosnia and Herzegovina who have homes in Croatia, especially in the coastal area, including in large cities, Zagreb, Split, etc. And they actually live in both Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia. The citizens are both Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia. And I keep it completely blind, and if it is possible for the secretary of state to intervene that those who deny these parents the right to an extra child because they actually want to show up, I don't know, either, that if they want to have that allowance then they should check out in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is actually a completely unacceptable policy and we must take care of it and we must also change it. Finally, in a document also brought by the Croatian government in '96. I think, which is called the National Programme for Demographic Development, has been placed and stressed that the Croatian diaspora should be a significant source and I would say insurance and health and labour, so a selective approach to migration policy as such. And then certain directions of movement were drawn, which is to restore external migration research. So she will not, as Mr Doric said, prevent further emigration, but it is also one of the preconditions to actually stop negative trends, strengthen the role of diaspora in connecting the Republic of Croatia with the international market. Draft of the national immigration bodies, removing disturbances affecting the return of immigrants, informing Croatian emigrants, and encouraging and supporting the work of emigrant organizations, these are all very important moments, very important... And unlike my colleagues, the respected professor Doric who listed here actually some weaknesses of this document and underlined these references, I would really single out exactly that as one value of this document. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why? We're getting almost all the materials into these assembly benches without seeing any sources at all. We don't, we don't usually have references. This is me thinking one of the few that I don't say maybe the first or one of the rarest, the right ones will be, the documents that have it. So we see here in a transparent way what this material is actually... Every strategy, every document can be better, it can certainly be this one. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, it does not diminish its value, nor would I say a point in that mosaic I spoke of, the strategic mosaic of Croatia's relationship with its people and with the Croats in the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75690	Thank you, dear colleague Bagaric. We have three replicas. Chichin-Shain, first replica. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75691	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Members, speaking of material incentives, I would like to remind you that the main objections of the European Union are, at all, on our government's part in a segment relating to objections to excessive subsidies and support. So we're going to have to cut it down with time. So we won't be able to increase it, but we'll have to cut it down. But that's why we're going to have to increase economic development and make up for it. So it's not subsidies, it's work. Another thing I'd like to say to you is value, recite values that will encourage people to give birth. You know, there are in Zagreb they tried with one subsidy for a third child to be supported until I don't know what seventh year etc. As a result, a large number of children are born in extremely poor families, as opposed to the fact that rich families do not even have a first child. Maybe the decision to subsidize would be better for the first child because then, in a larger number of couples, they would get more children, it's a natal policy. But once again, I'd like to say, we're talking population policy here and I don't want to mix things up. And population policy is migration, going to work, looking for better working conditions. During the war years, a large number of Croats were moving from Croatia to the workplace. So, they didn't go because they were running away, but they went somewhere to get hired and mostly highly educated where we paid them as a state. In general, the old population is a characteristic of Europe and an extension of life span, i.e. it brings people to an unfavourable position a working high of the old population. It's usually a theme in Germany number one right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75692	Replica reply, dear colleague Bagaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75693	So in a great deal of your thinking and exposure, I agree. However, I disagree with the part where you say that Europe is asking us to reduce this incentive. First, subsidies, etc. So, first of all, Europe is asking us to do what it wants, and Europe is doing everything at the same time to actually improve its national population parameters or to make the most of the policy as such. Therefore, as is true for Germany, which is also true for the Netherlands or France does not necessarily mean that it is true for Croatia. After all, France is already paying dearly, I would say, mistakes from its past, and this is an uncontrollable inflow of people who are not indigenous, and then not taking systematic care of them in order to involve them in society and now stems from the problems that arise from what they come from. And so I mentioned that, in any case, there would be one non-discriminatory, I would say selective, but not discriminatory approach that would include one approach to Croatian emigration, and at least it's known that the Croat lives here and here equally, and regardless of what their fathers or grandfathers may move away from here, much easier... and live here in this space and this country than the Chinese will. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With all due respect to every man, no matter what nation, etc. And when it comes to this question of the eye, I don't know whether to support the rich or the poor to have more children, I don't think direct material support will play a key role. That's why I was talking about that change of attitude towards the child. I don't believe the child I want or don't want, so the child was born and whoever has it is absolutely not giving it up and there's a fortune in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75694	Thank you very much. The next replica of his colleague, Bucan, has. Here you go, buddy Bucan.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75695	Thank you very much. Well, in his inspired presentation, my colleague Bagaric said that Croatia is not alone in this problem, that it also slows down other countries. It pushes other countries, but in different ways. We have an example of two great world countries. On the one hand, Russia, where President Putin, in his previous speech, spoke to the nation about the most difficult national problem since Russia loses millions of inhabitants annually due to negative growth. So, on the other hand, we have China trying to maintain high economic growth, stopping natural growth, stimulating the birth of only one child because it also reduces the total population by 2050 by 1/3. So that's two ends. And when he says he doesn't believe in pessimistic prognosis. One thing we believe is what we believe, and the other is a state of fact. The second is what we are warned by experts from the United Nations who deal with demographics who say that a demographic disaster is being announced in Europe, and in this context Croatia is in one respect very low. And that is that the demographic processes of ageing are characteristic of all of Europe, but are the most pronounced in post-transition countries and unfortunately in this segment Croatia is in the last place. Because Europe has a population of 17% over 65. So in Croatia 17%, the European average 14% and the European Union average 16%. So these are some things we believe, I believe you and I together that this programme of measures will at least partially ease them, but of course the problem isn't since yesterday. He is probably from 1963 when they start, 62, 3. all of these negative trends in Croatian society, especially the age index.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75696	Replication response, colleague Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75697	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75698	Replica, dear colleague Doric has. Here's your colleague, Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75699	With this last reply to the replica, my colleague Bagarić confused me and I don't know if I should concentrate on it now or not. I'll shut up, won't I? Shut up, yeah. I wanted to tell you, colleague Bagaric, that I have carefully read all the reports of all the committees, although I am truly sorry that their presidents or deputies were not with us today. It was a minimum of obligation and decency. I'm the line you read long ago, considering it good, and I'm going to say it again. Only through the development and promotion of the economy, etc., etc. Even the opinion of fellow Vidovic at your session has been expressed, I believe that housing, social, education, financial and economic policy should be defined first and foremost. I'd just change the order of priorities and maybe head forward from the end. But if that's the case, if that's what we agree on, then we should have really talked a lot more about what we've put this population policy on. What economic strategy? That I know how to tell my kids and my grandkids which school to go to, what to enroll, what to study. In which direction will the Croatian state encourage and which economy. So let's keep them in this country, you understand? That's what I'm talking about all the time, that's what I get mad about all the time, etc. That's the key. You had good thoughts, good ideas, but Croatia needs creative, professional and determined economic policy, and in 48 years, the General Convention on Human Rights, colleagues, that, the General Convention on Human Rights. We have at least 15 Council of Europe conventions and the last 10, 15 years of family, young people, employment and education in the employment function to which we can selectively and specifically connect. It would be the same as calling this National Population Policy a National Policy. You know? That's not enough. We have special, excellent documents, we are a member of the Council of Europe, we use them, we use those experiences.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75700	Replication response, colleague Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75701	Thank you, Mr. President. So related to this reference, namely this 16th, choice number 16 or reference number 16. It's a general declaration of human rights and I think, I don't know, but I think it's a unique document that was then issued and that he didn't like such a suffered change, they could be derived from it by someone else. But the fact that he's listed here as a reference to me doesn't see anything wrong or that he didn't know in the trend or... Or I don't know what. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, I agree with you, but I agree with you when you say this document does not solve itself. That's right. However, you could also say, and I'm quite sure that you would do it to sit here, you could say this document is an extraordinary cube that will in total be discussed both by you and me and everyone here to do and do. If you'll excuse me, here's one question so answer me for yourself or later. And would it be better if we didn't do this? Is that what we're doing? Are we improving this if we don't do this, if we don't bring this? So this is one in a series of documents, and when you talk about the economy so that this isn't an economic strategy, this is a population strategy, and someone else needs to make economics, it's the government, so... Well, someone else is going to make an immigration that's going to be the government again, so we're going to install this, and then all of these in a series I don't know the link is going to make some kind of effect. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Otherwise and without this link, the chain will be completely powerless and unusable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75702	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. It's time for a respected colleague of Arabovic's. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75703	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We said a lot here today. It is extremely important to continue, agree and unanimously accept a document such as national population policy. This is a national and economic issue whose primary objective is to halt the adverse demographic situation by applying certain measures and activities. The publication of its own population can be achieved through an increase in birth, a halting of differences in regional development, i.e. stopping urban and rural polarisation, enabling the return of Croatian emigrants, promoting demographic development through even deployment of the population. The Republic of Croatia, with some 4 and a half million people, belongs to a group of rarely populated countries. Over the years, the population has moved from smaller settlements to larger ones, and a number unfortunately had to leave the country. All of this reflected in the ageing composition of the population. The high representation of the elderly continues to mark all Croatian counties by aging. This unfavourable population structure also causes other negative processes. It changes the habit of living, the trend of getting married, and that reduces the number of newborn children. Marriage instability also leads to family instability. It has been proven that family for most people is the greatest form of human happiness. The basic principles of population policy are precisely a positive atmosphere towards family, marriage and children, respect for fundamental human rights, gender equality and free and responsible parenting. Children are considered the greatest social treasure, and the family should be promoted as one, the only possible potential for the Croatian nation's survival. Measures to implement this policy are the development of potential settlements, the possibility of education for all, the promotion of a family economy in the area of emigration and accelerated ageing, the direction of future immigrants in less populated areas, the transport of potential central settlements, the provision of concessions by the state. Agricultural, guaranteeing the concessions of state agricultural land for family farms. Employment of young unemployed parents who are self-sufficient for their children, improving the conditions of employment of young women, ensuring gender equality, housing of young people, providing credit with lower interest which most of this government and the rest of the ministry are trying to do best. Family support will be prescribed by a special regulation. One-time aid will be provided for a newborn child of 70% of the budget base, an allowance will be provided for children in accordance with the income achieved, an allowance for the third and fourth children in the family will be provided, maternity benefits will be linked to the budget base, the right to receive maternity benefits for all mothers who are not employed at least 50% of the budget base. A contribution to pension insurance in the amount of gross salaries employed by mothers will be provided, a flexible use of additional maternity income will be introduced by the eighth year of child's life. The inclusion of more fathers in the new system of family support will be promoted. With tax breaks, the state recognises certain costs for supporting family members, since 1 January 2005, tax relief for housing needs has been signed, as of 1 January 2003, exemptions from the payment of real estate taxes to citizens who first resolve their housing issue. Parents must remain involved in the labour market in order to maintain the economy, but they will therefore do their best to bring business and family life into line. The measures that make it possible are as follows. First measure, but no less important than the other four. The first measure provides for a subsidy in the payment of contributions in the use of a part-time parent for the first and second children until the third year of life. For the third and every further child to the eighth year of life. Second, second measure. Encouraging the employer to adopt specific rules relating to the flexibility of work and place of work. Strike three. Introducing the right of an unemployed parent with three and more children to refuse employment outside the residence. It's a fourth measure. Introducing rights to a parent who takes care of a child on his own for up to the age of 10, one of the parents of a child with severe development disorders up to 15 years of life to refuse to accept employment outside the residence. Fifth measure. I'm just... I'm... I'm... I'm... supervision for the purpose of preventing illegality in the application of the provisions of the Labour Act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Care for children is tailored to the various needs of parents and children and to the age of children. It was important to make... standards, provide free textbooks, provide extended stay for children in primary schools. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now it's about introducing one-way work. I'm hoping for the near future of one-way schoolwork. Measures to ensure optimal growth and development of the child are enhanced, the health care of the mother and child, the establishment of the Centre for Family Planning and the establishment of a counselling centre. The Croatian population must be informed about the objectives of population policy because it promotes family values and raises the quality of family life. If all this had been fulfilled that I had now read, I would have also proposed to this House of Highs a strict Law on the introduction of tax on bachelors. Thank you very much. [[- That's a good one. That's right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75704	It's not a bad proposal for a law on bachelor tax, but because of gender equality, you should also think about those who don't get married. He's a colleague of the Bacic Replic. Here you go. My colleague Bacic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75705	I would welcome all this what counterpart Arabovic said about family as the basis of everything. And that's probably good. He emphasized it several times. However, I would remind you of something that is and he has now finally said what is actually going on with it. We all make it possible for the family to be encouraged by all means that the material condition of the family would be good. At the same time, however, some of the blues that we also propagate as good actually cancel it out. We'll only start from work time. This shift of hours to practically all day work by 17, 18 hours. What leaves families time for parents and children to be together? It's the I say it's good that someone can come back for the baby later. It's all good. But if it's okay for a child to be without parents in kindergarten all day. Some people use it out of their own commoditarian problems and leave their children behind. And now this whole one-way school thing. Sounds really good. But biologically, it's not acceptable for a child to be in school for more than five hours. So that's the problem. We do everything, and we think it's good, and we're actually making ourselves some contradictory situations, and we need to think about it. It's not all good that looks good around here. A child and parents must be as expensive as possible. That should be the goal of it all. All these measures, incentives like this, like this, will be in vain if family, children and parents, grandparents don't spend more hours together. That's the way to think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75706	Thank you very much. Replication response. Dear fellow Arabovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75707	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much, Mr. Comrade Representative. Well, I mean, when I was talking about family, I'd like to explain something that means family to me. Mom, Dad and us six kids, five brothers and a sister times an average of 2.7 kids, and that's family to me. ... It's family to me. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And that's why in my entire debate, I gave my family an accent. I'm still young, maybe even bigger. That's it. And what you were saying about one-way work. Well, it won't be five hours for the kids to be in school, to learn, to be taught by the professor, but they'll have their own fun at school and do homework. She'll also have physical education. And what will children be beyond teaching? What about when the kid comes home at 1:00, and Mom and Dad come in at 5:00 or 5:30 from work? Or my parents come home at 2:00 and we don't know when we'll be back tonight. It means that it's better for a child to be under surveillance and that outside school activities will adapt to those children that they won't be burdened with some big class because it's going right now to unload the bags, unload the material and everything. So I can't agree on this. I think the same-term work will be very helpful if all the pre-conditions are met that the children have a hall where they will be an hour or two. If they had their dance halls, for music,... And for one hanging out, under some kind of big press. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75708	Thank you very much. Now it's my turn to discuss it, but since I can't discuss it from this place then my discussion is delayed until someone replaces me at the chair. ... You have to get that approval from the President of the Parliament. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's my dear colleague Zubovic's turn, but as far as I can tell, he's not in the hall. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] He's losing his voice on this subject. It's up to the esteemed colleague Vidovic. He's also not in the hall. He's losing his voice on this subject. And then it's time for a respected colleague, Brdaric. Here's your esteemed co-worker.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75709	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, representatives of the ministries, colleagues and colleagues. There is a document before us that has ambition to solve a really big problem. I have no doubt at all about the sincerity of desire and the declared goals, but I also don't believe that this document will work out. This time we have addressed the duties, defined deadlines, we are promised a report on the implementation of these programs, will be analysed, will be formed, this will be, will be, will or won't, and eventually, as usual, if what happens doesn't happen? As we know nothing. Maybe he'll put his finger on someone, say no, and move on. I don't think that this national population policy can actually be tackled by the problem and solved by the fact that it needs to start from the economic growth of employment, from the improvement of standards, from economic security. We need apartments, kindergartens, schools, colleges. So we need quality education, good health care, optimal conditions or as good as possible in our situation, and only then do we come to the fact that even when the state meets all these conditions, it depends on man and woman. about the parent couple whether or not they'll have many children. As we know, there are marriages, extramarital and various other relationships. People can reproducely healthy, and if they don't want to have children, people are conscious of beings and have the right and the ability to choose means these deeply intimate issues. They have the right to decide where and how they live. If they are not satisfied with the conditions of life and work in the area where they are located, they have a great right to go where they are better and even if it is not the Republic of Croatia and should be faced with it, as people from some other areas will come to Croatia where it is more difficult than with us and we should be prepared to do so. Population policy only by birth and birth will not be resolved, we heard we need to respect immigration flows. I personally must say that I am not afraid for Croatia. She has survived a lot and while Croatia will be Croatians, but it will be just like those...... How do you look at it? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] There will be others, fortunately in Croatia. Croatia will be a mother to all its citizens I hope, regardless of nationality and I deeply believe in it and it will not be bad for Croatians either, however. If we become truly tolerated society as we were in the assembly today, then we will be able to respect differences and ethnic differences and realize that this can be not a disadvantage but a gain and a virtue if all of Croatia truly accepts all of its citizens from the heart as its own. It was also shown in the war when we didn't have a mildly spoken, good conditions. When we were threatened in various ways that this country survived and that this country was equally defended by some of its citizens of other nationalities. We heard from some speakers that some people who were not ethnically Croats were very important to Croatian history and culture, but with their lives and behavior, they became a contribution. And that's how I think we should look at this problem. And of course be prepared for some other variants, because all people by logic things aren't ideally perfectly good beings but there's a state to make sure that the laws define some things and look at the laws now. As counterpart Opacic said on behalf of the club, if laws were actually implemented in this country, a good part of the problems spoken of in this population policy would be resolved. We have the Law on Gender Equality, Family Law, Labour Act, that these laws are consistently implemented by women would not be in a position to question them about what is not happening to men, whether they are thinking of getting married, how many children and whether they want to be born and whether they are treated according to those answers, i.e. Take it or don't take it. Pregnancy is not a disease. Motherhood isn't, either, on the contrary. So we should do everything in fact to make it possible for women who want both motherhood and work, because only women, as well as men who are economically independent, can be truly equal, have healthy relationships and then raise such children and show by example how to live and now this reminded me of the family values that are very much spoken of. I don't mind that, though. We just have to respect the fact that we don't live in a time of 50 and 100 years ago or more, that the way of life has changed drastically and that the family has changed accordingly. We function completely differently than our parents. Our hours are different, our children go to school differently, and we really don't hang out as much as we used to. But colleagues and colleagues should not be distracted from the mind that it is not so much a false amount of time spent together but the quality of that time. Do we talk to our children, do we really hear them, do we know what they like, do we know what they need or listen to them in half an ear, give a good allowance to shake them off, send them to another room to watch TV or whatever, that's what this is about. We will no longer be able to return to the hearth, and it is not the purpose of turning back. The goal is best to use the conditions in which it is and to do the best you can with what you have. So let's dedicate ourselves to the family, commit ourselves to our children. Those who desire to give birth, let those who do not want to do so, for it is a sin against a child to bring him into the world and not to want him, and it is not true that when a child is born never to be left behind. Sadly, children’s homes for abandoned children are full of such children. It's a fact of life we don't need to close our eyes to. These are children who need to be provided with what we are now talking about, family, good family conditions. These are children who need to be adopted by those families who are not fortunate to have their children. Children are the future of each and this country, but we are obliged to give these children the opportunity to have the future they deserve, the future of a decent new man, a young man who will be educated, who will have a job, who will be able to join that European Union and be equal there, and not be a servant in it and do jobs that no one else will do in that European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75710	Representative Vesna Škrare Ozbolt. She's gone. He's losing his word. Representative Luka Roic. He's gone. He's losing his word. And all that remains is the last speaker, the respected representative and vice president of the House, Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75711	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. If any questions deserve our extraordinary attention, then that's the question. And I have to say, it's a question that not only deserves our extraordinary attention but which is an explicit and eloquent multidisciplinary question. It cannot only be debated from the point of view of the most intelligent policy or care and care for children or family only. It has its own both economic and philosophical, sociological and cultural if you want both legal and organisational and any other dimension actually related to social relations and relationships between people in society today in the modern world. And that's why the whole series of our debates today were actually too tight on the issue that needs to be treated. Some of the things that the programme has counted would simply be difficult to say that they are too high for a simple reason because they came from the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, the laws that we have passed and the intentions we have shown in this direction regarding the achievement of not only the most intelligent but also the population policies. But it should also be pointed out that for this issue and its realization it is very important to look at some of the experiences that we have from the practice of our own social community, our own nation, and then from the practices of the experiences of the countries around us and beyond in Europe and the world and then you will see that the modern way of life is increasingly strengthening the standard of people and at the same time reducing the quality of their social and family life because more and more of them are looking for the time they need to spend for work, for other activities and for themselves and for their family and for their own care. And in such a situation, security is disrupted on the one hand, on the other hand, the possibility and on the third hand the focus of each other and at the same time the need for people to raise their standards to an even higher level, given the exceptional number of offers that arise and that potentiate people's needs to develop their standards. In such a situation, it is not realistic to expect that the ultimate policy will actually address the issue of population policy in the Republic of Croatia. And in that segment one other question that is extremely important should be opened, and that is so-called. An emigration issue which, of course, should be related not only to members or primarily to members and citizens of the Republic of Croatia who, for economic and other reasons, have left the Republic of Croatia in due time, moved but also must not be ignored the fact that in contemporary economic and political movements there will be more and more situations of population in the Republic of Croatia from other countries and from other areas of today's Europe and the world, and in such a situation, the possibility of immigration policy needs to be opened that these people can become involved in economic, cultural and any other system. E, but these measures are not adequately accepted or elaborated in this population programme and we will have to deal with the question of the necessary population for further development and breakthrough of the Republic of Croatia for its own citizens and the creation of economic and social benefits. Another thing I would like to point out, we have ignored in this programme an entire programme and a whole question that is extremely present all these years, especially in the creation of an independent and sovereign Republic of Croatia and as a consequence of the Homeland War and the actions of the aggressors in the Republic of Croatia. It is a matter of returning displaced persons, exiled persons and refugees to their homes. We have to take care of this because we have whole areas that are actually white zones that do not have enough population to maintain natural potential and put it into the economic function of developing the region as well as the development of the entire Republic of Croatia. We have all the programs that we have brought to the House, we have passed laws that we have potential, we solve and we stimulate these issues to be resolved, but at the same time we haven't found the right place in this project, or in this document to properly put this issue, and in an appropriate way, it is actually presented and potentiated. The third group of issues is extremely important. It is difficult to talk about the population policy programme, therefore, as a document that is implementing and implementing in a situation where there is a need to ensure an increase or actually address a difficult situation in population policy today in Croatia with trends of further deterioration and at the same time we do not have an appropriate adopted strategy for economic, cultural and in-house social development of the country. It is difficult to actually talk about how to implement it without people being able to see their position in the economic and social system, their position in the cultural and security system of the Republic of Croatia, or at least to have indicative tendencies in which it is going. Why? Because, in fact, the ultimate policy as the most important factor in solving population policy is both emotional, rational and of course every other function of a human being and man wants to have a certainty in which tomorrow's position will be able to have and raise and put in such a position. Therefore, we must also take care of this and only then take care of additional economic and social measures to create adequate security for the family. As you can see, I'm deliberately talking about family. I'm not talking about families. I'm not talking about those families that are only by birth, but about those families where family members are involved where those who live together are connected and I'm also talking about the possibility of adopting or fostering children who will be abandoned, who will not be in... The Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why? Because we must create this attempt to create conditions for our families to actually give best support to the integration of these children into the social, political and cultural system of the Republic of Croatia, not to be in their homes. You know, homes are necessarily evil, but if it's possible to actually create conditions to address these issues in families. There's one more thing I need to emphasize in particular. A whole series of proposed measures and objectives are so numbered that the real question of their feasibility is very questionable. I'll just open any side so I'll do, here's the next 30 goals when it comes to tax relief. Improve and expand the system of existing tax reliefs, include tax reliefs to address the housing issue on the basis of the number of children, develop a family credit system. No one has kept in this segment any account of the restrictions relating to the adjustment of the political and legal system of the Republic of Croatia in relation to the European Union and the relations that must be established in the Republic of Croatia if we want to establish the values that are present there. Therefore, some of these issues that are desirable and would be good if they could be regulated simply will not be regulated because of, for example, the reduction or differentiated VAT rates, etc., at least so far, it has been officially interpreted and that there is actually another relevant instrument to address these issues in order to create stimulating measures. Or for example, take page 36 again goals. Making assumptions about full employment to a working-age population. But it is not possible, not only without an active employment policy, but an active employment policy as a consequence, economic development, a new investment boom that will create new jobs and create positions for economic growth, development, breakthrough and an adequate profit that can actually be lived in quality. At the same time, we still have a situation where one of the stimulating measures should be tax reliefs in areas that are in a difficult economic situation where actually these tax reliefs don't mean much because there's no one to pay taxes, there's nothing to earn. We need to talk about what these will be projects where the social and state communities will participate through direct investment and job creation. Of course, one that will give the right results and which will have a market pass and success. Along with the local community, along with domestic and foreign business people and so on. Or take page 42 for example. To create spatial, humane and other assumptions about the application of childcare adapted to the different needs of parents and children of age, forgive colleagues if we are going to create this, and how are we going to implement the Social Care Act? We have a law that regulates something different from what is mentioned here, and in fact, the question is, let us implement the law, and not all of a sudden bring the programme to the program, the law to the law, but in fact not, we're misleading ourselves where we think that institutional, institutional, and legal normativeism and political opportunism can solve all the issues in itself. Well, no, it is necessary to create and change living conditions that will actually stimulate man in adapting and adapting these new living conditions to his personal and family issues in such a way that, among other things, he and every other policy contributes to the resolution and population policy in the Republic of Croatia with one, as an individual approach and at the same time as the social community, we must open these immigration processes that will enable us to actually address the problem of a population deficit today in the Republic of Croatia compared to its economic, natural and any other potential that could give far more in life for all of us if we address these issues in quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-16-0.u75712	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government Units, and we'll probably discuss the law tomorrow and end the working week. Proposal for a national population policy. I am voting on the National Population Policy Proposal. Please, we can vote. The result? With 77 votes for and 4 abstentions and 4 against the adopted National Population Policy Proposal. In accordance with the proposal for a Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, I am voting on the following conclusion: the Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to submit once a year a report to the Croatian Parliament on the implementation of measures established by national population policy. Please vote. The result? With 83 votes for, 2 abstentions and one against the proposed conclusion.
