ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u60960	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Here, the Government prepares and implements the reform of the electoral system and one of the reform measures is the establishment of the State Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia as a professional, professional body, body of general trust. We must say that we are satisfied with the quality of the work of the election committee so far, that the elections held in Croatia were presidential, parliamentary or local, whether regularly or extraordinaryly implemented and in a legal manner and that this was such a practice and role of the State Election Commission but also of all participants in the election process included the Republic of Croatia in the order of countries with high democracy, a democratic tradition. But development must go on. A general agreement has been created in society and the political public that the State Election Commission must be professionalised and, in particular, in light of the proposal that even in future mayors, municipal mayors and mayors are elected in direct elections, which undoubtedly leads to opportunities and frequent extraordinary elections in certain local areas. We believe that we need to establish a permanent body that will play a legally prescribed role in the exercise of control over the legality of the implementation of the elections. We propose that the State Election Commission has seven members, that they be graduate lawyers with a considerable working experience in the affairs of the legal profession and with the knowledge of the electoral and political system. For the president, we foresee the condition of 12 years of work experience and for vice presidents and members of at least 10 years of work experience in the profession. The general imperative is that, as an impartial body, members of the State Election Commission cannot be members of political parties or candidates in the elections to be held. The selection model must also guarantee impartiality so that we propose that the commission be elected for eight years, that its mandate be stabilised, that it be politically protected from possible shifts after each election, but we also want the composition to be so balanced that all political factors in society influence in some way the choice of the State Election Commission. The president of the commission would be elected on the basis of a public invitation to candidates who meet the conditions and would be elected by the Croatian Parliament, of course, on a proposal from the competent selection and appointment committee. One vice-president and two members would be elected on a parliamentary majority proposal and the other vice-president and two other members on a proposal for parliamentary opposition, of course at the time when the commission is elected. In addition to the powers placed on the commission by the electoral laws, we see him as an active participant in the upgrade of the electoral system. Therefore, this future State Election Commission would give opinions on the addition and improvement of electoral legislation, would conduct education of members of election committees, county election committees, election units, election commissions of cities and municipalities, inform citizens about the implementation of elections and the possibility of exercising electoral rights and to perform any other technical needs concerning the preservation of the archive building related to the elections, as this is certainly an important part of Croatian history. It may be pointed out that, unlike the first reading, we extended the obligation of the State Election Commission in such a way that it must submit a report to the Croatian Assembly of the body that chooses it within 60 days of the date of publication of the official election results, so it must report to the Croatian Parliament on the conduct of the elections. It is our vision and in the legal reform of the electoral legislation that we intend to regulate this by law on voters' lists to take responsibility for the conduct of the voter list, but this will be regulated by a special regulation. Anyone elected on that day must be relieved, so we predict that a member of the electoral commission before the end of the term of office may be resolved if he so requests, if he loses his permanent ability to carry out his duty, if he is tried for a criminal offence, if he loses any of the conditions necessary for the election, for example if he is running in any election or whether he is, enters a political party, or if he does not fulfil his duties in accordance with the law and rules of procedure on the work of the commission. That will certainly be decided by this High House. Ladies and gentlemen, we have tried to anticipate all possible emergency situations, so in this final draft of the law, we have tried to address the situation normally that at the moment the elections are discussed, when the Croatian Parliament does not meet the conditions laid down by law for the termination of the term of office before the term of office of the members of the State Election Commission so that the body can work uninterruptedly, we have provided for this extraordinary situation so that the Croatian Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia may appoint members of the Election Commission but only for these elections until the Croatian Parliament is established until the Croatian Parliament has appointed permanent members of the Election Commission. The National Election Commission will have a professional service. We insist that the Secretary of the Commission and the Deputy Secretary of the Commission must also not be a member of political parties in order to protect the Commission from possible political influence. In the transitional provisions, we predict that the Croatian Parliament will choose the Election Commission within 90 days, but until the start of the new National Election Commission, it will continue with the work of the so far State Election Commission. In addition to the creation of a professional body, we will achieve a specific goal, which is that we will release judges predominantly of the Supreme Court and the Administrative Court obligations in the conduct of the elections, and thus we will believe to strengthen the efficiency of the Supreme Court and of the Administrative Court and of all those who have participated in the work of the State Election Commission, and for this period they could not carry out the duties, the tasks for which they were elected. Since the law was supported in the first reading, since we have observed the numerous remarks that this text was corrected by the Government suggest that you adopt this law so that the State Election Commission could be adopted as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u60961	Thank you. Legislative Committee, for the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Committee President-in-Office Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u60962	Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament at the 52nd session held on 28 and 29 March 2006 discussed the Final Proposal of the Law on the State Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 16 March 2006. The Committee discussed the draft law on the basis of the competences set out in Article 57. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In the debate, the Committee supported the solution set out in the final draft law. The Committee maintains that it is necessary to clarify the provisions of the final draft law on the implementation of the selection procedure of the President, Vice-President and members of the Commission, and on the part-stakes carried out by the Commission in particular by the provisions which prescribe the commission to provide guidelines for the addition of electoral legislation and legislation governing the questions of the referendum, and to establish the organisation of the expert commission service. After the debate, the Committee unanimously proposed that the Croatian Parliament adopt the Law on the State Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you. Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club supports and accepts the Proposal for a Law on the State Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia. As we know from the multilaterals that have been held in the Republic of Croatia since 1990, many elections have already been held and all these elections have been followed up. We have had monitoring and NGOs and international institutions, and for all these elections that have been held so far, we have actually received good grades and some significant remarks in the conduct of these elections, so that we can be satisfied with both the way and the organisation of the elections, including the bodies that have held these elections. However, as we know so far, the greatest burden in the conduct of the elections has fallen on our judges, the judges of the Supreme Court, the County Courts, the Municipal Courts, and in view of all the remarks we have on the work of the judicial authorities in the Republic of Croatia, we must be aware of one fact that is in some way easier than they are. When elections are held they are the month out of their courtrooms today. They've been working on the organisation and implementation of these elections for a month, and their basic tasks, which is actually law enforcement related to the functioning of the courts, are then in the second plan and only those emergency procedures are being carried out. It is this law that is now proposed and adopted by European standards that is the implementation of the experiences of highly developed democratic countries and in our legal system. With this law, we establish the State Election Commission as a permanent and independent body that will continuously and continuously take care of the organisation and implementation of the elections. So, it's not a campaign job, it's not a job when it's an election, so now we're gonna get together with the courts to organise an Electoral Commission and let's get this job done. This is now a job that will be taken care of by a permanent body that will be appointed by the Croatian Parliament and we believe that it is a significant and major step in developing our democratic institutions of society. We also supported this law in our first reading, and I believe that it is as prepared for the second reading as it is even better and even more quality, because it includes a number of provisions, and a number of remarks that we had on it in the first reading. I would particularly like to point out that it is embedded in Article 17 and the statement of the Venice Commission which regulates a legal situation that was not covered by the first draft law, and this is certainly an important improvement in the text. As we can see, the State Election Commission would consist of seven members, presidents, two vice presidents and three members. On the other hand, I don't think there's any objections. The president would be a graduate lawyer, 10 years of experience in the profession, knowledge of the political system, and these are also criteria for vice presidents and members. So, one great expertise is required, one experience is required which is, of course, necessary for these elections to be well-organised and well-qualityd. The State Election Commission must have logistics because it is a huge big deal so there is no doubt that it must also have a professional service to deal with administrative affairs. This provides for the establishment of such a professional service. It is predicted that the secretary of the professional service will manage the ministry, and that is also something we must accept. With regard to all the elections we've had so far since these elections have been held so far as I've already said well and professionally and professionally, we already have one developed infrastructure in people who actually worked on election boards, these really aren't people professionals, these are people who did the jobs on the ground that are necessary for the elections to be held quality and good. So that one infrastructure of people is likely to be included in any other election. So here is the Croatian Democratic Community Club, which supports the adoption of this law, we believe that we accept European standards and the State Election Commission as a permanent body, we believe that it will work even better than it has ever been before, and we believe that it will contribute to further building our electoral system as it will monitor the elections continuously and will actually be at the source of information, so it will be able to deliver its proposals to us, of course, in order to build an even better and more quality electoral system than we have today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u60964	Thank you. HNS club, respected representative Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u60965	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, this Law on the State Election Commission, is one in a whole set of laws aimed at regulating the electoral procedure in the Republic of Croatia. It is, of course, important to commend the intensity resulting from the consent of all political factors actually in Croatia, all political parties, that this body should become a professional body. There's more reason. One is that the work is done on and he has so far been done in a satisfactory manner. The objections to the work of the State Election Commission have not actually been much, however, to be carried out in one professional way, and especially since the elections have been frequented. We have such selection cycles that practically every year something is going on, and by applying the new Law on the direct selection of local and regional self-government leaders, it is expected that elections will actually be more choices in smaller units of time, so this state body, which will be the authority of this Parliament, the body of this Parliament, will have a permanent and practical job. It should be pointed out that local election committees, so that county, municipalities, cities and all others, remain as they were, so they will not be professional. In the first reading, there were suggestions that a professional act at the county level, and now there is no more in the text and no good to be gone. I think it's perfectly unnecessary, at least most these elections don't take place often in all units of local self-government and regional to make it necessary for professionals to operate at these levels. What is not in the text of the law is concern about the lists of voters, it was the same as one of the proposals in the first reading, it seemed to me that it stood, that the State Election Commission should take care of the lists of voters. The list of voters is the basis for any good electoral system and that we have come from the creation of the Law on the Selection of Local Leaders, the direct selection of local leaders, the Law on Local Self-Government, the procedure also shows the Law on the Selection of Parliamentary Representatives and we have not definitely arranged the Law on the Selection of the List, the list of voters, it seems to me bad. We should have started from the very beginning, our voters' lists are strange, some times and nakaradic, there are places where there are more voters than residents. It's the whole process, in fact, the legality of the whole process, that puts the whole thing at risk. It was supposed to be the first step, but it wasn't. This document that appeared before us is thought to be well done, that its intensities are good and that solutions are acceptable. Of course, there are objections. Articles 5 and 8 discuss the election of presidents, vice presidents and members of the State Election Commission and write that it is necessary to know the political and electoral system of the Republic of Croatia. It is to be assumed that people who know the system will appear in such a body, but yet someone should check it out, and I think Article 4 would say who is proposing the president, or members should introduce the obligation to talk, to talk to candidates in the relevant parliamentary committee who is the proposing member and president of the National Election Commission. So what it says in the legal text is also a verification mechanism. Article 11 speaks of what the National Election Commission is doing. I've already said that there's no list of voters inside in the affairs, I don't know where they're going to be, which state body will take final care of the voters' lists, this obviously won't. It says inside that the State Election Commission is giving opinions on the improvement of the system, which is quite ok. It is also the work of the State Election Commission, but it also writes that it gives guidance. Guidelines are practically the acts of the bodies that are required for the person to whom they are referred. If the State Election Commission gives guidance to whom it can give, I suppose to the Parliament, I don't know, who changes the electoral system, the guidelines by definition must be respected, this would mean that the State Election Commission is giving mandatory instructions to the Croatian Parliament, which I don't think is good, and I think that word: "routions" should simply be removed from the text. Article 13 has made something that we have been insisting on for years. A complete incompatibility of duty has been established. A member of the National Election Commission cannot be anything else. That's good, and I think that principle should be introduced for all other functions. It is partly introduced in the proposal of the Law on the Selection of Local and Regional Self-Government Leaders, it is not in the current Law on the Selection of Parliamentary Representatives, we believe that it should stand in one and the other place, so that man can be in a position in which he is only in one function. If someone is a parliamentary representative, then he can't be mayor, he can't be mayor and vice versa. If someone is a member of the State Election Commission, it can't be any of it, plus something else. In Article 17, it regulates the replacement appointment of members, i.e. the President and Vice-President of the Election Commission in a situation where the Assembly does not act, when it is dissolved or is summer fairer or something like that. The function of the Assembly shall be taken over by the Constitutional Court and appointed by the members of the National Election Commission until such time as the Parliament can do so. There is, of course, the danger of disrupting the political balance at this point, as it is the State Election Commission. Half called the opposition, half named the position. I think there should be a mechanism to protect this balance. Article 24 discusses the Secretary of State's Election Commission, his deputy and their political engagement. They cannot be members of the political party. They're civil servants. State officials may be members of the political party. This is actually a derrogation of the provisions of the Civil Service Act. The question is, how constitutional is it? I mean, I'm not saying it's unconstitutional, but the question is, if someone were to turn to the Constitutional Court to get through this situation. On the other hand, I think that the law should regulate that neither the secretary nor the state officials employed in the State Election Commission should be actively involved in political work, so they must not appear on the electoral lists, etc. Of course they work with these materials. There could have been an adverse impact, and I think it's actually a solution, so they're banned from active participation in political work in the sense that they can't be candidates on election lists. I don't actually see any justice, no constitutional justification to ban them from membership in political parties as officials. All in all, the Croatian People's Party believes this is a good step forward to support. If it's possible to make some of these changes, we'd be more pleased with this bill, but we'll support it as it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u60966	Thank you. PGS club, SBH, MDS, respected representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u60967	Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen. Let our club also briefly refer to the adoption of the State Election Commission Act. So we certainly support this law, even if we have something we could say conceptually. For a long time, there has been a need to pass this law, and in our opinion, there are some problems that arise in our local, presidential and parliamentary elections just as well generated by the fact that there is no permanent State Election Commission. So a commission that would react at any moment to problems that often occur in our electoral system. So all this falls on the back here is our secretary of state and the office, and I think we need to form this State Election Commission to make such problems much less difficult. Just to remind you that the State Election Commission has existed so far, and it is based on some other laws, the Laws on selecting MPs. Yes, for example, in Article 53. The Law on Elections of Representatives therefore exists in Article 53 that there is a State Commission and that it also has a permanent and extended composition, and that the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia is in office and the President of the State Election Commission. In the debates, therefore, and in the first reading of this law, even when I proposed the same law last year, I was warned that it was one position for the Supreme Court president, because he, along with his job which he must do, is a very important and important job, must occasionally do the job of the President of the National Election Commission. So we came into a situation where such election committees were formed right before the election. Here, a commission was formed before the election for the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia. It happened 52 days before the election. Before last year's local elections, the commission was formed only 45 days before the vote was called. This commission should therefore prepare the elections within that short period, monitor the preparation process, monitor the elections themselves, respond to the remarks etc. We don't think that was a good solution, and we really need to have a permanent body to deal with that problem. The more we said there was a lot of trouble. And what is also important is that such a commission may react to the problems that lie ahead. I am particularly pointing out the part about the commission's work. Article 11(1) states that the Commission has jobs to give opinions and guidelines for the addition and improvement of electoral legislation, and legislation regulating the matter of the referendum. Now, that we, if we now had this State Election Commission, that it could now provide guidance for the addition and improvement of electoral legislation, would certainly not have come into the situation that the government is proposing certain changes in our electoral system, and I am thinking primarily of the Law on the direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors, I mean the announced changes that were announced at the government's session last week where the government could relieve the directly elected mayor at the request of the representative body, i.e. 2/3 of the councilor or the councilman of that representative body. We therefore think that this proposed solution is unacceptable and that it does not have a foothold in domestic legislation, nor is it applied in any country with a democratic tradition. Moreover, such a solution is a step backwards and has already been assessed in 1996 by an unconstitutional decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. By that decision, the Constitutional Court abolished as an unconstitutional provision of the then applicable Law on Local Self-Government and Administration, which allowed the central government authorities to resolve the mayor. So now I have a proposal from the government that, if there were a State Election Commission, there would be experts who would certainly not support it. I hope, then, that by the second reading of the proposal for a law on direct elections we will not get such a solution because it will be both easy and disprove. What we still have...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u60968	Well, we'll discuss that recently.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u60969	Yes, we will.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u60970	Soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u60971	Soon. I hope so. So what we still have an observation is that this body should be permanent, independent and professional. So this law keeps making the whole thing come true. The same expertise with the fact that we think that the order of experts should include graduate politologists, but we don't think this body is independent. Because actually, out of the 7 members of the State Election Commission, only one member would be independent until the end, which means the President of the Commission. The other 6 members would be with 1 vice president and 2 members would be elected in a way that means half the majority political party, and the other half would be elected on the proposal of opposition political parties. So these six would be dependent on political structures. At least it was minimal but if someone suggests you whether on this or, directly or indirectly, one way or another you must represent their interests. We think that this is not good and that we should protect this body from various political influences but rather that it is essentially an independent body in most of its part. The body, therefore, in which it would allow the work of experts in this area. Therefore, we think conceptually that it would have been better if the government had suggested that the state commission had its permanent and expanded composition. In my law, for example, I suggested that the permanent composition has seven members. In that composition, there would be experts who would be chosen by a public invitation. They would be elected by the Parliament, and these 6 would therefore be representatives of political parties, in the right sense of the words, so that there would be a balance between the profession and the policy, because politics must therefore have control over the entire electoral system. In our first reading, we also noted that the Croatian Parliament has a major impact on the formation and selection of this State Election Commission has the opportunity to see into the work of the National Election Commission, so we suggested that this commission be given a report once a year to the Parliament on the current situation in our electoral system. What reforms I propose, what happened in the meantime, and so on. So here are the people who are the same from the Assembly as MPs and experts, so on the working bodies, they can make their remarks on the current situation in the electoral system. That hasn't happened yet. So we're going to try to fix it with an amendment and hopefully that amendment will be accepted. There's our club, the PGS Club of the SBS, so the NDS will accept this law, but it's our first step to ensure what's most important is the regularity of our choices, which we've heard often take place in our municipalities, cities and counties, which, unfortunately, happen and some things that shouldn't happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u60972	Thank you. The IDS Club is a respected representative of Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u60973	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Yes, here we have before us this final draft law on the state electoral commission. They've got all the states. The Republic of Croatia will understandably have it. But to be so free and to notice that whoever stabs a pardon gets a job in the state election committee, he can say to himself freely afterwards that he's got a week at the lottery. I'm not going to say that they're imaginary jobs, but the fact is that de facto is done every criminal year. However, I said the institution has all the states and it is obvious that the state electoral commission will also have the Republic of Croatia. But the truth does what the commission does? He's running clear elections. Until now, it has been done by the Supreme Court or by county courts and is all in this country when the elections were due. Now we'll get a commission with seven people, a president, two vice presidents and four members of the commission. It is clear that there will now be some professional service with at least another 7, perhaps 10, perhaps more workers and all of them 365 days a year if we take away clear holidays, Sundays, and so on, which means doing those 17, 20 people don't even know God. Why do I say you get that job where your term lasts for 8 years, where everyone will be re-elected that it's like getting a week at the lottery. So because it is to assume that they will all be re-elected because half of these candidates are proposed under quotes and choices, everyone chooses but proposes the opposition, half of the ruling coalition and at the end of 8 years we will again be clear as the people or those who sit in this Parliament agree to be confirmed by another mandate. Good for its sake, because of the new pardon for the imperfect bill on the election of mayors, mayors, mayors, because of the undefined relationship between the Council and mayor there is the possibility of a slightly more frequent election but still, gentlemen, that this commission will work 365 days a year when we know for ourselves how and what intensity elections in the Republic of Croatia are. It is therefore said in Article 11 that they give an opinion, guidelines for addition, improvement of electoral legislation, names members of the County Election Commission, city election committees, education of members of the electoral commission, informs citizens about the implementation of elections and clearly conducts the tasks prescribed by the laws to be regulated: the election of representatives, presidents, the selection of members of the representative bodies of local self-government units and so on. But let's be realistic now how much they have to do with it? The president of the state is elected once every five years. We choose MPs once every four years. So are the mayors and mayors. All along the election cycle, it's not more than two months of work and we're aware of that. So three election cycles, six months about work. So much for that. Article 13, I quote: "The President, Vice-Presidents, members of the commission during their duties cannot perform any other professional duty or duty whose conduct would lead to doubts about their impartiality, disrupt their moral integrity, the reputation they enjoy in public, etc., etc." My suggestion that I may be elected, I absolutely agree to their appearance before the committee of the Parliament, which Mr Veljanic is talking about. So my proposal is that only those who have never been members of any political option, or that they have never been on any list, any party, or so-called independent list. Although clearly, there are no independent ones and what it turns into when independent interventions may be the best example of this Zagreb example and the example of Mrs Holjevac, but on another occasion. Article 14, I quote: "The President, Vice-Presidents, members of the committee during the conduct of their duties may do scientific and professional work and research, professional and scientific work, participate in the work of expert scientific meetings in the preparation of draft regulations, etc., etc." It should be prescribed that they must neither support any list, any party or independent, etc. That principle is now inaugurated by the President of the State. I don't worry about it too much, but you should tell that gentleman in the State Election Commission, you've been given an alleged job and be happy about it and don't in any way provoke. Article 15(1) states that, I quote, "The term of office of the President, the Vice-President and the member of the committee shall cease before they expire in the event of death in the event of discharge from office". Then you don't run here "if you ask for it yourself, if it permanently loses its ability, etc., etc." I think we should level in this case standards. They should be resolved under the same conditions, for example, as well as the mayors and mayors. Clearly, the resolution of a member of the State Election Commission can only be carried out by the Parliament, cannot be done by the Government, which is certainly not good when it comes to the resolution of the mayor, mayor or mayor. But I think that these simply standards should be fully evened between them and this State Election Commission. Article 16(1) quotes: "if the President, Vice-President, asks the Commissioner to be relieved of his duties, and the Croatian Parliament does not make a decision means that the member of the commission shall be suspended by law by the expiry of the period of 3 months from the date of submission of the application". That's absolutely logical. But once again, I would like to stress that it would really be good for this legislative proposal to introduce in Article 4, the possibility for the candidate to be held as a member of the National Election Commission to be held with the committee, I do not know, as in some cases ambassadors, consuls and other diplomats appointed by the Republic of Croatia to these responsible functions. Article 23 speaks clearly of professional service, I have already said something, but also if these have their own self-port and have nothing to do, why, for example, MPs wouldn't have any of their own minisports. All those bodies, gentlemen, that we're forming, all those agencies, all those funds, all those offices, I know, election commissions, etc., all are in an incomparably better position than the parliamentary representative, and then we wonder what some hold to the Parliament as to last year's snow. Let us not, gentlemen, simply underestimate ourselves and let us not degrade ourselves through such a form of Parliament. For last, clearly, we copy others. It's okay, but we also have to admit it costs. This election commission if we count roughly with 15 people who should be working in it will cost between 3 and 4 million kunas a year, plus at the start of at least a million, a million and a half kuna to edit the space provided that we already have reserved spaces in which the State Election Commission will be placed. As usual in this argument at the end, the opposition's objections were not accepted. It's a good thing they were respected in some cases. Well, I'm glad to say, maybe this isn't the place to say, that this is where Vice Vuks' initiatives are mentioned, which we seem to have forgotten a little bit. But for the end, when this legislative proposal is in turn, according to that people's "where are all Turks here and Little Mujo", so if everyone votes out clearly, the IDS will also support this initiative. I repeat, life would not have stopped in the Republic of Croatia even if we didn't have this State Election Commission, but obviously it is a European standard which, as such and in its legal, legal legislation, or property will apply in future, the Republic of Croatia. So much, really, I don't think this legal proposal, with any small things, is absolutely not controversial.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u60974	Thank you. HSLS Club, Honored Representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u60975	Thank you, Mr. President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At first, let's say the HSLS Club will support this initiative. What my colleague Cain is saying, you see, democracy costs, and we simply have some institutions to set up, we have to let them be professional, be independent, and that their real work can work properly on our universal satisfaction. Also, I think that each of us, since we have been involved in these political processes for more or less all 15 years, can say that within 10 years, the last 10 years have changed a lot for the better. What is the fact that Croatia has one large number, that is, to go from choice to choice. This in some ways also testifies to certain transition problems that each such country faces and that from a certain, to a balance at a time must come. One of the assumptions that this balance is created is that this State Election Commission is actually a permanent professional body that will not really form an ad hoc before the elections, but rather, it would have certain obligations all the time. We can really think about what he's going to do now that he doesn't have a choice, but it seems to me that there's still a lot of problems within our society that we've been doing this pretty much, now that we've been taking it this casually, and we've simply determined them, but we've been aware every time that many things don't work out. If it weren't for the voters' list, we could see for ourselves the last time after the presidential elections when we really unnecessarily created just one feeling objective that something was wrong and that there should be a change. We think that exactly the State Election Commission is one of those bodies that, when institutionalized, when it really becomes autonomous in its business, might be one of those bodies that should do this work, which doesn't mean that we don't need to work on the List of Voters Act as soon as possible, that we're really alone calm and that we get this object out of this game at all. It is very important that there is a single voter's trust in our political processes, and thus the electoral process, that the electoral process indeed takes place correctly, that when people go to elections and when they vote then they really know that this voice, that it is respectable, that it decides and that their political will will be respected. Certainly yet, I do not think that the State Election Commission will be able to solve all the problems that will arise there, I see that in many observations it is said that there should also be certain information over the financing, over the promotion of the elections, it is indeed happening that some are too represented, almost to the offensive number of sports, the number of opportunities for the appearance of jumbo posters, and while indeed many other political parties are simply unable to speak in this way of speaking these challenges, or which one election game is carrying with them, that there should be one particular game rules that should apply to all and to those who have a lot less than that, it is certainly the same thing that would help this political culture in some way achieve us. Is it good that members of the State Election Commission should only be elected by the Parliament? We think it's not bad, but there were some of these objects on the round table that was organised last year at the beginning of December when at the round table next to representatives of international institutions who were also interested in the President of the Parliament and Prime Minister of the Government, they showed in fact a high degree of sensitivity by both the Parliament and the Government on this issue. There was the possibility that some other branches of state authorities and institutions, in particular the Constitutional Institute, would also participate in selecting candidates for members of the State Election Commission by having a specific advisory function related above all to candidate qualifications and I say it would be logical to assume that the assessment of qualifications by another institution besides the Parliament itself could be easily brought into line with the basic requirement of competence and independence of candidates. It also seems to us that this would be good and that this very one would question the impartiality of integrity or the public reputation of these people would be significantly reduced. Same length of mandate. It's, but eight years long or little, it's all actually relative. The term of office of the Constitutional Court, judges of the Constitutional Court, is also 8 years old, Supreme Court, Advocate General. We think that it is nothing in itself and the Priory does not guarantee it, and we, on some level, have to offer this very minimum of trust in what is happening, but there is also that in some ways the length of the mandate could be degreeed so that not all of them really are, that there really is this one certain and continuity, that not everyone has to change at the same time so that in some ways we can predict that everyone does not come from the same day, the current mandate does not begin. It also resolves them, members of the State Election Commission, that this is done by the Parliament, normally in order for members to have to rest solely on good reasons. They are legitimate reasons for the reduction, should be detailed and procedures should be designed to address issues related to the membership of members of the commission. All relevant activities in this respect should be encouraged in the Assembly as a whole, although the relevant committee may also have its advisory function in this regard. That's what I'm saying, too, we totally agree. What I'm saying to us seems to be very important right now is that, however, the State Election Commission is also going to get the opportunity to fix itself exactly and focus its activity when there is no choice, and it is really on the voters' list to prepare that database as soon as possible, which I say will allow us to never question those lists again. The same thing as the problem, which is a colleague of Horvatin as the President of the Supreme Court pointed out if only the judges, or he suggested that the judges actually withdraw from the process. It's on this, state level it's acceptable. When we try to bring it down to this lower level then it seems a little harder, because already in all these election processes at the county and city levels the judges of the county courts participate. Is there really people in every community who would be qualified without being judges? It's also such a big question, not to go too far with this one of our projections that I don't know we have with a lot of people who could do this job and certainly that at a lower level this role of these commissions should be ad hoc and she really thinks I should... Only when the time of choice comes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, I say once again with some of this perhaps small hints we really believe that the next election processes in Croatia will be even better, I say, although we are also honest and admit within 10 years until... All this is going much better than at the very beginning, but they always say, the way around the world always starts with the first step and the first kittens are being thrown into the water, yet we must admit that the elections are taking place in Croatia and confirm that Croatia is a democratic and modern country and that what is the most important results of the elections are always recognised and that no one is questioning them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u60976	Thank you. SDP club, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u60977	Thank you, Mr. President, dear Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. The SDP Club supported the Bill on the State Election Commission in its first reading, and would also support this Final Bill proposal, but here is the call at the beginning of this opening presentation, saying on behalf of the SDP Club that it is just about to remove certain concerns that I will explain in practice and having the experience of many committees whose similar work and way of work simply recaptures this commission in this final proposal of the law, I think that the Proposer should consider them in good time and we, at the SDP Club, propose and accept the amendments and these suggestions. In fact, the basic thought of the leadership was well accepted in the public that just following modern modern solutions, a permanent state commission that would therefore exclusively have this concern would be established and would deal exclusively with this business. This earlier track is also the requirement of a permanent and already frequent request by the Supreme Court judges who have asked for legislation, from the legislative body to deprive them of this painful and difficult work which significantly burdens their daily order and distances them from their basic function, the function of the trial. And that's exactly what this idea was all about. However, it is a pity that we, speaking at the first proposal of this law, said that it was a pity why the proposer did not just follow that call and that suggestion, and at the end of the day, and the search for judges went to the end and deprived the whole of the court to deal with this work because we only solved a few judges while a number of judges, judges of the County Court, judges of the municipal court, the courts in the Republic of Croatia will still be burdened and overloaded with this very kind of work, but perhaps there is a time on the trail that the motionor will also consider this further reform of our electoral legislation where it will be consistent and the judges will deprive these cases that are not the affairs of the trial. What seems very important to me and what burdens every election, which is to determine the list of voters and who the voters are in the Republic of Croatia. It is something that upsets the Croatian public from election to election. We have voters even more than residents. We see, these last presidential elections that just to that extent have upset the public where dead souls have voted. And that is why I think this Final Proposal of the Law on the State Election Commission as we at the SDP Club and we believe that the deterioration of the situation is precisely on this important remark of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which is taking away the responsibility of the Commission's affairs as set out in the list of voters. The promoter explained that there would be a new Law on the List of Voters, and then it was logical for us to discuss the list together, this new bill on the List of Voters together with this final proposal of the Law on the State Election Commission, because in this situation, we had just such an unsettled situation that was constantly exciting and with the right public. So, now to deprive the commission of this key job I don't think it's good. It's not good on that particular trail of so far-time objections and experiences. We today cannot get the results of who voted, how many voters, voters in individual units, so that they can ultimately implement the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. On this same trail, the Central State Office, ultimately the Government itself, had to react in a completely wrong way that the 2001 census was relevant and not a list of voters with an explanation, along with the Government, please explain that the voters' lists are not arranged. And we, that's what the government openly admits, and through that kind of situation, we're always going to go to the polls. So the government itself has not recognised the list of voters that led to these last local elections. So, just so that such things don't happen, that there are doubts in the public who are just manipulating the number of voters, that we don't talk about double law, acting or certain persons who do not always reside in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, with a known situation that, for example, in Makarska, a law of physics has been defeated, there are more reported than they can stand objectively per square metre. So we have this situation, and we all know that, that's how it's determined. That's what the police have after all. It can't even be pleasant because there's so many that they don't have height, they only have width and length, so much can stop them. Therefore, now only the commission to deprive this most responsible job, which would be in those situations where elections are not being held, as stated by counterpart Cain, it would be a key job of this particular commission that is constantly in contact with the authorised body at the Ministry of the Interior which is keeping that record in order to be able to control and, ultimately, the commission would have the power to react in the event of citizens being observed, because that is exactly what we want to achieve or should also be achieved by this final draft of the law. After all, the Commission itself will not have that reputation in citizens unless we give it the opportunity, the legal possibility that it performs this function and this activity that has caused so much reluctance with the right to our public. It is therefore clear from the provision of Article 3 that the commission will have seven members. However, there remains a question which has also been raised in the legal profession and theory of how the commission works. Whether it can act in the back of a court, whether it is approximately the composition of a court that has a certain number by law and its decisions can only be valid if that number is reached. However, from further provisions, it is obviously not so, although the job of these members, vice presidents and presidents is professional. Therefore, this should be taken into account to make it impossible for the furry composition to be prevented, that eventually members and vice-presidents should be disciplined, after all, by the president himself or by the overall commission. We had a situation where individual committees that have just appointed and the Parliament did not, they acted for a year, two without need, without the law of the required members. It's something that the theory just feels should be defined by law. In Articles 5 and 8, which speak of the qualifications of the President, the Vice-President and the members, I do not think it is sufficient to establish just what professional profile these persons must have. What is particularly important about this is that individuals must enjoy an uncontested public reputation. Regardless of their formal education and education. It is from theirs that their rightful word depends also on the reputations enjoyed by the public. And that is something that needs to be explicitly incorporated into the norm of Articles 5 and 8. In Article 7, which states how, the way vice presidents or members are elected, it is evident that the majority will have the previous majority and three will have opposition. But the opposition is also a charm. Sometimes it figures as an opposition and basically supports the coalition so that it is often there and there is a problem of how a certain candidate should be expelled who should figure out as an opposition proposal. In order to avoid this, it is necessary to react in Article 7 that it is certainly necessary to suggest this one joint proposal but, if it does not occur, that such a proposal comes from those who have a majority in the opposition. So in accordance with the party's composition, as stated but not alternatively, we will react with the amendment, or in the event that this consensus in the opposition is not reached so that we have an exit situation for such a possible situation. In Article 11, which speaks about the detour of the commission other than what I have mentioned, which should in no way be deprived of merely the commission of responsibility to keep the list of voters very important that this commission is obliged to communicate with the public right now in such a way that each of those elected parties has the right to request and have the right to obtain information from the Commission itself. Not only from authorized bodies, but from anyone who addresses the commission. In the end, it also obliges the Law on Access to Information. Thus, it seems in this way that we only protected the commission from public influence, from questions and there will be various queries. Therefore, his work would be transparent, so that the commission could fully fulfil its task should be given such powers as well as such a duty. In the article, as it is imagined, I do not think that it is fully implemented in Article 14 that members of the Committee including vice-presidents and presidents may only be able to deal with this work but it is then possible to do so even though the President, Vice-Presidents and members are said to be able to carry out no other professional duty but we have in Article 14 of the total relativisation of such an item set out in Article 13. So scientific work and research are allowed, which is quite understandable, and we at the SDP Club accept it, but no professional work can be allowed here. It is prescribed what took place in the amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, so we no longer have the professionalization of state officials. It must only be reserved for scientists and researchers but not those involved in professional work. In practice, it would mean that one lawyer can be in accordance with this provision of Article 14 because it is his professional work that can also be a member of the Committee who then has a salary here, and that is not the point of this proposal at all, and we will respond to the SDP Club by amendment, so we suggest that the Proposer think about it and correct this, in that sense, Article 14. Article 15 did not take into account all possible situations encountered by other committees in view of the diverse, diverse life situation. Here are the tax conditions when the President, Vice-President, members of the Committee may be relieved of their duties. There is also such a possibility that it does not fulfil its duties. But when? Should we not respond once, twice, three times? How many choices does it take to be deprived of that duty? In any case, this should be very strictly determined and specified. He can also be relieved of his duties only if he is sentenced to jail time. And what if he's in custody? We have also had such situations with members of the committees, or those who have applied to certain places or were officials, for example, I cite judicial officials. We also see that it is inadmissible here that only the commission decides on how many employees there will be, what way? I don't think any committee is allowed to do this, and this is exactly what the Commission is doing to prevent the administration's awakening from having a decision on this, but the Parliament itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u60978	Thank you. It's time to apply for a ten-minute hearing. State Secretary Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u60979	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I will look back at the opinion expressed at the end of the debate, but I must respond to the assumption that because of the condition in the voters' lists there is doubt in both the results of the election and the legality of the whole process. I must say that there are already standardised polling stations in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. We have about 6,000 polling stations and none of those 6 thousand polling stations have seen irregularities that would be based on any shortages in the voters' lists. This also serves as an honor to officials who keep lists of voters, as well as 36,000 members of the electoral committees who are engaged in the elections, who have done the job that is crucial to democracy fairly and legally. Of course the voters' lists should be arranged, we're aware of that. This is an auxiliary technical record based on the residence records and the first step is to collect the residence records, and then, based on this information on Croatian citizens who are 18 years old who live somewhere, the voters' lists will also be sorted out. However, as they are, they are reliable records. There's never been a double vote. In the territory of the Republic of Croatia, I reiterated for the sake of the Croatian public no irregularities have been observed due to the voter list. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u60980	Club of HSP MPs, respected representative Pejo Trčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u60981	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The Croatian party's rights club will support this bill because we believe it is a good thing that this law is passed right now because it is a rare case that laws are passed in this House when it is necessary, because we believe that the adoption of the Law on the State Election Commission at this time is quite good because this State Election Commission will have plenty of time to prepare the next parliamentary elections. It is also okay that this Law proposes that members of this Election Commission be people outside the party, to be a political person, which will be very difficult in such a politicised Croatia. I don't think we're going to find one and a political citizen that easily. I must point out that in the provisions of the proposed law relating to the conditions to be met by the members of the commission. So, the president, the vice presidents, it is limited that they must only be graduated lawyers, as the promoter says, given that this is a matter of extremely professional and legally sensitive business, which would not be subject to other professions or would be very difficult to cope with or not, as a politician or a person of social orientation. So we believe that it is not good that the proposal is not accepted that, for the members of the commission, the president, the vice president and the members of the commission can also be elected persons of social orientation. In fact, we at the HSP Club hold that it would be good to determine that the president and vice presidents must be lawyers and that the other members of the committees may also be persons of social orientation. In fact, if we have prescribed by law that the commission will establish cooperation with organisations and institutions within and outside the Republic of Croatia, which is good for the electoral practice that exists outside the Republic of Croatia, that the Commission will allow a constant organisation of the implementation of education of all participants in the electoral process, and that citizens will be encouraged to participate in election processes. So this bill of law gives us some authority to the members of the commission that we hold to be not very qualified and competent. In fact, when we talk about information, about education, about education, then we think that some people from social life might come in handy. So, social orientation. In fact, we believe that the commission and members of the commission are primarily obliged under this law to organise and implement elections under the applicable laws. So, as far as the eight-year term is concerned, we at the HSP Club hold a questionable mandate for all members of the 8-year-olds. It would be good to at least for 8 years to determine that the term of office is for the president and for the president, and to elect members for the term of office of four years. Thus, when the members of the commission were changed in one term, they would continue their continuity in education, education and knowledge regarding the implementation of the elections themselves and the work of the Commission itself. If these remarks we have made are now respected, the Croatian Party Club will have no reason not to support this proposal for a law establishing the State Election Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u60982	Thank you. Now we're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u60983	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, even in first reading this bill is supported and I think it's good to finally get an Electoral Commission, the State Election Commission as a permanent body. However, some minor remarks on this final draft law should be pointed out. First of all, I think it is good that most of the remarks made in the first reading have been accepted and, among other things, that the State Election Commission submits a report to the Croatian Parliament on the elections carried out 60 days since the publication of the official results, especially if we bear in mind what was happening in the last presidential elections, that one candidate is alive, and another candidate is alive and alive and dead. Such a situation shames the country and it is good that the State Election Commission tells the Parliament something about it in its report and that, finally, the Croatian Parliament as the Supreme Representative Body and the Legislative Body can take their stand, a political stance on such unwanted events if they are repeated. Now let's go to concrete remarks. Article 5 of the first reading therefore lays down the conditions for the President of the Commission, which states, among other things, that he must not be a member of any political party. In her first reading of the law, she put another restriction on the candidate in the election. Now it's out. I don't understand why. In fact, candidates in the elections can also be non-partisan persons and they usually or often are, especially in local elections. It wouldn't be good, it certainly wouldn't be good because of the conflict of interest that any member of the State Election Commission is running in any election, at any level. So it's unclear to me why it came out from first reading to second because I don't remember any of the representatives or any of the clubs giving such a suggestion. It has come from the proposer himself, and if the Proposer has no idea that the Electoral Commission should include such persons who would participate in the elections, then I think this should be returned. In Article 7, you shall have paragraphs 1 and 2. In paragraph 2, from word to word, repeat the sentence referred to in paragraph 1. And that's one theutology that's completely unnecessary. The article 1 reads to you: "The vice presidents and members of the commission are elected by the Croatian Parliament by the majority of the votes of all MPs to the term of office of 8 years.". And item 2: "The Vice-Presidents and members of the commission shall be elected by the Croatian Parliament by the majority of the votes of all MPs to the term of office of 8 years.", so you continue: "In a way..." and so on. For reasons of economics, transparency, better-looking simple law, item 1. You need to get out. In that sense, I have submitted an amendment to you because it is completely unnecessary, what it will do inside. Article 20: "The Commission decides by a majority of the votes of all members.". In your first reading, you had another fence: "If a majority of the members of the committee are present at the session.". Now you've dropped it out. I don't know why again. Because it was logical-- first there has to be a quorum, and then there's a decision on which most decisions are made. That's quite clear. In my first reading, I warned you that it would be good to introduce some kind of institution, some kind of fuse, a replacement member, a member of a temporary replacement. It can be determined by the Constitutional Court, anyway. In case three members get sick, for example, flu comes, flu comes, elections are held. Three can't work getting flu seven days are out of business, decisions need to be made, the commission can't work. Because there's only seven of them, you know, and the quorum makes you four. That's what I don't think, you refused, you said it was unnecessary to explain this final bill. And I'm afraid something like this might happen in practice. Well, it doesn't make sense that because of one such banal thing, such as the disease of the members of the committee, the commission will be blocked in its work. Therefore, it would be good for you to sort this out, possibly with your amendment, if you care to resolve it and avoid this conflict of interest. You can avoid it in such a way as to add to Article 15, so that is when the term of office of the president and members of the commission ceases. It should also be added, if it is running in the elections, you know the very fact that someone is running in the elections must be sufficient reason to get rid of it from the membership and membership of this State Election Commission. Because it's quite clear that he's unsuitable. So he doesn't understand his overall role and by choosing to run, he de facto disfellowshipped himself from this body. So here on this one, in these few places I suggest you fix that text. You want me to write you the amendments, if you want them with your amendments, it might be wise to go to your amendments, then they will certainly enter the legal text. If I write you the amendments then the parliamentary majority will refuse them if you do not accept them. Therefore, the laws are thus passed by the parliamentary majority. The law looks good to you, the law is good, too bad it's not even better not to fix it in some parts of the detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u60984	Replica, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u60985	Dear Mr. President, it's very classy what the esteemed colleague Stazic said, although I must say that it's determined that what we get from this domain is that it's more relatively high-quality regulations than we've received so far. But certainly there are, I agree with these things that they should be brought in or their own amendments to the promoters. And I also think that the fact that the commission, which has all its duties and tasks, is important is that I think that the possibility that politologists can be, for example, other social activities are members of the commission, not only that they can be lawyers. Given that part of the information, educational and all other natural. I think that graduate politologists, journalists can also successfully act as members of the State Election Commission. And I suggest we think about that part too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u60986	Replicate response, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u60987	I didn't realize the essence of your replica. That's not what I was talking about. But since you've opened a new topic, let me tell you what I think. What does the election committee do? He's running the election. I think it's unusual that there are lawyers. They do not interpret the election, nor interpret the election result. They are in charge of the legality of the conduct of the elections. Since there are only seven of them, if we introduce one politologist, the lawyers will be at a ratio of 3:3. How do they decide on a legal issue? We'd have to introduce two polythologists. Two, two people not legal professions. So that we can get lawyers to decide on a legal issue most of the votes. Therefore, there may be reasons to introduce polythologists inside. There are also reasonable grounds to leave this to legal professionals only. Because, look, so far, they've been judges of the Supreme Court. So, not just lawyers, but just the judges of the Supreme Court. We're reducing that level now, they have to be lawyers. It's important, it's unusually important, the State Election Commission is responding and will be accountable to this House for the legal conduct of the elections. That's what's absolutely important, what needs to be secured by this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u60988	Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja. Here you go. He's losing his word. Honorable representative Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u60989	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. By sharing certain doubts expressed by the SDP club, I believe that the permanent State Election Commission should contribute to the improvement of the electoral process where all the shortcomings that were present in the elections will be removed. And that's why I think this bill is good, but it needs to be done in certain things and a little bit done. I'll just focus on one problem. This is where it's already been said, and I'm not going to be partying. Here, let me come up with a Czech position, at least one small army, which is a polytheologist, because we see that the interests of the lawyers here have been maximum satisfaction. I therefore believe that it is still necessary to return to that first draft law which was in the first reading that provided for in Article 8 that a graduate lawyer with 10 years of working experience or a graduate politician may be elected as Vice President and a Member of the Commission. Now in this second reading, in this bill, graduate politologists have been expelled. I only note that in the first reading debate, only one proposal was made by one parliamentary representative of the ruling majority, which seems to have been accepted by the government. I believe that it is necessary for these seven members of the commission to be one graduate politician, among other things because Article 11 of which discusses the work of the Commission and the tasks of the Commission, among other things, that the commission performs the tasks of giving opinions and guidelines for the addition and improvement of electoral legislation, then implements the education of members of election committees, etc. etc. So exactly what's in the description of the detour of the assignment of graduate politologists. That's exactly what politics is all about. When it is said, when asked what a student is studying and when he says he is studying the Faculty of Political Sciences, then the main comment will be that he prepares himself for a politician, which is absolutely incorrect. Here's what we see here in the Croatian Parliament is a far greater number of other professions than doctors, lawyers, economists and others than polythologists. Thank God and so be it, because being a politician doesn't mean being a politician. Politicians create a political social framework for political and ino competition. It is therefore not good to deprive them of the relatively equal competition of competition status for certain positions in the state administration. It also starts because Council of Europe's provisions in the Code of Good Practice on Election Issues recommend that politologists should also be members of the State Election Commission. We are full of the mouth of Europe and of the approximations of the European Union, so why not accept such a recommendation because we have already accepted any recommendations and especially because such a practice is said to exist in Sweden, Great Britain and Germany. So if there is no question there whether a politician could evenly or in part argue with lawyers about this issue, I do not see why this would be a problem in Croatia. Especially since the schools of political sciences in the United States are one of the most respected universities where the people who finish them are destined for prominent places in the US administration. It is similar in Western Europe. It is not good when the Faculty of Political Sciences in Zagreb is equating, and this often seems with party school 60 and I don't know which. Then many institutions in Croatia could easily disqualify them and then we could abolish them. Because today the Faculty of Political Sciences in Zagreb is a renowned university that is increasingly working and where, of course, improvements are possible in order to improve the quality of preparation of students for work in the state administration, I particularly believe that colleges, legal colleges, colleges of politics that are now being introduced all with the aim of having a higher level of knowledge so that they can be equally involved in the work of the Croatian administration. And here I'm going to take another reason why that would be good, or try to be consistent when we're discussing these issues. Let us remember the new Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence who allowed additional registration of children of Croatian wartime wartime disabled and Croatian defenders, i.e. volunteers to colleges, and that's where it turned out, the problems turned out. Prime Minister Sanader himself said he'd have to get rid of them somehow. A college with the largest number of children of such children has just been enrolled in the Faculty of Political Sciences. Why did the children of Croatian defenders just enroll in the Faculty of Political Sciences? But since that's the case, why wouldn't those children of Croatian defenders have equal treatment for other students of other colleges for today-to-morrow when they decided to get a job. Why not allow these children in 20, 30 years to be part of this State Election Commission. Why does the labour market not allow them to be equal or partly equal to other professions, especially if we know that they will have their place in the state administration of the Croatian State for which their fathers fought? We can also ask these questions, not one student, to colleges that we will say in advance that they are not very good for doing these jobs. So what, what a politician or some other profession is going to do, we open up that possibility to sociologists or I don't know who, if he's not going to deal with the election, if he's not going to be involved in building up the political system, especially if we know after the vote is over that all of the politicians who talk about the election, the evaluations, the evaluations and the rest are on TV. Then why don't one of the politologists create at least part of the election process? And I therefore believe that if we really want to get a good law that will be passed by consensus which I think there are grounds, then we should also make this little change. A number of SDP MPs, where we have one renowned lawyer, have put forward a proposal for this amendment to Article 8 as it seems to me in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u60990	Thank you. One notice. Tomorrow at 9:00 in the hall "Ivan Kukuljevic" the chairman of the Education, Science and Culture Committee, Petar Selem, called a committee meeting between the board, and with a debate on the proposal for a law on the Agency for Education, first reading. We have 5 replicas now. The first is a respected representative of the Crown of Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u60991	Mr. President, State Secretary. It is precisely the most important argument in support of the proposed final proposal of the Law on the State Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia that so far in the State Election Commission were exclusively judges, exclusively judges with long-standing practice, with experience, with knowledge. Because precisely the character and powers of the State Election Commission, one of the more important issues that requires more recent solutions, are more appropriate normative practices of European countries, because these issues regarding the composition of the Commission's competence have so far been discussed by the provisions of the Law on the Selection of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, the Law on the Selection of Presidents of the Republic of Croatia, and the Law on the Selection of members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional, or regional self-government. All these things have so far been dispensed and the only provision very clear and precise that gives security and assurance that the basis of this Law will now be set for the State Election Commission is that the conditions met by the president, the vice president and the members are limited that they must be graduate lawyers. After the end of this term, their 8-year term as a real mandate, we believe that there may be reasons and opportunities for some different experiences, or proposals to be discussed. Now in this time exclusively graduated lawyers because so far in the State Election Commissions were judges, not just ordinary lawyers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u60992	Replica response, distinguished representative Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u60993	Well, I agree that nothing is going to change and that they're all lawyers. Well, it probably would work if nobody was a lawyer, even though I don't think that's good. Things would go by themselves, neglecting lawyers who would do what's in the business, but that's not good. So let us accept what was in the first reading, what is practice and Western European democracies. If it's good for Germany, if it's good for Britain, if it's good for Sweden, then why wouldn't it be good for us? Because it's said to be a politician. I don't think the State Election Commission will be a guarantee of security and quality of business if all lawyers are guaranteed. It doesn't have to be, it has to be quality lawyers it's under number one, as this graduate politologist must be a quality graduate politologist. It wouldn't be good, it was public speaking, if we already had pictures of these seven people, so maybe it's pictures of seven or, I don't know, a certain number, maybe half of that lawyer that wouldn't be good.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u60994	Second replica, respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u60995	I don't see any reason why there would be a perception of the profession of a politologist. I think otherwise this proposal is relatively correct and will probably get the opposition's support. I really don't see why this difference happened between the first reading and this final proposal in the second reading. If anyone interferes with politicians and politicians, let's turn around and look at how many politicians there are here and how many lawyers. We're professional politicians. I mean, I don't know if there are 2, 3, I don't know. Two? And how many lawyers there are, and we'll say that the legal profession is infected or infected with political engagement. Politician and politician are two different things. I really don't see why this restrictive relationship. I think in a way and speaking about the Faculty of Political Sciences, my colleague talked a lot about it, in Zagreb. Here's the problem with the lawyers from my back lines. Don't turn this into a professional conflict, and I don't think there's any reason why you shouldn't go back to what was in the first reading, so leave the possibility that polythologists can be members of the State Election Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u60996	Thank you. The next replica, respected representative Miroslav Korenika, and don't let your colleague bother you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u60997	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I also agree with my colleague Pancic that it is necessary to give the opportunity for graduate politologists to be in the State Election Commission. And it seems to me that there are some illogicalities. I'd like to ask if my colleague Pancic could further explain. Article 5 and Article 8 here discusses the members of the National Election Commission, the President and the Vice-Presidents and members. It seems extremely illogical to me that for the president it takes 12 years of work, for members of the 10 years of work. I don't know what to do with that fine distinction. And another thing, colleague Pancic, you might want to tell me and the others what it is to learn more about the knowledge of the political electoral system at law school. It seems quite the opposite to me, that at the Faculty of Political Sciences, there is far more learning, far more studying, and now suddenly such illogicalness in favour of only graduate lawyers, and in which way, if only lawyers are in the game, how will control and know the knowledge of the political and electoral system be done. This seems a little uneasy to me, because control, it may be what is extenuatingly willing to write a test, whether everyone will approach an exam as at the university, and ultimately I would warn on Article 11 which goes in favour of graduate politologists because it is said that the State Election Commission should give an opinion and guidance on improving how electoral legislation and conduct education, and it seems to me that graduate politologists are therefore more qualified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u60998	Replica response, distinguished representative Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u60999	Well, as a politician, I was pretty self-absorbed. In all these discussions, when it comes to purely political issues, the party system, the electoral system, etc., and indeed there is a lot to hear here which is simply equal to the lack of knowledge of the basic alphabet of politics, what is taught in the first year of politics. So we were able to hear about changes in the electoral system from the leaders of small political parties that it would be good to introduce the elections by an absolute majority. Well, that would be good for HDZ, that would be a good part for SDP, but it certainly wouldn't be good for them. And why did they say that? Well simply because they can't add up one plus one, if the ruling majority didn't buy them to say so, and the probability, or certainly not. So also when we talk about the electoral process why only one profession would have a monopoly to say what would be good for the Republic of Croatia if we already saw that all our great legislators had, regardless of the party's belongings they had both great failures and I suggest to everyone, start and by ourselves to consult some contemporary political literature about political systems of electoral or party systems and then debates would certainly be far more quality here as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61000	The next replica, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61001	Your Honor, Mr. President, for the first part of my colleague Pancic's presentation, I agree, although I am a graduate lawyer for the members of the committee. Namely, it says 10 years of work experience in the profession, knowledge of the political electoral system. It's just in politics and it's better than law school teaches them. They have these very objects, who you've given for effort to look at the curricula and the program and I think even books are better quality and better processed than at law schools. I also don't see the same reason why the president has been assigned for 12 years, for members of 10 years. Obviously, you already have a man, so you put on 12 years. And for the third, with the fact that I disagree with the part about enrollment of children of Croatian volunteers, Croatian wartime disabled and children killed, i.e. captive and missing because of the fact that universities are obviously unprepared for all of this, and now they want their part of unpreparedness, means to adapt to the Bologna Processes they wanted to transfer it all to them for the thousands of 600 students who signed up for this part, according to the Law on the Rights of the Croatian defenders of the Homeland War and members of their families. They had plenty of time to prepare, they didn't get ready, but we have to make sure that those kids that are being enrolled, those quotas that are set for enrolment, they haven't damaged anyone in that part. I would even advocate that part if we could increase the number of higher educations in Croatia to social, other cases so that, because only the children of the tycoon and those who stole Croatia today will be able to study, and everyone else and parents will not have money and will not be able to refer their child to study. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61002	Replica response, distinguished representative Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61003	It seems to me that this is also proof that there is no conflict between politics and lawyers. You simply have to choose a purely logical solution. When you're talking about 12 years, why is 12 years, and it's not 10 years, that's probably what Mr. Secretary of State should say, it wouldn't be good if we already had the image of someone who, after long work in some other institutions now decided maybe and rest a little in one of these bodies, wouldn't be good. And as for the children of the defenders and the enrolment, my intensity was different, I'm not even talking about the problem of whether the colleges were ready or unprepared, why the Ministry of Education kept quiet, why the university kept quiet. If the children of Croatian defenders are already enrolled, and at the Faculty of Political Sciences there are far more of them than at any other university, then why do they undermine the importance of this university, which may be a third of the students who come from defense families?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61004	And the last replica, the respected representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61005	So in principle, I agree with my fellow Pancic's efforts to get politicalists into this team, but I would extend the demand against professional fundamentalism that we are offered in this case that only one profession deals with something as important as political representation and elections. I don't see any reason not to be on the team, I'm not saying... Sociologist, I see no reason not to be a sociologist on the team, and it is indeed a matter of telling sociological expertise that is necessary for the contextual understanding of the election, the electoral representation of the team more because it is now a permanent body, it is not an ad hoc body that meets only at the time of the election but what is said to be the opinion and guidance for the addition and improvement of electoral legislation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The sociology of choice already exists in the world today as a special sociological discipline. So a couple of excellent social issues is a matter of political representation of choice, I advocate a sociologist on the team, so proposal 7 of these should be but one politician and one sociologist extend to nine people, it would already be an contribution to a better composition of this body.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61006	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61007	You see, this isn't a party question. This exceeds the existing division in the Parliament. And I also agree that we can't be professional fundamentalists here. I'm doubled for some other solutions, a graduate politician and someone else, only there's a little problem with sociologists. They are involved in an election or party representation, but this is exclusively about the issue of the electoral system, which is described as a pair of excellences in the description of the activities of the politologists.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61008	Honorable representative of Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61009	Thank you very much. Mr. President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The establishment of the State Election Commission as a permanent body will ensure a technically better procedure for the conduct of the elections. When it comes to the work of the commission in accordance with Article 11 of the Rules of Procedure, one of the commission's tasks should be included and supervised by the centralised list of voters. As one of the commission's tasks should also be to oversee the financing of pre-election campaigns. In many countries, the State Election Commission prescribes the way and forms for reporting and the upper limits for campaign spending and in cooperation with financial institutions, so I think that would be good for us in Croatia. The Commission’s competence should also include media surveillance at the time of the election or jurisdiction in the part where the rules of electoral promotion are violated. I do not see any justification for not accepting the proposal of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system that at least one of the members of the committee with the lawyers be elected a person of social orientation. We've heard a lot about it in the debate so far. It explains that members of the commission should be exclusive lawyers because other people, for example, politicians, would find it very difficult to cope and that these jobs were extremely professional and legally sensitive. This argument cannot be accepted. For example, polythologists have an entire college dedicated to elections. These are election models and political parties where all election issues are studied, as well as the State Election Commission and not only in the Republic of Croatia, but also as the area is arranged in other countries. As far as I know, there is no similar college at law school to deal with only elections. Although this issue can be made irrelevant, I do not believe that there is any basis for lawyers to monopolize the membership of the commission and that other professions, and in particular, I am thinking of politicians, and I can certainly contribute as much to the quality of the work of the commission as possible. I therefore support the amendment of my colleagues to Article 8 which requires that, apart from lawyers and politologists, they may be members of the State Election Commission. And in the end, one remark of a purely spelling nature. In the text of the proposal as well as the arguments exist throughout the text, there is an incorrectly written institution of the vice president. Namely, it was written by the vice president with the letter "d" although it is the correct vice president with the letter "t" so I suggest that it be corrected in a copy and published in "The People's Newspaper". There you go. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61010	Thank you. Five minutes of debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61011	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague! I would like to point out in particular that only a commission such as no single commission can do, such powers do not have a single ministry but the government itself, and this proposal gives power to the Commission to decide by its own rules how many employees they will have, how they will do professional services, the exact number of employees, professional and other conditions necessary for the deployment of jobs. I think that's inadmissible. That one commission can't even have that kind of authority. Therefore, it should be completely excluded from this provision of Article 23, which authorises the Commission to lay down by the regulation exactly the establishment of a professional service, the number of officials and subsistence officers. Furthermore, it is logical that the committee chooses a secretary. However, this status is given to the secretary of one commission absolutely at the SDP Club, and we believe that it is not acceptable. It shall be determined that the secretary will have the position of Head of State Administration. So be at the State Secretary level. And how long will his term of office last? That's not even said here. And on the other hand, he'd have both the coefficient and the pay. Therefore, we at the SDP Club also because of the principle of curbing the awakening of the administration, we are in favour of being really well-paid professional people, respected people but not in such a way providing for some favourable syncures, so before most of the four members are decided by the secretary, and most of the four members are just ruling. In particular, I also referred to the work of the commission, or its ability to decide how this was resolved by Article 20, that the commission decided by a majority of the votes of all members. So the law itself suggests that there is no need for all members of the commission to be present. And why wouldn't the law just get rid of it if the Commission had to make decisions in full? Failure to come to the Committee's session when deciding on the elections, election results, this is also an automatic condition for its resolution. But right through all the provisions of the law, we need to stimulate this absolute presence in case of objective prevention. Therefore, deputies should be provided. And what this law does not contain, and should contain according to our Constitution, electoral protection. The law does not foresee at all the possibility of appeal to a decision or action against the Commission itself. No matter what other laws refer to it, we consider it precisely in view of this proposal for a law on the state electoral commission, to its decision when the decisions are spoken to, the way decisions are made, then it is certainly the place, precisely this bill that must be determined then, to be sterilised and to specify the possibility of making a complaint or a complaint to the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61012	Thank you. Final Review State Secretary Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61013	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, here we are at the end of a quality debate in a very tolerated tone and we are at the threshold seem to be passing an important law that will improve the electoral system. That will fill one legal gap in the institutional structure of the Croatian state. And on this occasion, I thank all those who participated in the debate, who contributed to making this law better. Of course, perfection, perfect laws are the goal we seek, but we are aware that we will never reach it. However, access to this problem, the fact that we passed this law in a regular procedure. If we had organized round tables, working groups, that we had discussed it with everyone concerned and who wanted to discuss this matter, it was very likely that a professional, professional body of general trust would be established in Croatia. There's no inside at least the government doesn't see pictures of those who will be elected. It will be left to the free will of the Croatian Parliament and those who compete. The government wants this commission to start working, that what is now a functioning State Election Commission will inherit good practice, gain experience in extraordinary local elections, which, unfortunately or fortunately, will continue. And be ready for regular parliamentary elections. The fact that with the establishment of this body started early enough, as well as even with the reform of electoral legislation, the electoral system is very positive because now unburdened we can thoroughly arrange everything that is important for the election process in Croatia to take place even better and even better even though it has already reached high standards and we believe that we will thus contribute to the development of democracy and once again show that Croatia is a democratic country in which all the institutions of the Constitutional Order operate within the limits of their jurisdiction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61014	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this point. Final proposal of the Law on the State Election Commission. We have a plate of amendments. State Secretary Antun Palaric will manifest himself. Amendment number one. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61016	It's unacceptable. It is difficult to determine that someone enjoys an uncontested public reputation. We leave it to the board and the Croatian Parliament to choose according to their intentions of professional people. We believe it will be people who enjoy public reputation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61017	Representative Nenad Stazić on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61018	So listen to the secretary of state, there are really people who have a professional reputation, but that professional reputation has not been confirmed by public reputation. This is one such body that conducts the elections and must guarantee that these elections will be conducted both legally and morally. So we're asking for a vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61019	Please vote. Let's get on with it. To vote on this amendment. And please pay attention to the MPs! The result? With 20 votes for and 6 against, 6 abstentions, 65 against the amendment failed. The second amendment of MPs also Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61020	The government does not accept this issue of incompatibility at the same time with the State Election Commission and the fact that someone has run for office in the elections will be resolved by amendment 13. Therefore, not by this amendment, and the Government does not accept the amendment to Article 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61021	It is the same amendment number 13. The same representative of Nenad Stazic. How do you think you can solve it?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61022	We'll accept that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61023	Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61024	Well, if you'll accept my amendment... Then I withdraw this amendment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61025	Okay. Then Amendment Two withdrawn. The amendment of three MPs also Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61026	We don't accept. In paragraph 1, we are talking about the principle of selecting most of all MPs, and in the following paragraphs this principle is being discussed on whose proposal. So that item isn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61027	Okay, do you have to talk, laugh and talk during the vote? That's amazing! Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61028	Well, look at the secretary of state, your will. But it's completely unnecessary. Paragraph 1 has one sentence. In paragraph 2, the same sentence shall be repeated and a follow-up shall be added to the selection method. If you want the law to look uglier than it needs, then you reject the amendment. But just explain to me why you're rejecting some amendment that nomotechnically corrects your text. The exact same word from letter to letter is repeated in the second sentence of the same text. So in one article, it takes twice in two paragraphs one and repeats the same text, I really don't get it. But I'm asking for a vote on this right here in the name of reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61029	Come on, if I may, Mr. President, one more time. We stylefully did it to determine the majority first, and to later discuss who suggested who. But here's what we're going to do. Then we're going to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61030	It's becoming an integral part. Fourth amendment of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61031	The Fourth Amendment is not accepted. We leave this to the parties' agreement that they will be proposed from the ranks of the majority of the opposition so that they do not have to go into it now. Of course you always take care of the composition at the moment of the election.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61032	Well, it's not quite clear, and to make it more clear, we are proposing an amendment because it would not be later in the election of members of the State Election Commission to conduct some political bickering if it is possible now to resolve the law in a clear way, if it is also the urgency of the legislator and we understand it well on purpose that it is, that people are entering the State Election Commission by consensus, by agreement of political parties. Therefore, if it is possible to regulate something more precisely by law and it is possible to accept this amendment that does not harm anyone or the parliamentary majority or the parliamentary minority. But it avoids all misunderstandings in advance, so we don't understand why not avoid misunderstandings. I ask you to consider it one more time, possibly accept it. Otherwise, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61033	To vote. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? 18 for, 5 abstentions, 68 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Fifth Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the same SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61034	It shall not be accepted for the reasons set out in the first amendment because the content of the amendment is the same. The same reasons as the first amendment remain in force. We think that an uncontested public reputation is important for members of the State Election Commission and we are asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61036	To vote. Please, let's get on with it. The result? 17 for, 3 abstentions, 69 against didn't get the necessary majority. Sixth Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the CNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61037	The government does not accept for reasons why so far the state electoral commission has been a graduate lawyer. The National Election Commission is tasked with resolving legal issues. We therefore believe in the structure itself that there should be a degree in lawyers, and of course, in electoral laws, in the extended composition of how it is arranged, representatives of other professions can also be involved.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61038	What about the HNS, huh? The club's gone. Vote? The result? 13 for, 4 abstentions, 70 against. He didn't make it. It also consumed Amendment 7. 8th Amendment of Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61039	It is not accepted, because we will settle this by adopting amendments under regular number 13.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61040	Amendment eight withdrawn. The ninth amendment of the Club of Representatives of the CNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61041	It is not accepted, because we leave the committee to the good practice of this Parliament to arrange the procedure itself with candidates and... Fact. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61042	We have to vote. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? 3 for, 6 abstentions 71 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 11th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61043	Mr. President, I think.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61044	Tenth, excuse me, 10th HNS Representative Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61045	The government accepts this amendment, but with one addition to that, in front of the word "route" to add: "i", it says "and guidelines". But if there's no proposing to him, then we're staying here to accept the amendment. Well, that won't bother.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61046	Okay. Amendment accepted. It's becoming an integral part. Eleventh, SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61047	We don't accept. We'll handle the voters' lists with a special law. It's a very complex procedure. More than 200 people work on the voters' list. The voter's key lists are being certified by municipal and city councils. We need to make this all right with the amendments to the Law on Lists of Voters.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61048	Representative Nenad Stazic on behalf of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61049	Your intention to settle this with a special law is completely worthwhile and justifiable. However, it does not provide for the State Election Commission to run the voters' lists, but rather to take care of the legality and regularity of the conduct. So when you make some kind of law, you form a body, I don't know who you're going to charge to run the voters' lists. Someone will still have to take care of the legality of their work. Tell me, who can do this better than the State Election Commission? Who is it that will be able to tell you the lists of voters are messy or in that polling place these lists of voters were not complete and that is why the elections are repeated? Someone's got to do it. Who is this other than the State Election Commission? Therefore, I ask you nicely, when you pass that law, if you have any other solution, it is not a problem here to align it with any small amendment to this law. But now that we've already got one law that's going to be good, especially since you've accepted some amendments, let's also accept this one. You can also accept this to send a clear message to everyone. No one in this country has any intention of breaking election rules. Either take votes, steal votes through a list of voters in one way or another. And that's why we choose a special body, the State Election Commission, and we give it to him as a task. If you don't accept my argument, then please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61050	Please vote. Let's get on with it. The result? 22 for, 2 abstentions, 68 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. The twelfth, same club of SDP advocates.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61051	We don't accept. Of course, we can accept the reasoning that has been exposed to not doing another job. I think it's clear from the whole law that a member of the State Election Commission can't be a lawyer at the same time and do other things. But he can and must conduct an education process for all those involved in the electoral process and even for the public. And it's certainly not scientific, it's professional work, and we don't accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61052	Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61053	You know, there is, but these are different things to you. There are professional papers, scientific papers, conferences, scientific gatherings, conferences, scientific gatherings. What's to stop him from participating in some sort of professional gathering? So, come on. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61054	Please vote. The result? 23 for, 66 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thirteenth, representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61055	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61056	It becomes an integral part of the law. The fourteenth, also represented by Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61057	Well, it's not acceptable because we don't understand it and it's unnecessary. Article 20 says "The commission decides most of the votes of all members.", so it is clear that most must be present. And that's why we don't accept it because we think Article 20 is clear enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61058	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61059	Retracted. Fifteenth, HNS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61060	Mr. President, I'm sorry there's no one from the HNS Club who would accept this amendment, but not in this formulation. Namely, Article 25. The law prohibits the secretary of the commission and the deputy from being members of political parties. This amendment doesn't talk about it. But he's saying I can't be candidates. But if it is not possible for this amendment to be item 2 then we do not accept. ... Then we reject him. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We don't accept it. Ali.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61061	Let's go vote. Vote! Please vote. The result? 8 for, 5 abstentions, 67 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Sixteenth, Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61062	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61063	It becomes an integral part of the law. Seventeenth, same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61064	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61065	It becomes an integral part of the law. Eighteenth, same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61066	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61067	Thank you. Now we're going to the vote. It also requires at least 77 votes for. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 96 votes in favour and 3 abstentions, a proposed law was adopted in the text as appointed by the Proposer along with the amendments. We're moving on to the next point. This is: - Proposal for a law on the promotion of domestic production for tourism placement – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of HSS, first reading of P.Z. No. 422; The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Economy, Development and Reconstruction, Tourism, Agriculture and Forestry. You received the reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered its opinion. Proposer representative Honored representative Ante Markov will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61069	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a law on the promotion of domestic production for tourism placement. The proposal for a law that the Club of Representatives has been working on for some time, is consulted equally with the profession to call it as well as with the Czech organisations operating in this area and who are interested in it. And here we are glad that the law has come to the agenda and that it can also be discussed with a content aspect but also with formal law. Because as you will see, there are reasons to also discuss from a substantive point of view, but also from a content-law involving, above all, a reference to the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia with regard to the fact that this proposal for a law is contrary or somewhat incompatible with the acquiss of the European Union. I'm going to start by saying two key reasons that may not even be read out of the opening argument why this law? The task of the law is double. On one side, it should open all economic capacities that Croatia has. It is therefore necessary to encourage the development of the economic capacity of the Republic of Croatia from the agricultural food sector, the metal industry, the wood-processing industry, the equipment industry, the construction industry. In one word, almost all the production and service capacities of the Republic of Croatia that Croatia has to prepare at the level of competitiveness to win the growth market. On the other hand, this Law aims to improve the competitiveness of Croatian tourism at all. Of course, tourism as a market must build its competitiveness. The present way of expressing and looking at tourism through those famous expressions of the sun, beaches, entertainment has already come to life. The new content and one more serious economic concern about the tourism market is that it is no longer a trend but it is almost one reflection in the world economy. Tourism today is unquestionably one of the strongest industries in the world. This is witnessed by the number of participations in a gross social product that tourism is like the market, not as an activity because it is not an activity that contributes to individual national economies. In Croatia, this participation that tourism as a market participates in the gross social product in this year ranges between 27% and 29%. We will acknowledge, given our design and our state of organisation in terms of using the potentials tourism has, that this number confirmed by the Croatian National Bank is also very respectable and that it points to all the importance that tourism has on the entire economy. And that's why we need to look at it at exactly that level. I also hold the HSS Club, of course, that this is not a political issue, and that this is not a question that needs to be broken and that this proposal should be seen as an opportunized proposal from an opposition club. I don't think anyone has that opinion. This proposal simply through the measures it wants to open precisely in the sense that we increase the influence of the Croatian economy within the tourism market tells us that it is simply very clear and at the political level to position this country's concerns, this society needs to be concerned, that it should be done to make sure that the Croatian economy has different interests than tourism, that the domestic economy should participate more in this and in this tourism market. But one very important thing, which is the fact that tourism is invisible exports. Tourism is a gentlemen's total export if it is made by foreign citizens. In the Croatian case, we can conclude with full right that it is mainly about exports. Of course, the export is only in the variant when tourists who come use domestic resources, when they eat domestic food, when they drink domestic drinks and wine, when they also use those infrastructure potentials built from the domestic Croatian economy, and that part, that part that does not apply to so-called. direct services such as food, drink and accommodation, rather than the investment maintenance of the investment service in tourism. The preparation services are huge and huge. I will only give you the information for this year 2006, which is the source of the survey by the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development. Now, right now for the preparation of the tourist season in the Republic of Croatia, for investments in the renovation of accommodation facilities, for investment in accommodation facilities to raise quality, for investment in new accommodation facilities and re-use of existing facilities. At this point in Croatia is spent or planned to spend about 3 and a half billion kuna. Total of funds to be allocated for municipal and transport infrastructure, for the regulation of green areas. Funds in 2006 which we will invest as a society, as an economy, as a local self-government in order for the tourism market to be accepted on one side by guests, but likely to benefit as much as possible from this investment. Over six billion kunas will be invested this year. Which society may be whether or not these six billion kunas, I apologize for billions of kunas will be taken from domestic resources. Will domestic companies be involved in renovating the hotel? Whether the equipment that's being built into these hotels is going to be built into these hotels, and I said it's going to be about 3 and a half billion kunas that are now being invested in reconstruction, construction and construction of existing or new hotel and accommodation facilities 3 and a half billion kunas. This society simply has to deal very seriously with this, above all, with the economic aspect of this law. Because of course we don't care if these 6 billion kunas as a society are going to make sure that our production capacities are put into operation as much as possible, and not that they are, if they are in function, which is unfortunately the case today for them to be taken over by the middleman who got the job. In fact, the fact is that our construction operation and equipment infrastructure are found in these reconstructions, reconstructions, but as through intermediaries and this intermediary is usually not from Croatia. Why? Because they do not have financial support for a competitive approach in the selection of jobs. Because as a society, we didn't recognize the potentials tourism can give. That is why, not because of politics or anything else, but because of the huge potential that this tourist market has, which is not recognised until the end, but they have started to discuss it more seriously. At the advice of economists in Opatija for the first time, the prime minister even confirmed it, tourism was said to be exports. It should be placed in that position when talking about the export quota Croatia has in relation to the overall balance of payments tourism should be classified there. That's right. The economists agreed. No one's against it. But at this point, our exposure to import products, raw materials, repromaterials, one word of import goods is unnecessarily high even in relation to the possibilities of Croatian economic capacity. So there's no valid reason for us to have such a high involvement in foreign goods. It doesn't exist. And can it be said that it is not appropriate or that something or some directives are opposed to the interest that society has, this country has, to try to strengthen the interest of the domestic economy on its tourist market, to try to organise non-support, so as to create an unequal market match. Not to enter a system of such support that will be legally unsustainable in relation to European legislation, but only to ensure a quality chain of financing of production on the one hand and a quality way of financing the preparation of the tourist season on the other. I'm just talking about a quality way of funding. Namely, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development now and at these moments there are credit lines that are at 0% interest. Why domestic food producers, agricultural producers, equipment manufacturers, wood industry producers would not get around such conditions as to compete on that tourist market. What they lack at this point is not knowledge, not experience, not the possibility of economic capacity, but simply the relationship on the financial capital market, in a word craft. The company has a lot of interest in helping this cycle of production and consumption. This can be applied equally to small economic potentials and to the large and large ones. True, recent events have been happening almost in some ways and precedents, and large producers directly connect with major consumers in tourism, make mutual agreements, bring the market together. One word strengthens competitiveness both on the side of production and on the side of the tourist offer. And that's good. However, for a more significant step, but first of all, seeing that Croatia will be a member of the European Union in a few years, it will have to behave differently in this family than it is today. It is the last time for our economic potentials that we try to achieve a strengthening of competitiveness, and it can only take place with responsible measures at the disposal of the state. Why? When negotiations start in any sphere, then you can only negotiate on that paper you have. No exceptions. Exceptions are just the laws you've passed. If you do not have a law on which you will seek a certain exemption, either in the economy, or in the field of protection of national interests in maritime and fisheries, or in real estate. You cannot negotiate with European negotiators without legal argument. The law is the strongest legal argument that we will negotiate with the European Union. This bill in its content, in its character, does not enter into whether it is possible and whether the measures in the bill itself are the best, whether they can be set differently, whether different instruments can be found to have the same function. And it means the function of encouraging domestic production. That club HSS doesn't worry. We are completely open to any law that will be passed, which will have a basic meaning and a fundamental objective within what I have said. Therefore, a very bad message would be that this bill is not accepted and entered into another reading. Bad message for the domestic economy, bad message for tourist employees, bad message for our negotiators. Croatia on the part of our negotiators does not give our negotiators one of the most important arguments that can be used, which is a positive Croatian law that protects the interests of the Croatian economy and does not endanger the interests of other economies. It is only trying to help the Croatian economy in one allowed form to apply, for example, in shipbuilding through measures that are known almost everywhere in the world. If they are used in shipbuilding, why not apply them to fostering the development of the agricultural and food sector? Why not apply them to small agricultural holdings that cannot step on the market on their own, have no financial potential, but have no market equipment to appear there? Because globalists are just going to eat them. And why, from the point of view of tourism, is it clearly under the conditions of the same competitiveness and in the price and quality of this domestic brand? According to a survey conducted by the German respectable ADAK house, which has been published in our newspapers, the reason and motive for Croatia's arrival is over 40% natural beauty, landscape, sea, safety and all that goes with the classical concept and reasons for coming to Croatia. Second place is Croatian food and Croatian drink. So one, one cultural feature that is imposed as one of the strongest Croatian arguments, healthy organic food, one culinary atmosphere that you can't have anywhere, one atmosphere that you can experience at the level of Slavonia, Istria, Dalmatia in thousands of different ways. It's a simple world in a small world that you can experience within a natural environment. One word, something unrepeated that's not in other places. What would happen if, as a result of globalisation, even a game where the state does not support domestic brands but comes to us with packed import goods with all attributes and elements as if it were domestic? Do you think tourists in a few years won't recognize that we're packing something that's not what they're coming for? Do you think when the village disappears in that ambience in which today with all its problems and negativity that the characteristic of the tourist character will be better? Do you think what makes today part of the challenge or almost adventure when it comes to Croatian tourism potentials that the Croatian tourism industry will be stronger? No, on the contrary. The experiences of countries from Spain and Portugal who have lost the battle with nature in mass tourism, and they lose it with guests, show that they do not need to rely on other people's bad experiences. But our home experiences in which we must first of all ensure a good connection between Croatian production capacities, from all those brands that exist today on the market to new ones that we must establish, but also in quality and in quantity. Our problem in Croatia is when we have a good product we don't have enough. When we have good wine and famous wine, we don't have enough wine. When we have Pasha cheese, we don't have enough cheese. But we're very prone to easy pastures. So it wouldn't have happened together, and to protect those positions we have today, and we gentlemen have brands today, but we don't know what we're going to do with them. We have potentials today in our diet, but we don't know what to do with them. It is necessary that society, by a certain legal framework, try to resolve this. This is because only a legal framework that says it's possible. Because if today we ensure that the unscathed loan and the one who works in the country for the needs of the tourism industry do so much activity for this year. Next year it will expand because it sees that it has two of the most important elements, has a market, has a buyer and has the most important thing for it, secure payment, and its payment will be in advance. Why in advance? Because he doesn't have the crafts to produce. Is the company going to lose because of its interest-free credit to the manufacturer? He won't. This company also funded these good banks. This company also financed a whole series of things that we can't call the most honest and zero-rate lending for agricultural producers that produce for the needs of the tourism industry, but not just for the needs of the tourism industry but for export purposes. Tourism is exporting today. Therefore, this law can also be called encouraging domestic production for export placement, absolutely all of it. And there's an even more important reason, and that's what the side of the experience has shown. Those agricultural brands that experienced their affirmation on the domestic tourist market have also become world-rent brands. They are not only taken in the land where you came to rest, but you have become addicted to it, and you buy it in the land where you come from. Thus these experiences suggest that Spain has so-called seven agricultural tourism products that became world brands, and they simply won the world with it. One of them is their prosciutto. If you've tried it, ours is better. Ours is better. But their gentlemen are triple, ten times or a thousand times more sold because they produce it because they have brands that have won the world, and in order to win the world, you have to have both quantity and quality. I believe that in Croatia only by the basis of such an approach, access to such a policy that aims not to endanger others, but to protect what Croatia is at this time is definitely the difference between other countries and tourism and otherwise. Therefore, I hold that it can be done much to make this bill which has two very simple and short measures. The first is a measure, as I said, of a interest-free loan between the manufacturer and the consumer. That neither one of them has problems with crafts, and they have problems with crafts, and that's why hotelers buy side goods because they get certain financial opportunities to bridge which, of course, they can't do with a domestic producer who's not organized and we don't have much production organizers. This would help to create production organizers, to place the ministry with its task and role, not to be an arbiter but to be an associate and aide to those who carry out these tasks. Another level is the long-term lending of those trends in agricultural and food production, craftsmanship, equipment industry and all that is lagging on the market where we are lagging behind, where we clearly know at this point Croatia imports over 50% of the fruit for tourism and the Croatian market. The ministry will do what kinds of fruit we import and will therefore selectively lend to those producers, those producer organisations that know it and who can. That's how we're gonna make our brand about it. The prosciutto and prosciutto industries will be brought into a relationship that they cannot import raw materials from Hungary and other countries and then sell this or that prosciutto than that product must be fully Croatian, because it is the only way to show itself on the global world and competitive market. Therefore, long-term lending that must be favourable aims to ensure that the same measures we now have for that type of product that we can already supply to the tourism market, that in a few years and with them we can master and cover as much of that market as possible. The satellite balance in tourism is going around 7.5, 8.5, we'll see how big it is, it's going to be, it's going to be big, it's going to be big, it's going to be billions of dollars. If we manage to rip out 10% every year, then we have made sure that the Croatian economy is stronger for that billion dollars. A billion dollars also means a little bit of work, but it also means something more, that restoring trust in your own strength, in your own mind and in your own safety. But it also means that we will be able to build such tourism as Croatia needs, such as tourism that will not be destroying ourselves, but building such a space where the total supply and demand and the Croatian economy can take place, but of course the globalised world, because this bill does not try to put it into another plan, but we simply try to help ourselves, and when we help ourselves, then I am sure that the European Community will also be more pleased to work with the Croatian economy, which knows what it wants and does exactly what that Europe is doing, and it works to protect itself by very clear measures if you want and protectionist of its national economy, its economy. I think Croatia should also do so in that sense. Here's how much I'm going to be in the introduction of this bill, and if necessary, I'm going to be involved in the debate, but I'm just asking that this bill not be seen as political opportunism or as an opportunity for discussion. We believe that we can all get together without anyone losing because this is the proposal they're giving everyone to win. Of course, for those I'm going to say that there was a time and when we were in coalition power to pass this bill, I can say that I've worked on this proposal for a long time. The fact that we didn't bring it back then doesn't need to be an argument that we don't take seriously that he was needed back then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61070	Thank you. Mr. Ivo Lonchar, correction of an incorrect quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61071	Well, here's a colleague of Ante Markov in his very inspired debate, he said several inaccuracies. Before I correct that inaccuracy, there are a lot of things I'd agree with but of course there are a lot of things you wouldn't agree with. Speaking of our prosciutto and comparing it to the Spanish prosciutto, that's true. But when you spoke of importing prosciutto raw materials, you mentioned Hungary. I can tell you from 3 January 2000 until the end of 2003 that the incredible oscillations in production and imports were in pig production. So 670,000 passengers were destroyed in Croatia during that period. 670,000 passengers in the last 47,8 years have never been such oscillations in production and price as in the period from 3 January 2000 to the end of 2003.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61072	What's the correction?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61073	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61074	What's the correction?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61075	So talk about prosciutto. I said, this was an explanation. I first said, he said the imports were from Hungary. But I've expanded. It was imports from Denmark, the Netherlands and Hungary. With Hungary as high as it was quality, but from the Netherlands and Denmark, we were importing trash during that period.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61076	Thank you. Do the workbody rapporteurs want a word? Chairman of the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction, Mr Dragutin Pukleš.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61077	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. The Committee on the Economy, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament at the 40th session held on 22 March 2006 discussed the proposal for a law on the promotion of domestic production for tourism placement, which was delivered by the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party to the Croatian Parliament on 17 January 2006. The Committee shall be based on Article 67. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposed law as a parent working body. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out the reasons for the submission of this legislative proposal. In the debate, the Committee also held the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Following the introduction of the proposal's representative, all the Committee members agreed to an initiative encouraging each type of domestic production. To achieve that goal, it is noted that international documents and obligations signed by the Republic of Croatia must be taken into account. This legislative proposal prefers domestic production in relation to import products. The question has also been asked why the law requires the provision of the HBOR's obligations to give more favourable loans when there is a regulatory basis for which the HBOR can do so without the adoption of a specific law. It is also pointed out that the implementation of this Act would require a comprehensive regulation defining the domestic product. The applicant's representative pointed out that, in any event, the applicant's initiative was to introduce a system to encourage domestic production and thus sell domestic products according to a model similar to the one that exists in Spain. A positive example of encouraging domestic production related to Agrokor, which provides Croatian hotels with domestic products, is listed in the course of the discussion. It is also pointed out that this legislative proposal is contrary to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the WTO rules. The opinion is also expressed that this legislative proposal should be put into second reading in order to encourage the Government of the Republic of Croatia to give the most legally acceptable model to achieve the target. As a positive example of encouraging domestic production for tourism placement, the cooperation of Vukovar-Srijem County and Istria County has been highlighted. It is also proposed to obtain, in accordance with the provisions of the State Aid Act, the opinion of the Competition Protection Agency on this Legislative Proposal as well as the opinion of the relevant ministries and the HBOR. After the debate, the Committee reached its next conclusion with 6 votes in favour and 3 votes against. The proposal for a law on the promotion of domestic production for tourism placement is not accepted. Two, an acceptable initiative set out in this Legislative Proposal is assessed and the following is presented to the Competition Protection Agency, Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, the Ministry of Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy and the HBOR to give an opinion on how to implement this initiative in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61078	Thank you very much. We have one correction, Mr. Zeljko Kurtov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61079	Mr. Vice President. However, in the Support Act, we have opportunities for such a bill as proposed by the HSS and I will read it to you. However, paragraph 3 of that Article further states that the following State support may be assessed from the amended paragraph 1 of this Article. State aid in favour of economic development in the area of abnormally low standard of living or high unemployment. I.e. under (b) State support intended to promote culture and protect heritage and (c) State support intended to implement significant projects or to tackle difficulties in the economy. And finally, under d) state aid intended to encourage certain economic activities or certain economic areas. (e) State support for legal and natural persons entrusted under specific rules to carry out their duties. And under f) State support which is determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia with special regulations which are not contrary to the purpose of this Act. Therefore, in the Support Act, we have a foothold that this bill can be passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61080	Thank you. This is more of a replica to the presentation of the president of the board, but since there is no alternative than to correct an incorrect quote it may be considered to be a correction of an incorrect quote even though you have extended it. That's probably what you're going to explain in your presentation, isn't it? Thank you very much. Do the other committees want to? No, I don't. We're crossing. I'm opening a debate. Does the government want a representative? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is on behalf of the PGS club, SBHS, MDS, Mr Zeljko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61081	This time it's well spoken. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed promoters, the honorary representative of the ministry. The PGS Club, SBH and the IMF supports this Act, therefore supports the measures and incentives it foresees to promote Croatian products in our tourism. So a few important reasons why we support it. So we think that, first of all, this law will help stabilise domestic production in at least one small part in a way that will ensure the work of our production and exports because we consider tourism as a form of exports. We also support the fact that our regions will be more strongly connected, that what was known to be mentioned in our blue and green Croatia is more closely connected. In this way, some of our regions will be given the opportunity to get stronger incentives and products, so they will get the opportunity to place their products so that we from Međimurje will be easier to place on the Adriatic market our... our wines. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It will certainly be easier from Slavonia because it will be offered under more favourable conditions than it is so far, to be placed cool and quargel, and also from the south of Croatia will be easier and more favourable to be able to place and other products in the north of Croatia. We also think what will well happen is that there will be a balanced development of tourist offer in the whole of Croatia, and we think that this is one of the essential conditions so that our tourism can live in its own strength, and we all know that tourism is a large and export market for domestic products, which is unfortunately still not sufficiently valolized in Croatia. Croatia today is making over 9 million tourist arrivals out of almost 8 million foreign ones, and tourists totalling about 40 or 50 million nights of the day of stay. If the unregistered tourist traffic estimated at around 10 to 20%, it would actually be about a large market of about 10 million consumers, or 55 million overnight stays, of which 50 million foreign ones, which is a very large market due to the number of consumers. The importance of tourism as a market for the total economy stems from the fact that domestic agricultural and other products are being placed through tourism, which is therefore to be achieved through this Act, so these placements achieve more prices than in classical exports. Customs and other export barriers are avoided due to the lack of quotas and others, and goods which are very difficult and cannot be exported at all, such as: Although corrupt goods, etc. It also benefits countries that collect taxes, excise duties and others, which have been released. A large part of the sale is also charged immediately or faster than when it comes to classical exports, therefore due to the very nature of the operation of catering, trade and others. Due to the advantages mentioned above, all tourism countries seek to place as many domestic goods as possible through tourism to ensure micro and macro effects for the entire economy, and certainly this is also necessary for Croatia where we are recording the deficit, i.e. a negative external trade in agricultural and food products from year to year. As we know, Croatia is unfortunately, despite its significant production potential, the importer of food and agricultural products and in the external trade of agricultural and food products records a negative balance. That's how it is, for example. In 2005, imports of agricultural and food products exceeded $1.6 billion and total imports into the Republic of Croatia participated with 8.7%. The export of agricultural and food products generated $920 million, thus reducing the foreign trade rate to $695m. Food exports totalling the Republic of Croatia have a share of 10.5%. The previous year's exports of agricultural food products increased by 24% while imports increased by 11%. All of this results in a difference of minus 12 million kuna in the first month of 2006, i.e. In the 1st month of this year, goods were imported for 109 million, and exported to 97 million, therefore, goods of agricultural and food products. As a result, it is vital that we also stimulate domestic production by such laws. Also the fact that for now insufficient or inadequate domestic production as well as the fact that about 85% of our guests come from abroad, which means that there must be a part of them, a part of the reproductive needs of tourism, and further it will be necessary to subscribe from imports, but the development of tourism and development of the total Croatian economy is also of interest to seek and increase the placement of domestic goods through tourism. All previous contacts with tourism and manufacturing economic operators have identified a mutual interest in increasing the placement of domestic products through tourism. This will not be possible, however, unless the mutual needs and opportunities of the state are established to launch stimulating mechanisms that would allow greater orientation of domestic production for tourism purposes. In order to be able to take such appropriate incentive measures, it is necessary, on the one hand, to identify the overall quantitative and qualitative needs of tourism and, on the other hand, the potential of the production economy. As much as these needs are, there's no exact data. Determination of the need for domestic goods placement through tourism should be subject to a specific project, however, for an indicative orientation on the overall needs of tourism can serve as the basis of data from some typical hotel companies on the consumption of several important food products. So these estimates suggest that tourism needs for one year would be 10,000 tonnes of fresh meat, 4 thousand tonnes of dry meat products, 65 thousand eggs, 2,000 800 tonnes of sugar, thousands and 100 tons of pasta, which makes up about ten percent of the total production in our agriculture. Although these assessments should be taken with a particular reserve and the needs will therefore be more precise to process with a specific project. However, these data indicate the scope of the potential needs of tourism, or the possibility of placing domestic goods on the market. For certain types of goods or products, tourism can absorb significant quantities of domestic production and thus contribute to its stabilisation and development. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to define some measures. First, there is a need to coordinate needs and opportunities, secondly, to organise the necessary marketable distribution infrastructure. Thirdly, there is a need to develop in particular to promote integration from tourism and other economies, i.e. appropriate instruments and stimulating measures of economic policy, which would contribute to the higher placement of domestic goods, products through tourism. In view of this, therefore, it is also proposed that Article 5 is intended to be stimulated either through short-term unambiguous loans or through the lending of contracted production, so this law corresponds therefore and to these needs we will therefore as a club and support it. That's why he has our full support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61082	Thank you very much. We've got one correction, Mr. Representative, Zvonimir Sabati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61083	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd like for the sake of clarity to correct one by one an incorrect quote. Mr Pavlic, in his statement that I agree with him, stated that our agricultural production is insufficient or inadequate domestic production for tourism purposes. I don't agree with this because I don't think it's right. It's true that it's insufficient, but it's not true that it's inappropriate. This is confirmed by a whole series of numerous recognitions by our domestic producers at a number of international fairs. This confirms among other things, and recognised in the world of domestic quality. It's exactly insufficient, but it's not true that it's inappropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61084	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61085	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! We here in the hall no matter how few of us there are regardless of this topic which should be very interesting to us we are old enough to remember that former password "It is necessary to connect the green and blue field.". We're actually witnessing that from that parole that's 30 years old, nothing happened. The green field is never more abandoned than today. And more specifically, she was never too busy to direct that Croatian food towards Croatian tourism. It's common knowledge that we're importing too much today. Our imports of food are the largest in the last 15 years and we actually have the biggest imbalance between exports and imports and it is characteristic that we export half-products as sugar, as tobacco, healing plants until the final products in agriculture have found the opportunity to place them out into exports and we have also found no way to promote them on the shelves of foreign trade chains that are particularly strong in Croatia and in large tourist complexes. It should not even be mentioned that we have no brands in Croatian agriculture at all. If there's something a little familiar out there and home, it's Vegeta, all the other brands are on the side. Here, we in the HSS put this bill in the process for the second time. However, it is interesting that we have heard here today and committee opinions which, for the second time, together with the government use the same arguments to reject the proposal. The argument is about us, we don't need this law, we don't need to regulate it by law, we can regulate it with the programmes implemented by the ministries, which can possibly be implemented by the HBOR or by some other Croatian banks. And the second already stereotyped explanation we are listening to these days is this approach could damage the efforts that Croatia is making to join the European Union as soon as possible. It is interesting that we should not actually support domestic production and should not support domestic tourism through this kind of thesis if we interpret them. To me, that explanation resembles that already known policy of the stick and carrots where that carrot just symbolizes our goal of joining the European Union. After that carrot we keep running and the stick serves us to share pucks unless God gives us what is against the rules of conduct when entering the European Union, and then we often use the term of legal doubt in laws that support domestic production and economic activity. This law was on the list where we defined that he was the European law that the Government should have referred to the Parliament a little faster, and it is fundamental that we should use this space until we enter the European Union to encourage domestic production. To me this policy looks like a dog that's spinning around trying to catch its tail and that tail symbolises the goal too, that's Europe, it spins unsuccessfully in a circle of course, it can't catch the tail. However, I am afraid that in such behaviour we do not get stoned by the rotation and that such insidious people do not enter the European Union. We actually need to look for solutions, not constantly invent restrictions. That is why in the HSS we cannot accept this explanation that it is anti-European law and that this area should not be regulated by law. Conversely, we feel it is necessary to give a legal basis because for thirty years we have done nothing and we will not do another thirty unless we are firmly committed to quality solutions. We just need to know what's good for us and we need to find a model to realize it. It is obvious that Croatian products have too little in tourism. I'm not just thinking about food here this time. I mean furniture manufacturers, equipment manufacturers. Interesting is one of my experiences six years ago when I was in a hotel complex that was just renovated and after visiting I asked the director what was built in Croatian? What is the Croatian product? He said to me, "The flowers." Just flowers, living flowers. Even the jars were imported. Of course, when we were talking, we were drinking juice. The juice was Slovenian, the coffee was Italian, and when I came into the room, of course, and the soap was imported. What we had for lunch I don't think we should even say that in that food was in the most part an import component. However, can Croatian tourism have 51% to figuratively say domestic product? I believe that we can, but with one different policy, one completely different approach, but if different trends happen to us, I ask myself and you whether someone is protecting that import lobby that has been successfully imposing not only its brands for years. I'm still against the brands and I don't have that much. It also imposes bad food and other products. I'm going back to the furniture and other equipment that we're importing needlessly. And the fundamental question that I am asking is, are we allowed to even finance such imports in preparation for the tourist season? Because our state banks and HBOR fund cheap loans to purchase imported goods when preparing the tourist season. How others work, how others prepare, how others protect their product, we have countless examples. One interesting example was yesterday. Spain is the country we like to compare with in tourism. Yesterday on television we could see a handsome example of how they decided to support shoe production in Spain. Of course it is necessary to preserve the brand of those shoes because if a pair of shoes from China costs below EUR 5, then it is impossible to keep domestic production. The same story happens with us. It's impossible to compete with a white port, for example from China at a price. It is impossible to compete with peppers, tomatoes, grapes from Macedonia. The Spanish obviously found a model to do it. How can they do that? Well, it's simple. Because they want to. But so can we. But do we want to adopt here in the Parliament the law that offers us solutions that other countries that have long ago been in the European Union. This is how we're going to get into a situation where nothing is worth producing in Croatia because everything in the world is cheaper and we're going to buy everything and we're not going to produce anything. But one day it will likely run out of money for the purchase. In this law, it is important that some things we must do in the long term not only for the current tourist season but also for a period of over several years if we want to create brands of our own. If we want to think about Dalmatian, Istrian prosciutto. If we want to think about the Slavonic tower. This cycle of production takes several years. I want to mention the old plum that's still a brand in the world, but we don't. A fundamental question arises who will finance it? Who's going to organize it? To finance, of course, state banks, to organise, of course, the state ministries that are responsible for this and that is our proposal. But can you even arrange to produce anything one year in advance? Can we arrange for Croatian fruit and vegetables? Can we arrange anything a few years in advance? Oh, that's, that's actually impossible. Because food producers do not have enough trade capital as well as hotels and hotel complexes to invest in domestic production not only in one year but in the next three years if they want to raise plantations of domestic apples, pears and the like. So that's where the state has to be involved. That's more than clear. Is that interesting to tourists? Well, the answer here is simple. Tourists do not come to Croatia just because we have probably the most beautiful sea in the world and that the sun here is warm to say so under quotes in Croatia. They want to feel our home food, too. What we are recognizable for, what they all praise, but cannot reach this domestic food because we do not have a strategic plan in Croatia and let alone a plan of long-term investment to support domestic production for tourism and as well as to define for a longer period what kind of financial resources it is needed to support the sector. In this question, we must also think about continental tourism. According to some estimates, he participates in the total cake with 5%. It is known that the interior is under-exploited and poorly used even if there is no shortage of tourist attractions. In fact, adequate tourist infrastructure is also needed. We still have some sectors of tourism in our crops as eco tourism, such as hunting tourism, thematic, circular travel and the like. I would like to take advantage of these potentials through this law so that we can increase both directly and indirectly the benefits of tourism. However, it is necessary to adopt such a strategy in tourism that is aimed at sustainable development but with a focus on all the forms of tourism that will benefit all participants. This bill of law is exactly on the trail. It is not difficult to calculate how many effects we can expect by applying this law because once, a colleague Markov said on behalf of the promoter, but I will repeat. A tourist cake in Croatia from tourism is over $6 billion. The preparation of this year's tourist season is 6 billion kuna. With one small shift we can expect a significant growth in gross social product, we can expect increased employment, however, we need a new approach from tourism. In tourism. Not only in tourism but also in other sectors where we need to support domestic production. We also heard the day before yesterday from the prime minister that last year's growth was 4.3%. That's a nice figure since the forecasts were about 3.6.3.7%. Could we have a 7.8% growth as some other country? Well, of course we can. However, if we want to do so, this is the way to think, not to be afraid of what Europe will say. We don't create ourselves limitations, we don't need law. How does Europe think about that? Try using some in front of the European Fund. Will you be able to buy a product if you get a financial incentive that is not originating in the European Union? Of course you won't. So Europe has done this model a long time ago, which is completely and logically because it protects domestic production, protects its production. She created a system to protect not only her own economy, but also protect her financial institutions. The fundamental question is, if they can do it, why can't we? I don't think anyone's stopping us from deciding, but here in the Parliament, we shouldn't be enslaved now on whose suggestion this is. I think it is a Croatian proposal that protects Croatian interests and would not be difficult for us to assume if there are no political dilemmas for at least another reading, so that perhaps we can do some more repairs in this proposal and respect the remarks we will hear in the debate. I don't think there's exactly any reason why we shouldn't support domestic production. No one's defending us. Eventually, we are being defended by some of our fictions in our heads to prevent us from entering the European Union. We at the HSS Club think these doubts shouldn't be. This law is a good solution and I ask you to support it to pass another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61086	Thank you. The IDS Club is a respected representative of Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61087	Dear Mr. President and esteemed Secretary of State, distinguished fellow MPs. So when we talk about the participation of some branch in this example of tourism in the overall economy, I don't think we should fool ourselves and we should agree on something. In recent years, the fact has been true that at the annual level of tourism, approximately $7.7 and a half billion has been realized. Seven and a half billion dollars times six and a half, what's the dollar against the kuna. That's about 45 to 50 billion kuna. Now, does Croatian tourism participate in total income with 20% of those $7 billion on this second occasion because we simply cannot agree. Mr. Pecek is talking about 6 billion kuna, and Mr. Markov mentioned the Croatian National Bank's data of 27-29%. That would be 75 billion kuna or 11 and a half billion dollars, and that's just impossible. I'm looking at it from the position of Istria that participates in all of it with 42%. So Istria would have dropped 30 billion kunas. It just seems to me like it's a little excessive. However, regardless of whether we even stress the impact of tourism we are aware that without tourism Croatia would simply go bankrupt. In one word without tourism, and in such an external trade deficit, without the meaning of tourism, we simply could not serve external debt, and that is why this tourism is extremely important to us. That tourism on the other side of the road is not how we would like them to stand and how we imagine they stand most eloquently is that in the last 15 years on the coast nearly 6,000 miles long, five new hotels have not been built. That's what I keep talking about. About rebuilding or rebuilding the hotel, it's something else. Look, gentlemen, one of Opatija, Brijuni, Hvar, well, Dubrovnik has bounced off something I look forward to. Come on, and some Istrian environments have really bounced, but we have to ask ourselves why the unforgivably slow development of the tourism industry. And that's why any law that draws attention to the tourism club IDS absolutely welcomes it. That is why we welcome this law, of which it would certainly be possible if the greatest benefit was realised by Istria because it is 42.43% of the tourism traffic of the Republic of Croatia. However, it would also be good to talk through this law about the future of that branch. Only by chance to mention something that is indicative when tourism is by comparison, not only when the hotel is renovated it lies in the fact that, for example, in 2005 the property sale in Split-Dalmatia County was recorded by 40%, in Zadar County by 39%, in Istria by 29%, in Dubrovnik also by 29%, etc. So the question is, how do you run this activity? The HSS, among other things, proposes incentives for food and for restoration and regulation, and that is correct. Article 7 quotes: “The incentive provided for in Article 5 of this Act is granted to tourism companies, domestic producers of which tourist companies supply goods and products from Article 1 of this Act for the preparation of the season, etc. etc. I think it's fair to the hotelers. It is fair and according to producers whether it is food, whether it is equipment, whether it is legal, whether it is natural persons. There must also not be a distinction and it is a fair approach. The amount, meaning Article 9 can be the highest amount of up to 5 million kuna. Exceptionally, companies with 50 employees can be granted a larger loan. Article 5 is replaced by the following: That's where the 2% interest is now arranged. Credit is provided by the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. How much of that money should be secured in one year. I count a minimum of 500 million kuna. For example, 50 large companies would immediately demand 5 million kuna. That's 250 million kuna. 200 of them at least one million kuna, that's 200 million kuna. A thousand of them, say, up to 250,000 kuna, that's another 250,000 kuna, etc. etc. So ideally, it would mean somewhere here to meet all the needs in the first year somewhere around a billion kuna. So, to satisfy tourism companies, as well as producers from Slavonia who produce food, all the way there to those from Gorski Kotar who make furniture. Although to be honest with you other than Filipović, I do not know if anything else is when this furniture is done in Gorski kotar, whether to satisfy clearly construction firms from Dalmatia, Rijeka, equipment manufacturers from Zagreb, etc. The minimum minimum is 500 million kuna. Under these conditions, I would say it would be easy to reach a billion kunas of incentive. The difference in interest is gentlemen 4 to 5%, which should be covered by the Croatian Bank's funds for reconstruction and development. Which means 500 million kunas should be found between 25 and 30 million kunas. You probably agree with me that there's no free money. And so much is not the explanation of these financial assets, more specifically the assessment that no kuna should be provided on that basis. If there are such loans, and it is not interpreted by corruption, then advise us. However, this idea of this legislative proposal should absolutely not be rejected. However, it is clear that if someone, in the ministry's discretionary assessment, decides as is said here about previous consent, anything is possible. However, the final filter at the end is the bank and there wouldn't or there aren't too many sperms when the money is passed. I agree, too, that this time too is a step towards the principle of buying, as a matter of principle, Croatian. Of course, in the goods, whether it is, I don't know about the tower, the prosciutto, the furniture or I don't know the suit or any other thing I should know about credits like this at least that 50% of that substance is from Croatia. That should be prescribed in this law. But let's also be realistic, who runs Croatian hotel houses or who runs under the quotes of the "Croatian Bank". Well, 50% of the property in hotels is in foreign hands. And that other half is divided by 25% of the states and 25% by Croatian tycoons. Feel free to say it means not counting this little tourism family that 95% of the same or tourism is privatized, which is until, say, '92. Or until '95. any state. '92, '93. First, the banks enter, and then clearly after that, a complete shammon follows. And now the question is, where are the owners of these hotels going to buy? Well, that's where they're gonna buy where their prices are cheaper. However, it is clear that some measures should be taken because tourism as well as shipbuilding is a huge Croatian market. If we sell the tourist company, for example "Liburnia" or if we sell some shipyard, which we did. We gentlemen have sold a market on which a stranger or some 5th across it can place whatever it wants. I do not think our domestic tycoons who have 25% of Croatian tourism have more sentiments to the social or to Croatian national goods etc. the interest of strangers. I'm talking about interest. In fact, our tycoons are up to Croatia like last year's snow. So who's going to decide what's going to be placed in our tourism? They'll only decide one thing, that's the price. And let's not be naive and business relationships clearly with the supplier, with some builder and something like that. Is it crucial to say this 5 million kuna as much as it can be withdrawn under this law from the Parliament? It's not. But I agree, why don't we try what the HSS is proposing. Clearly, we wouldn't be if one honest initiative hadn't been abused, let's say, if we hadn't used it, if we hadn't compromised it. But it is certain that this law could in some way help the village, as well as the tourism economy. Could you help small producers, Slavonic peasants? And yes and no. Istrian winemakers? And yes and no. But it's always the same. Dalmatian little fishermen? And yes and no. They have their own, I don't know the oysters where they sell fish, so they may not have been placed in hotels. But I agree that those little ones need to be fought, and those little ones need to be put on their feet. For example, who buys cattle in Slavonia? They buy buyers. Who benefits from that? A peasant? Well, there's something, yes, there is. But we know who has the biggest. So what do we do? Bring these gentlemen the goods processed to a certain store. How? Here you can see gentlemen in HSS on page 2 you say that there is a marked lack of product-wide consumption sold to tourists through retail trade, so you list agricultural and food products, then you list shoes, clothing, valuables, souvenirs, tobacco, auto utensils, etc., and you are against the other side, for example. that small shops work on Sundays. Or 20 to 22 hours a summer when otherwise tourists, I don't know, only spend because they don't spend the afternoon. At +40 they're at the bath, not at the store. So, if we want this law to be brought to life, gentlemen, we need to send a message, I dare say part of the union, including the church, not to press the government with the ban on Sundays. And if it's the ones with the big chains, then let them tell us. And why am I saying that? So, I'm going back to that debate we had here, because the first 10 major trade chains in 2000 held 16% of the total tourist traffic, and today it holds 55%. And not only that, I read today that in Zagreb it is intended to build some large shopping mall at 100 hectares. What's he gonna say? It's gonna be 500 acres from tomorrow, okay? 500 acres, which will have tomorrow's share in that store no more than 55 or 60% but maybe 70%. So that's one little detail that you should also think about. What else do you say? This must be an interesting law. I honestly support him 100%. As I don't know, one Italy encourages Italian companies, e.g. a Fiat that residents of that country are buying these cars or Alphas, although the Germans have taken over over 50% of their market, so this measure should also be considered here. So, how do you help people? Give them credit, give them this incentive. The peasants, for example. about it now, selling the country, not on condition that the butchers, and small merchants, allow the craftsmen to reach business spaces because for them it's the same thing as for peasants, say the country. And I also dare say that in this country anyone who could have gotten something. The peasants will get the land. The workers of the flats if they lived in them. I don't know, socialist directors, tycoons got factories and managerial loans. We gave the foreigners banks. We didn't give the craftsmen anything. And we keep them from working on Sundays. So it's for the end. Mr. Pecek spoke of 6.7% of economic growth at the annual level. I'm also convinced that this can be helped. Clearly with small government interventions, although I am aware that the economy in this country will develop more and more by momentum. For the end one more time. We welcome at the IDS club this law, overnight God won't bring what, but we might get lucky if we don't make anyone happy. It should try even if in the budget for this difference in interest where it will need to be secured from 0 to 4 and up to 5%, and 6% should ensure that 500 million kuna is about 30, 40, 50 million kuna a year, but this is certainly a commendable initiative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61088	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Željko Ledinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61089	Here's just for the sake of clarity, Mr. President, I need to correct my colleague Caine when he was talking about the link between the Act on the ban on work on Sundays and this law. The HSS Club advocated banning work on Sundays, but in tourist areas we supported...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61090	What's the correcting of an incorrect quote?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61091	It's an incorrect assumption that we were against it, and it connects it now in the context of this. It is also an incorrect assumption that the peasants have won the land. Our peasants didn't get land, the land sale process is still under way. That's two incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61092	It's good. The Honorable representative, Zvonimir Sabati, is correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61093	Mr. President, a colleague of Ledinsky's actually right in front of me that the peasants would get the land. The peasants never got anything, they knew how to fight everything and so it didn't stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61094	Correction of false promises.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61095	Yeah, that's what you should be talking about, not us.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61096	Honorable representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61097	Thank you very much. In short, I will try to show myself to what my colleague Cain said. This law is primarily in line with the needs of the Croatian economy. He is not of course we hold the opposite of neither the interests of the church nor the interests of the citizens. I don't know what Cain found in him that he tried to figure it out with him that way. I'd like to make it very clear. The proposed Act on Incentives of Domestic Production is not contrary to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement because it does not discriminate against imported goods in relation to domestic products, even the opposite. I think this is about the conditions where we have excessive imports of agricultural and other products, that it's simply discrimination with import products, that domestic production is discriminated against and that, in fact, because of the inequality of financial opportunities, domestic production is discriminated against. Why? All goods entering the Republic of Croatia are encouraged by those countries whose goods they are. So every country that delivered its goods to Croatia through any company or broker has encouraged this export production even here when the goods that actually came in relation to our domestic goods were privileged, and our domestic goods were actually discriminated against. Therefore, the government's view that it is a disagreement with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is entirely wrong. Secondly, the government's view that every year a programme is being adopted that encourages domestic production. We simply have not seen or discussed such a program so far. If you are referring to the program project Croatian product for Croatian tourism we know that it is done, but their presentation or the basics that he means to present we did not get. It is also an incorrect qualification that domestic products are difficult to compete in import, primarily because of their inconsistencies in quality as well as because of the modest possibilities of adding new values. I think it's not true, and it's not nice to write about domestic goods and domestic production at all. Because it is precisely Croatia with its healthy environment, healthy food and all the recognizable autonomous gastronomic offer that is no longer reserved only for the Adriatic area, for the area of Dalmatia, but simply for this gastronomic offer, you can meet the tourist environment in both Slavonia and Zagorje and Varazdin and Bjelovar, almost everywhere, and this particular goal must be set as the ultimate goal. It is not Croatian tourist only in the Adriatic and islands, it is touristic in its entirety. Because the elements of these very gastro-quality, we're just meeting everywhere, which is why it's just incomprehensible that there's such an untruth in explaining the arguments why it doesn't accept the law. The arguments given simply do not stand the most important argument that Croatia would deviate from the international commitments made regarding the European Union. That's incorrect. This is not about anything but about the lending of domestic production intended for export. At this moment domestic production, the lending of domestic production by Croatia takes place in shipbuilding and elsewhere and would be better done in other sectors. We don't need to be afraid of that. The argument taken in terms of non-compliance for higher lending is not an argument, not an alibi, but simply I can call it a mistake or a misunderstanding. Because if you look at the production in shipyards by content and completeness of the production of the ship that contains everything in it and all the expensive supplies can be compared in some way to tourism as a market and to all those who can have interest in that market if we allow them to return to the game. At this point, we have a Croatian domestic economy that is unfortunately slightly out of play. We want him back on the ground and to prepare, strengthen, and that in a year two on a completely competitive basis can compete with anyone and not only in Croatia, our agricultural products and other products by maturing on the tourist Croatian market will be ready and will be able to compete on the world market. Therefore, this law does not need to be closely understood, it does not need to be asked for mathematical defects, certain technical defects, certain lacks of fittings, not fittings, whether HABOR will approve quick loans or not. Well, I guess the HABOR of this country is, if this state says HABOR has to act and act like it, then the HABOR will act that way. Well, it's not the HABOR state in the state. We'll tell HABOR how he's going to work and how fast he's going to solve something. Therefore, there are no problems in that part of the technical nature. The problems are here, they're not content. I don't think anyone here is against what we're talking about. Obviously here we need to break whether something the opposition suggested should consider in perhaps one different way, and I suggest that the clubs agree together. To achieve a minimum with the Government that this material can revive the light of day and that in a year we can tell this Law has infused a small shift. With a little shift. But the message this Law would bring is much more powerful than all those measures and those of the interest-free loans that would be obtained. The message is what's most important and it wouldn't be good if we lost exactly that strong, at this point, I believe the general agreement on the need to strengthen the domestic economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61098	Thank you. We will continue at 3:00 with the correction of the respected representative Damir Kajin and the SDP Club, the respected representative of Dragica Zgrebec. It's 13:30 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue the session of the debate on the Proposal for a Law on the Encouragement of Domestic Production for Tourism Plating. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61100	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, two, three hours ago when in his discussion, Mr. Markov claimed that I was literally calculating with their legal proposal. That's obviously not an exact quote. I polymerized with Article 2. The HSS's legislative proposal where they seek a greater share of small trade in the exchange or sale of goods is absolutely correct, and on the other hand they oppose the work of Sunday of these same small shops. Apparently, they're in college, and in that part, I've polymerized them, not calculating them with Article 2 of their legal proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61101	It's a real school example of correcting an incorrect assumption that it's not calculated, it's polymerizing. Honorable representative Dragica Zgrebec, on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61102	Thank you, Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. But it would be good if our proposings were here so they could hear what we're gonna say when they're looking for our support, right? Without him, you have to, don't you? I will say that we at the club support the idea that the law also regulates domestic production, so we will support this Law in our first reading. Croatia should necessarily increase its exports and the direct one, but also the one that can best be realised through tourism services and tourism, in one word a tourist product. Our tourism can be a chance for domestic production because a foreign tourist is happy to consume but also buys a dominant product if it meets its criteria. A quality product and a competitive product will certainly find a placement on both domestic and foreign markets, but we must overall ensure the conditions for increasing the quality and competitiveness of domestic production, so this can be one of the ways to do so. Croatia has a long-standing growth in the balance sheet deficit that has drawn close to nearly 10 billion dollars and we really have to make efforts to then in this second part of the balance sheet, so the export of services, and tourism can in some ways say that this is also indirect exports doing everything possible to reduce this trade deficit. This is the second attempt by the HSS club with such a law, and for the second time, the government gives a negative opinion, or suggests that we do not accept even in the first reading this proposal. The government also calls for the adoption of such a law to have certain problems in the world trade organisation, in our negotiations with the European Union, because it also says it is regulated in state support. At the same time, he says he only supports this idea and that he is doing something about it, so that a public tender for the construction of a Croatian product for Croatian tourism is being held, that he is already accepted at the offers of the Institute for Tourism and that is how the government will be involved. However, we believe that this problem can also be solved through the law because these are not classic support that should be seen and harmonised with the overall economic needs, support and incentives, but we think that we should have complete material when reading this Act and the opinion of the Competition Protection Agency. Personally, and also at the club, we think this is actually the point of crediting with interest subsidies, and it shouldn't be treated as support or incentives either. We also have certain suggestions on the text of the law, so I'll try to explain them very briefly. The name of the Law on Incentives of Domestic Production in Tourism should also be defined in the same way as in Article 1, so this Law regulates the promotion to add domestic production of goods intended for the design of Croatian tourism products, etc. They are clear when it comes to what it is, which are products that will be placed in tourism and have this kind of incentive, then as regards agricultural and food products and the production of organic products, the original Croatian products which are subsequently defined in Article 2 are clear. However, what can be undertaken under these definitions is the purchase of products and goods of domestic production for the renovation, editing and preparation of catering facilities for the tourist season, and in particular this fourth line of purchase of other products and goods of domestic production for the substantive enrichment of the total offer in the preparation of the tourist season. It's a really broad definition and generalized and should be defined more closely. Since our industrial production is highly dependent on imports, it is also likely that the participation of the domestic component in the finished product should be established which could be undertaken under this method of helping domestic production. Article 5 defines what incentives these are. I'm saying these aren't classic incentives, they're more loans that might be more favourable than they are right now in business banks, so we have a loan that's interest-free, we have a 2% loan a year. I believe that Article 5 should be brought into line with Articles 8 and 10 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. If the terms of the contract are defined, then it should probably be approximately the deadlines of these loans. As regards Article 8 where loans are spoken there are also defined contracts which must be accompanied by verifications, therefore certified by the competent ministry and what they must contain and to which number of years to be concluded. So, for a minimum of 3 years, he has to insist on such a contract. However, in Article 10 where loans are referred to there are no such conditions that there should also be a contract and how long the duration of such a contract should be. And the last suggestion we have seems to us or we are certain that one such law that actually regulates the use of certain credit funds for participants in production that will end up in tourism should also determine sanctions. In other words, there are criminal provisions, which if the funds are not spent on purpose or what if they are not executed by the contract. Surely there should also be certain sanctions to be imposed by this Law. Now, with these, these few remarks and suggestions, our club will vote for this law to be adopted in the first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61103	Thank you. In 15 and 10, the time has expired for a ten-minute hearing on this point. The HDZ representative club, the respected representative Kresimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61104	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. This is certainly an interesting proposal, I would say an interesting initiative, an idea that deserves attention, but certainly all of this is not enough to come up with a bill that could get full support in the Croatian Parliament. I'll tell you what. Certainly the question remains whether what was defined by the bill's proposal is sufficient. The goal is to encourage domestic production for tourism placement. I think it would be logical to set one slightly more serious, more comprehensive, more comprehensive goal which would include only one of the components that would be focused all together, that integrated, sufficiently balanced and complete and consistent way in the form of a law, which would be aimed at strengthening. Instead, they encourage strengthening domestic production for tourism placement. I think that strengthening domestic production for tourism placement is a far more comprehensive, more justified and comprehensive goal than just insisting on incentives in an almost isolated segment that is not representative and which is not and cannot be the driver of a modern, modern Croatian tourism today, tomorrow in the future. For these reasons it is quite clear that further work on such a document will be necessary, necessary. It will be necessary and necessary to co-ordinate the proposal's efforts together, but all others who are interested. First of all with the Government of the Republic of Croatia and other institutions of the Republic of Croatia, mentioning the Institute of Tourism, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of the Sea and Tourism. Without full cooperation from all these institutions, it is impossible to come up with a whole law of such character that, as I said above all, should be focused on strengthening domestic production and on placement in tourism, which may include partial incentives, restructuring, reorganisation, etc. This initiative, as the promoters said, is the result of an unadjusted structure of domestic production to the needs of designing a very complex and demanding tourist service, and we can agree on that. However, what I would like to point out, modern tourism today requires much more than what I would say, unfortunately speaking in this bill. I will not only say about sheets and beds but also other segments, and I will say that many other important components that I will seek to highlight are important for the restructuring and modernisation of Croatian tourism so that it can offer better quality services in order to make it more long-term on the market today that is increasingly competitive and demanding. Furthermore, the promoters stressed and this can be accepted and it should be agreed that the number of economic operators participating in or contributing to enriching and expanding the tourist offer is not enough. I would say it is not diverse and high quality compared to the needs, opportunities for the placement of different goods and services on the tourist market. In one place, there is something that deserves attention and that will hold me a little longer. The high share of foreign products on the Croatian tourist market is said to be the result of the technological inferiority of the Croatian economy and most of the major direct imports of final products, which significantly reduces the economic effects of tourism. Because the value of imported goods is not used for its own production potential, but which has yet to be created, formed, improved, and that is what should be the objective of joint efforts. It has been pointed out that the focus on imports has been overemphasised because the overall development potential of the Republic of Croatia is narrowed down without the activation of its own production potential. And these general objectives that are highlighted in this document certainly deserve attention, but what is more than obvious to the provisions of this Law, some articles do not comply with such ambitious objectives. Here's an example. It is said, among other things, that modernization is a structural adjustment of domestic production, primarily agriculture, fishing, the processing industry is necessary. It is mentioned textiles, glass, metal gallery, paper confectionery, construction material, paper packaging, plastic packaging, etc. This certainly is not enough for one more ambitious, more competitive, more modern Croatian tourism and this is a lack of what this Law contains in certain provisions, in individual articles. Article 2 of this Act highlights the following in the context of the incentives in which they are spoken, mentions agricultural products, fresh fruit, vegetables, meat, livestock products, wine, fish, seafood, beer, non-alcoholic beverages, the processing of those products, the dairy bakery industry, etc. Also mentioned is reproductive material, it is about bed linen, catering supplies, diets, drinks, paper, plastic packaging and other products. And the view of the HDZ Club is very simple that everything that is mentioned here is unfortunately not enough to come to a more restructured, competitive, more modern form of services that Croatian tourism needs and can offer. Given more than obvious, to the coherence of the objectives defined by the law itself, with its provisions, I stressed the following, that the work to achieve this law is to work on this idea which is to come. I'm stressing especially next. Improving the quality of competitiveness of Croatian tourism is necessary through more complex and sophisticated services to make it truly modern and modern. I'm going to point out some of the elements that are not spoken of in this law here and not spoken in the debates so far. I will stress just for example some important components that modern tourism has today, various information services, the internetisation of marinas, the E marina project Croatia is certainly a project that deserves attention. New services based on information and communication technologies, wireless networks, the modernisation of nautical tourism are certainly important components that should be part of one designed, complete strategy on restructuring and increasing the competitiveness of Croatian tourism in the long term. Just a few simple examples. You probably didn't know that the safety of nautical tourism is a serious problem that deserves special attention. The statistics of the insurance houses show that your yacht or your ship as part of some organized nautical tourism in the Republic of Croatia is far more likely to sink. It's much bigger in the marina than at sea. The safety of the vessel in the marinas. It certainly offers a whole range of different services that information and communication technologies and one technology sector can solve in a more comprehensive and competitive way than it has ever been before. I'll mention the automatic water control device in the vessels, the transmission of that information to the operating center. Furthermore, what happens to us very often within our nautical tourism that we claim to be the most pro-pulsant, the most important part of Croatian tourism as a whole is the inadmissible fact that over 2 days sometimes we need to discover a vessel. In today's commercially available technologies, GSM, GPS, GPRS etc. It is unacceptable to search for vessels for two days. The aspect of the security of nautical tourism is very important in order to make the service we offer more modern, quality and to make all those who are an integral part of this nautical tourism feel more comfortable and secure in this important Croatian market. Here are a few more ideas that seem to deserve attention in the context of modernising all these services of fires in marinas, safety at sea, safety in marinas, but one project seems to deserve special attention. Croatian ship as an integral part of modern nautical tourism Croatian product. However, there are certainly more than obvious trends that a large number of entrepreneurs from medium and small companies appear on the market, but without standardisation of certain products, equipment, no rounding, so-called clustering, supplying new services and cooperation of all these small producers that will be united into a larger whole system. No new quality, no competitiveness, no desired growth. A shipping institute, an institution that can offer many significant services in the sector, is almost untapped. A ship of such character may be an integral of many other economic activities not only the production of shell, design, testing, hydro dynamic testing, testing of ship electronics, manufacturing of ship electronics, etc. These are components that can be part of a modern, modern tourism and more comprehensive, more complete service of the Croatian economy. That's what this is about. It's about not only encouraging but what I said and I want to stress the strengthening of domestic production for tourism placement. We must concentrate on all those activities characterised by higher added value, the focus on greater added value deserves special attention as the right way to restructure Croatian tourism and its modernisation. And this is the right path which, unfortunately in the provisions of this law, what has been said so far is not necessarily highlighted or highlighted. Furthermore, when it is necessary to import there is a whole series of different mechanisms we talk about such as FSET techniques and everything else that can contribute to the transfer of technology to the Republic of Croatia given our market where others earn money, and we look at it all. Faster growth of gross national income, faster growth of the market, nautical tourism and tourism as a whole, higher employment is almost impossible without these important additional changes that deserve our attention. In the view of the Government, the Republic of Croatia is also mentioned that the Government of the Republic of Croatia in cooperation with the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development carried out a public tender for the construction of a Croatian product for Croatian tourism. Those results should certainly be heard in the context of a public debate. All that is valuable and useful to integrate into a future document which I should have said was very clear to strengthen production in the Republic of Croatia for the purposes of Croatian tourism. The HDZ Club, from what we have heard so far, supports the basic idea, the initiative, supports improving business links between the tourism sector and domestic agricultural producers. But in order to reach a law that can be accepted that would make Croatian tourism more competitive, more quality, more modern, even significant efforts need to be made. Support for this initiative, but without further joint work there is no document that would deserve stronger support from all representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61105	Thank you. Representative Ivan Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61106	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. So here on behalf of the promoter that not a lot of different opinions would now be on the latest address of the gentleman outside the HDZ Club, believe me, there's a lot of this kind of principled support. They don't mean anything. It would be better if we were involved in the direct creation of this law, and as proposings, we accept the absolute suggestions of all those well-intentioned, and all in order for our external trade balance and what is happening to us in agricultural production especially that our import is booming to at least try to stop it if we don't cut it down. This kind of declaration of support means nothing to farmers. They are rounding up those who are now importing, who are in the future importing and who are imposing their pace on farmers and these service activities that equip tourism and all this is said now. So we invite all those who are well-intentioned and really think that a step must be made, and he really should make himself available to us with ideas of approach, let them come up with every article as wide as possible, in which way and so on. We are willing to discuss everything and talk only to start segmentally if we do not fully solve this problem. I have to answer to all those who are "faithless Tom" that the world does not particularly protect agricultural production and how wise the world is and we are not going to do it with such a small step. The WTO, as the largest such organization, has a frigid method in which it binds farmers to it, stimulates them, and then imposes itself as a partner practically around the world in a way that no one can object to them. And that's why as long as our negotiators are thinking, we have to act. To act in a way that, I will now speak from the point of view of agriculture the most. A farmer who, for example, owns an annual production of 500 thousand kunas enters a large-door business bank and can receive $350,000 on a non-interest loan but is bound to produce goods for that famous buyer in that calendar year on condition that the buyer has told him. So you define the price, the deadlines, and he has to deliver it. No interest in the year and he produced it. Did we make any other suggestions? A model that the whole world knows and where it is, which is in effect. If the gentleman concerned, the farmer does not supply the goods eventually find a more expensive or better pay to get a higher price he is obliged to credit there, in that year return, to pay commercial interest and a year more reluctant to obtain such credit. Let's get it into our law, make a commitment. What effect does that accomplish? It is achieved that a well-known buyer means one that we now prefer a tourist company, a company, I don't know what it's called the one with the business bank, and the business bank we propose to be the state bank HABOR which is for such things and all those who want to say it, and have a bonus set to height and everything is said to which, to which heights they must be partners. They want their own, peasant their own product... and the placement is known for whom it goes under familiar conditions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We've achieved the safety of peasant production, we've secured the price of that trip. The loan, or better financial resources, was unburdened by a special interest rate and started production. The most important thing is to start production. There's a so-called so-called. One syndrome, rural syndrome, a psychological moment where a farmer no longer enters the production where he doesn't know what his economic calculation is. Believe me, this hour it's possible to raise production but there's simply no security and it stops at one level. The peasant doesn't spend his substance anymore because he spent it. He no longer trusts anyone to buy him that product, pay him more if he doesn't and if he doesn't, he doesn't. And if we remember since 1990 when we lost our cooperatives, when we lost the producer, when we no longer know who we're producing for, we have this condition that continues. Now this is actually a proposal where actually a mediator would be called and who organized it for a well-known buyer and, in fact, the ultimate consumer of production. If you think it's not good to say it, then you need to get away from it and say, "That's not good." But just to take the initiative and not get involved in it, I have to say it openly, the villagers probably think that it suits someone and encourages them to be even worse. And we don't have time to think about whether we need it or not? We have to act. This model, this initiative, first reading, we need to polish it three readings. It's gotta be to turn it upside down, but let's do some. If we make it in one area, we've made a big step. If we do more service activities, equipment, if we make a step further by following the redecorating industry, then we've done a hell of a lot. But I personally tend to take the impression that we are, because we are participants in all of this, that we are silently allowing the situation to just be up every day. It's not going to get any better, believe me. There's no better condition, and there's one concern why we're not moving from a dead end? Why don't we give some hope and no, we're not the initiators of improving the situation ourselves? We're the indirect culprits. We want to admit it or we don't want to. Me, you, all together. And this is just one little segment to help a peasant? And so really, the well-intentioned ones who want to help us, they want to be with us, we don't need it because our initiative doesn't think it's "Holy Letter", let's make a suggestion that we all step forward together and that today this excessive import and ultimately, we discussed this whole thing yesterday because there's a lot of things going on along with the imports that should be channeled, that shouldn't go to this side and there shouldn't be corruption or bribes. There wouldn't be a lot of different things going on along with that. And I'm saying this can be channeled nicely in a way that there are obligations, that there are rights in both the end and the penalty. And there's no reason to question good intentions. All we have to do is be a participant, and here's what we suggest is we try to agree on. If we're not supposed to vote on this, we'll agree on an initiative. To accept it as such. Let's do it, we're actually ready to argue, but don't delay the time and say let it last while it lasts, because I'm telling you it's becoming that bitter taste that suits someone to keep that condition going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61107	Thank you. For the club of the HNS, the respected representative of Željko Kurtov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61108	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The purpose of this proposal, which is proposed to be adopted, is to regulate its adoption legally the promotion of domestic production, which would then be placed for Croatian tourism. Goods would be produced to create Croatian tourist products, enrich the tourist offer, prepare catering facilities and increase the total tourist consumption. It is proposed that the incentives consist of short-term, non-monetary loans for one year and the lending of contracted production intended for tourist consumption at 2% interest. It's a 10-year-old deadline. All of these incentives would be provided by the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development with the participation of the competent ministry. The government was shown to support the idea, encourage domestic production for tourism placement, but to oppose the proposed solution because the government says it is contrary to certain laws and measures internationally accepted by the Republic of Croatia. The government also calls for its own programme of activities to prepare the tourist season and stresses that loaning programmes are already being financed from different sources. We are aware that currently the multiannual situation in the Republic of Croatia is the permanent domination of imports over exports. It can also be seen as a fact that the Republic of Croatia is a large and yet under-exploited economic potential one of our comparative advantages is certainly our coast, sea and islands which provide opportunities for us to achieve already large revenues through tourism. We are witnessing that the current state of the tourist season lasts only a few months. The corresponding tourist offers are often missing, and a large quantity of goods offered has been imported. In view of all the above, the obligation to connect domestic production with tourism is imposed as one of the possible solutions to the existing situation in order to make tourism a multiplier of Croatian development. When we talk about a country's tourist offer, one of the basic elements that makes the country recognizable, and therefore interesting international levels is our kitchen. The kitchen of a country gives an important and inescapable insight into the country’s culture. Tourists who come to our coast each summer should be able to get to know the food specific to our climates, thus getting to know one aspect of our people's culture. In other words, allow the tourist offer to sell, for example, Dalmatian prosciutto, heartle, Slavonic ham, coolen, Zagorje scrutkles, homemade olive oil, homemade cheese, which is also recognised at world level. And many other domestic products, not imports. But such products should not have the mark of Croatian products for Croatian tourism but should be products produced in Croatia and, among other things, placed in a tourist offer. In other words, not only should some new products be sought, which would then be classified as a tourist offer, but these already existing products are made available. Warm water should not be invented, but products that are already manufactured or produced in Croatia should be placed through tourism. It is also not necessary to ignore the positive effects of connecting other economic branches, such as shipbuilding or tourism industry. Such integration of tourism development would also have a positive impact on the development and improvement of these other important economic branches. The government believes that any idea of connecting domestic production and tourism can be achieved by producing different programmes without direct legal regulation. However, it is said that legal regulation would be contrary to existing laws because the proposed way of supporting tourism is not allowed under the State Aid Act. However, if we refer to that law, more specifically Article 4(3), we can note that that law also provides for certain cases in which it exceptionally allows for appropriate state support. I quote the State Support Act Article 4 which states in paragraph 1: "Unless otherwise specified by this law, it is considered not to be in accordance with this law by those state aids which, regardless of their form, violate or threaten to distort competition. By conferring a market advantage on the beneficiary of state aid, in particular to the extent that it can also affect the fulfilment of international commitments made by the Republic of Croatia.". However, paragraph 3 of the same Article further states that: "It is exceptional from paragraph 1 of this Article that the following State support may be assessed in accordance with this law. State aid in favour of economic development in the area of abnormally low standard of living or high unemployment.", it's under a). Under b): "State support intended to promote culture and protect heritage.". Under c): "State support intended to implement significant projects or eliminate difficulties in the economy.". And finally, under d): "State aid intended to encourage services of general economic interest or to establish the exclusive right to carry out certain activities, and without which state support would be impossible to carry out the tasks entrusted.". And under the following: "State support which has special regulations is determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is not contrary to the purpose of this law.". According to the above, the government's view is that the need to connect tourism and domestic production, and the promotion of both branches could be classified in points (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) only legally regulated. It is also unwarranted to justify the inability to connect these two important branches of the Croatian economy by calling for competition because, among other things, the State Support Act and the surrounding area would take into account those exceptions. It is precisely because of this, and in order to take into account the interests of the Republic of Croatia primarily, I think it is necessary for the Government to present a complete proposal for its imaginary activities, so that representatives in joint discussions and through the discussion come up with the best solutions. I think that in Europe and nowhere in the world, no one would blame us that in the districts where BDB is 5 or 6 thousand dollars we in some way give the right to develop this area and to earn more personal income, greater employment, etc. Therefore, the Croatian People's Party fully accepts and supports this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61109	Thank you. For the National Minorities Club, the esteemed representative of Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61110	Dear Mr. President, dear secretary, colleagues and colleagues! The National Minority Club supports the adoption of this law on encouraging domestic production for tourism placement. Every autumn, we listen to how much Croatia has earned from tourism, how much tourism participates in the social gross product and how much it is in the state budget. Every spring and these days the press is full of titles with how many hotels and how many stars we welcome guests. Unfortunately, little is said and written about what we will offer a guest on a plate or in a glass, how many homemade cuisines, how many indigenous products each tourist country is proud of, what souvenir we will offer knowing that we have a paška and beautiful-headed lace, a Slavonic goldsmith who often because of lack of funds but also those who know how to make it, we are still in grandmother's boxes and museums. How to stimulate crafts, housework and how a tourist from Croatia would take exactly what is recognizable and thus also promote Croatia. With little resources with little skill, thousands of jobs could certainly be created there. No specific agricultural products are lagging behind in the form of souvenirs offered by plums, lawns, hams, fig jams, virgin olive oil but insufficiently, often unequal quality in insufficient quantities and excessive prices. If the total value of social gross tourism products on agricultural and food products is 20% of this item exceeds one billion dollars. Unfortunately, in these products we will find imported honey and our bear producers from Like these days are announcing a decrease in production because they have no one to sell it to. We took people back to that space, gave them the production loans, but that little marketing stuff was missing and everything was ruined. On the menu, we'll find imported butter and cheeses on the supply of imported meat especially to the United States of America, lambs from Zealand that we don't even talk about. After the war, we invested a lot in sheep's farms specifically to ensure the existence of displaced Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina. Today, shepherds have no one to sell lambs, an organized ransom does not exist, and surely such a product on a plate would be better quality than a frozen Zeland lamb. Great efforts are being made to build cattle farms. The plan is 300 farms a year, the minister mentions a thousand and more, but because of the slow construction we realize ten, twenty. In increasing these productions and in order to obtain credit and support in order to increase capacity, it is also necessary to provide a confirmation of the buyer of such production. This is what often becomes the main limit because our shopping and catering chains are not interested in buying domestic production because they only care about the price, not the quality or promotion of Croatia. I stress this for the importance of encouraging production not only for the tourist season but also for encouraging infrastructure, to accelerate, increase these and other productions before entering the European Union. At the same time, in Brussels, quotas are defined for milk, meat, sugar, wine, fruit, which will, above all, limit us farmers in certain productions. We support the intensification of this law to connect the tourism activity sector with credit policies and loans, primarily with the agriculture sector because both activities are seasonal. Tourism lasts two to three months a year but requires large funds, investments in tourist facilities. Agricultural production is often related to several years when it comes to livestock, fruit growing, wine growing. It must be planned long-term and without serious incentives and integration in which the important role must play and the state has no progress. We will continue to have large oscillations of offers on the domestic market and the hyperproduction of imported goods that is highly encouraged in the countries of origin. I must say that the EU often restricts the promotion of agricultural production, favouring domestic products but does not restrict the promotion of the processing of these products, the marketing design of these products, the development of rural space, the increase of the regional standards, which are all the opportunities to be used to create a domestic recognizable product and which, by such support, can become competitive on the market but also be an important and recognizable offer in tourism consumption. It is also important to encourage the creation of a market infrastructure which is more often a problem than the production of a product itself and which was destroyed in Croatia, and Kolar spoke a lot earlier about it. All of this was generated by the creation of a large gray market in the area of marketing with agricultural products and, above all, on the route of Primorje-Dalmatia-Slavonia, which says that the needs exist but are not sufficiently regulated. By crediting the buyer with legal paperwork, and that segment would at least partially resolve itself. The special segment is the construction and equipment of the interior of tourist facilities where we are really increasingly competing by foreigners who do this even with our raw materials, with a wood wiper but picking cream. In order for all of this to be done through tourism, the role of the state as a strategist, which must enable all brands to be created by its regulatory and financial support and especially by the Croatian tourism brand based on Croatian production, is important. That is why we support this law that needs to be completed by the second reading. And if we are afraid of VTO or the European Union's reactions, let us give it the importance to join the European Union by the day of entry and by then join the green and blue furrows, create Croatian brands, and thus we will be more recognizable to become an equal member of the Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61111	Thank you. For the club HSLS, respected representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61112	Dear Mr. President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I've been here with some colleagues doing a little test like this so that we all wonder what we have on us, how trained we are and how many domestic products are on us and I'm afraid that the results would be more than devastating. You need to be honest. Here, I say the same thing, I admit that almost no product that I am here alone is produced in Croatia. And that certainly isn't good. Normally, if I say it this little bit through a joke, but through actually great truths then even in tourism it won't be much better. We can easily ask ourselves what tourism is to us and what we are to him. No one here will say anything against tourism, however, at one declarative level we will all say that it is one significant Croatian brand, that it really depends on these very difficult economic situations that it is still one of those sectors that really helps us to function and that there is obviously big money spinning there. Now, the second question is how do these money distribute? I think that's where they actually come in and that's where we deal with the big problems. I remember October 1990 in Rijeka was then under the auspices of the first president of the Republic of Croatia Mr. Tudjman, and then it was not yet the Republic of Croatia but we were still called the Socialist Republic of Croatia the Charter signed, the Adriatic Charter signed by 8 cities from the south and 2 cities from the continent, the colors of the continent and northern Croatia were defending Zagreb and Osijek and of these 10 cities, i.e. the other 8 cities there were Split, Rijeka, Dubrovnik, Sibenik, Zadar, Pula, or I accidentally skipped someone. And just the idea of this Adriatic Charter was to just connect this green and blue Croatia and that something that is actually very logical and precisely that some complementary advantages of Croatia are being used in the right way. Then we can say that after the war came and that these good plans and projects had to be expanded and put in for a better time. The Adriatic Charter in the City of Osijek left her hanging somewhere in the county building seems to me, we didn't even have enough political power, nor was there a will to move to the premises of the City of Osijek after 1993 and is simply probably collecting dust. From that idea I'm saying it didn't come up, or except I'm saying a good idea, it hasn't mostly been realized, and now we can see how tragic it is when we look at how much it invests in this tourist season in 2006 and then I think there are five counties of these southern and somewhere it's almost 3 and a half, 4 billion kuna, and up in these northern counties they're related, it all seemed to me 357 million if memory serves me well. I think even now that I'm talking, I'm actually speaking from this perspective of this continental Croatia right now I think that, besides tourism, agriculture should be our second Croatian brand, that there really is this big space that should be used. We can also take this as some fellow MPs take the newspaper and then read the situation again. Well, then I don't know yesterday the PIC Vrbovac was in that context that someone was receiving an 80,000 dollar salary. The situation in IPK Osijek is no better. All the white people would like to win for the kuna and to have the state forgive the debts, that is, to be resolved from the budget. The situation in VUPIK or PIK Vinkovci or some others is no better. And I think there are really these very great resources and potentials, and that, in this sense, connecting this green and blue Croatia could already happen without any major problems, and in some way put into some balance exactly the investment of what belongs, investment, although I think I understand these data should be taken with the reserve, because it's only direct investment and I certainly don't think it is exactly, that this rebalancing is exactly 90% in one county, and only 10% in the other. But it also says that there is actually no interdisciplinary approach and that for some time it seems to me now that we are going to realize this principle idea that we are for tourism because tourism is very important, then we actually fall on the first step and that we are just allowing it to be a space that everyone else is using, and at least we ourselves. I'm usually a man who's creeped out by every colonial or half colonial policy. I think it is that, that it should be foreign to each of us, that these processes of globalisation that are as they are and are inevitable also that there is enough space that allows us to really keep our own speciality and that here with the political will of this, which exists in this Parliament, I am deeply convinced that if each advocate faced with some small test that he is really willing to put an end to this import lobby. I don't think it's really good when we had a minister who was really explicit representatives of the import lobby and they didn't hide it. I remember '93. In the year when this political option came, it was given the mandate of citizens to manage the City of Osijek, so when some people said very ugly that IPK Osijek should, in fact, be a mastodont, that it should simply be eliminated, destroy it. So I said listen up there for 11,000 people. If someone votes for you 70% then you should believe that 70% of those people who work because there are no other people that the IPK in Osijek also voted for us, because by the logic that everything can be bought out there is really cheaper then we would have to, then there is not a single factory in Croatia that would work by that logic. There's always this thing called, I'm not saying it has to be state protectionism, but it's every country that takes care of itself in some way has to protect its production and right where it can be placed, and I don't think it's easier to make agricultural products, but not just agricultural products are placed right in the Croatian south, in Dalmatia, in Istria, in Dubrovnik, that there's really no reason to eat, that in the morning we're milking pasture or butter that's not produced in Croatia. It's really what you say at least we can do to ourselves or I don't know if we already have the soap factory to get in all the hotels, to wash our hands and faces with the soaps that are produced here in us. But I say, unfortunately, obviously, that always these partial, particular interests or that we say this principle of personal benefit to prevail, and then we have this situation that really, really, I have to go there at all with these proposals that are actually a reaction to this very fact that we here clearly have to create that I say, this political consensus and this political will that certainly exists that we have to strengthen it and try to really change this non-existent state. Here I am looking at my colleague Tadic, we were in Brussels about a few years ago as part of the Croatian delegation, and then the same time you talk to representatives of the European Union, it's now done by a colleague, Jandrokovic, it's all going very well, but when I don't know you come to the issue of olives, the question of wine, oil, and then all of a sudden you have problems because then you clearly enter into a particular sphere of interest and then you see it as Europe knows how to protect itself. But I'm saying, I also think that in this, especially in these advances, this space that we are about to rightly respond in this European complexity with our own preparation and our own willingness to defend our interests, and I think I am convinced that this is possible and therefore I say this by agreement at home. Here we heard, say the Spanish have begun, a colleague I think Pecek was talking about began to produce and shoes and certainly they probably see in it some interest precisely because they don't want to stay this way as I do that I am really from head to heel dressed in something that is not there, with none to say an object which is not produced in the Republic of Croatia. Here's the HSLS club will support it, too. I think it's good to create a positive ambience that finally about these things that concern realisation and what started really very early somewhere in October 1990, and also it wasn't the result of saying that we started from the beginning, but it's precisely this idea of a truly complementary connection between these different regions that it makes sense and that in that we can each, every region, every space can find its own interest and then we're not just talking about tourism, but it's really showing that someone in the explanation wrote as a great multiplier exactly and some other activities. Here's so much from the HSLS club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61113	Thank you. HSP club, respected representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61114	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the council, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State. About this law proposed by colleagues from the HSS Club, there is an unusually large consensus in the Croatian Parliament, so the only thing that matters is the position of the Croatian government. Given this rarely seen agreement in the Croatian Parliament, the first thing I have to ask myself publicly on behalf of the club of HSP representatives is why all this did not happen, say five years ago in 2001, when Željko Pecek was headed by the Ministry of crafts, small and medium enterprises, Mr Pankretic, at the head of the Ministry of Agriculture and when in the coalition government HSS was able to provoke the adoption of this law. An unsolved mystery remains why this was not done five years ago, namely, which the interrelationships within the ruling coalition ruled that such a law could not be passed. We can look for reasons for this reason by the Croatian Government, and these reasons are precisely a conclusion that the adoption of such a law would be contrary to the WTO Charter, so all are trade organisations, i.e. the Agreement and association with the European Union, because now, this discriminates against import goods in relation to domestic products. By the way, in 2001, the Croatian Parliament unanimously adopted a proposal for the conclusion of the HSP to abolish customs duties on all imported motor vehicles. The conclusion was never realised because, at the time of the former government, Minister Fizulic, as Minister of Economy, referred the Croatian Parliament to the government's position that the government simply adopted our own conclusion adopted unanimously, cannot and does not want to realise. So in this situation we have received an answer that is truly fantastic and I have to quote it here, which is that as a country facing European integration, Croatia is obliged to actually respect its trade relations with the countries of the European Union and although it itself does not have its own automotive production, it is expected that it will not violate these trade relations with the fact that it introduces production completely free from countries outside the European Union. So I'm just saying this to illustrate a really sad fact, which is that the Charter of the WTO and the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in the Croatian Government and the Croatian Parliament are often used as an excuse for all and all, i.e. often used in a way that is contrary to its own national economic interests. I do not believe that HSS colleagues are ready to question the Charter of the WTO or the Agreement on Free Trade with the WTO because the note of the HSS Bene Club voted for an agreement with the WTO until the HSP Club did. I do not believe that colleagues from the HSS Club are ready to break the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, as the HSS Club voted in favour of the agreement, and the HSP Club did not. So in this proposal that they make here, it definitely doesn't go against those two agreements because otherwise they wouldn't give it, I don't doubt their good intentions. But to be exact. Which is what the WTO charter is asking of us. The Charter requires that customs goods should not be discriminated against in front of import or vice versa. So the WTO charter asks us not to impose customs duties or hidden customs duties in the form of excise duties that would lead to the discrimination of import goods. This law that HSS colleagues offer does not speak of customs. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement in the Trade Section reiterates the same requirements as the WTO Charter because it was also written on that trail, so it again speaks of that we must not import any customs duties which this law does not work either. But the Stabilisation and Association Agreement also addresses the issue of public procurement, i.e. the issue of subsidies in the Croatian economy. So on the issue of subsidies, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is very clear. He therefore says that Croatia is obliged to align its subsidies within four years, its national support map with the European Commission's support map. This law also does not speak of public support or of Croatia's need to grant grants in some other way. However, this is only about giving short-term interest-free loans and lending contracted production. Therefore, this law does not speak of any subsidy being granted or customs duties being imposed for foreign products but short-term loans are granted, and as far as I know, neither the WTO Charter nor the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is opposed. Which is why I find it really unclear why the Croatian government went with such arguments against this law proposed by colleagues from the HSS club. So the method you've chosen is good in our court, and it can't be found against because it really doesn't come out of the strict frameworks imposed by the SAA and I believe it would be good and applied to other branches of the economy. Speaking of tourism, I have to mention here a model of how hotels were built in France in the '70s. Practically anyone could have become a hotelier in France if he had agreed to have the French state find him a bank that would accredit it, that the French state would find him a designer, find him a place where he could build a hotel, find him a contractor and find him a supplier of equipment. Everyone had to be a hotel man. Why did France do all this together? So that French equipment suppliers are involved in the construction of this hotel and that the hotel that is there uses French food and drink and employs French labour and that the new hoteler as a new capitalist pays the French state income tax, i.e. profit tax and sales tax. The purpose of tourism in every country is to make it possible to place domestic products, i.e. the country's economy through tourism places its products. The French made that clear 30 years ago. We do, however, come up with a truly absurd situation, which is that as tourism traffic grows, as the number of arrivals of guests increases and food and drink imports in the season and we year after year record imports indeed. Three years ago, it was about $800 million, this year we're sure to exceed a billion and 200 million, and a man is actually wondering whose tourism we're actually developing. We are actually developing the economy of the countries from which we import food. If so, if the increased tourist inflow here only contributes to increased imports then we are actually developing the economy of Hungary, the Czech Republic and the other countries from which we import food, not to mention the neighbouring eastern countries. Such a law therefore has its own clear motivation and has a good foothold in international documents and does not go beyond them. We will therefore support this Bill of Law, we expect the Government to be favored by this Law and to draw up an adequate argument in the second reading that will go in favour of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the Charter of the VTO instead of drawing up quasi arguments against this Act from these agreements and from these documents. I would like to mention another detail mentioned by one of my predecessors, which is the question of inciting indigenous food, or indigenous dishes. So we have recently ratified the Convention on the Protection of Intangible Heritage here. One of the kinds of immaterial heritage in each country is definitely indigenous to meals. When a man comes to Japan completely clear that he has to try sushi, when he comes to Spain he has to try paella, in Italy he has to try homemade pizza or pasta. What does Croatian tourism offer to a stranger in Croatia? He offers him kewapes, offers him a burek, offers him some mixed meat, offers him the craziest combinations the Croatian menu does not know. 20 years ago, I was surprised when in one restaurant on one likable island, they offered tourists roasted mackerel with the dwarves, simply because they had no other contribution, but the dwarve was. So, I want to tell you all to adopt a law like this doesn't aliminate us from the nonsense of our caterers to offer completely catastrophic combinations on the menu, and let's just say completely forget about the Dalmatian pasticada, the Slavonic tower, the Istrian... With truffles, on Zagorje strudels, on Ogulinic acid cabbage and on the rest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A few years ago, even in the previous assembly of fellow Members Damir Cain and I were determined to write the Law on the Protection of Croatian Autochthonic Foods just to encourage guests to offer more of these, although we did not write the law, we noticed that the public reaction was very good. I would therefore ask colleagues from the HSS club not to bother writing amendments to this proposal to install in the second reading of the law all the clauses that are encouraged and the possibility of accreditation of those restaurants that offer indigenous Croatian cuisine. So thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61115	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Željko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61116	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, it's incorrect that this law was supposed to talk about customs because we're not saying anything against import goods. Through the law, we want to support Croatian tourism goods. The model in which we want to support it to be clear to all is the model of Croatian shipbuilding, if we can support the construction of Croatian ships according to the same model, we can also support food and equipment for Croatian tourism, I suppose if there are no obstacles for ships not even for food, that there are no obstacles in the world trade organisation, nor in the rules of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61117	Thank you. Now we're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61118	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We're in a bit of an absurd situation. The Croatian Peasant Party, the Croatian Peasant Party's Representatives Club, has seen a problem well. It also offers a solution to that problem. All parties, all clubs in Parliament support the proposal, the government rejects it. Let's see what the problem is first. There's been a problem for a long time. It's not even hard to spot him. Our Slavonic peasant produces a cool, makes ham, produces a homemade product, and has a plasma problem. On the other hand, when tourists come to the Adriatic, foreign food, a Spanish prosciutto who knows what quality, Hungarian tower and such nonsense is sold. Tonci Tadic was well-founded to explain that the government's objection to the fact that this legal proposal will oppose the WTO and the SAA is unfounded, that he has no reason to ask in this argument the government and there is no point in repeating that argument because it is here spoken. So the government doesn't accept this, but worse than that, it doesn't offer a solution. The government is not offering us a solution to the problem that is known to exist. And the government itself admits this problem, but not that he doesn't want to solve it, not that he can't solve it, maybe he doesn't know, he doesn't want to solve it. Usually, the government says in its arguments when something, in its opinions, when something rejects it says the government is up to something, it'll make the government better and smarter, so there's no point in being tortured by MPs. But this time it's even gone. The government, however, says it brings a programme each year that encourages domestic production for tourism placements. Yeah, but then the government doesn't do that well. Because if the government were to bring in a program and this program was to work, then this law would be unnecessary. What kind of argument is that? The government's bringing in the program, but the program, however, has a problem with that program. And now, instead of being ashamed of bringing in a program that doesn't produce any result, the government points out that as an argument why it doesn't accept a law that would solve the problem, and the government obviously can't solve it. I find that kind of illogical thinking of the government a little strange. Then the government further says domestic products have difficulty competing with imports primarily because of their inconsistencies in quality. What would mean inconsistencies in quality I tried to come up with but I can't figure it out. Quality inconsistency would mean that quality is oscillating, so some product is now good, so it's bad, and then it's a little bit better again. That would possibly mean inconsistencies in quality. If the government was to say that domestic products are unquality, then it would have to be contradicted because market research shows that our people are happy to buy domestic products precisely because they think they are of quality. They have improved significantly in recent years the quality of domestic goods production. We have an absurd situation that today we have garbage from foreign products on the market. It wasn't like that once. Once we lived in a joint state, the Yugoslav product was not at the level of the quality of the foreign product and people were happy, so they went out to Trieste and I don't know in Hungary, not in Hungary, but in Trieste to the West they went to buy a foreign product because it was more quality. And today there's no need for that. The domestic product is better quality. The government continues to say, as well as because of the modest possibilities of adding new values to the goods. What is that supposed to mean, a modest opportunity to add new values? A new value, a value added tax is paid. And that would mean adding new values I don't know. Therefore, this argument of the government is first incorrect, then incomprehensible. The government further says the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development can, without justification in the law, develop its own lending programme with all the necessary details. Well, he can, of course he can, so we all know he can. But this is not what the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development is doing. Well, that's the problem with him not working. So be careful if the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development does so, and if any colleagues from the HSS write this bill. Well, you wouldn't, so there wouldn't be a problem. Therefore, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development should in some way force it to do so. And it's the subject of this law. And now that argument doesn't need a law that will solve an area that isn't solved and nothing in that area works that government logic is completely unclear and it would be better if the government hadn't given any opinion, it would have turned out smarter. What's left for us to do here now? The government does not accept it, the big question is whether it will pass in parliament. But it doesn't solve it, we can see it's not working out. What do we have left? Put your shoulders down, say ha, what, they don't have our peasants to sell to, we're gonna sell to the tourism side, what can we do now, I guess that's gonna take years, but we're still not gonna accept the solutions offered here. I am a little encouraged by this support of all clubs and those clubs who, as a rule, vote in favour of government proposals and who follow the instructions of government opinion and who reject then those proposals that oppose it, encouraged me to support all clubs here and hope that this law, along with all its shortcomings, will have a law of inadequacy, is not well written, so that they do not think that until the second reading if it passes there is not much. There's a lot of work on this bill, but he's in intensive care. Why is he good at intensity? Well, because he's trying to solve the problem, and he's sure as hell gonna solve it. Therefore, the motionary's call. Namely, first of all, the invitation to all clubs on Friday to vote in spite of the government's negative opinion, to allow the proposer to prepare a quality law until the second reading and to help our people on tourism. We keep saying on islands it's impossible to keep people, people leaving us islands, our islands are empty. So how do we keep them? So we have to help them stay there. And how are we going to help them? So help them to work, to work, to work, to work in tourism. There's their nature of activity. But how will it work if they have no incentive to open tourist facilities. Well, that's the best way to help them. We have no other way. Except we invite them to stay there, but that sucks, it won't help much. Therefore, I hope that this law will pass in the first reading and that by the second reading we will receive a better proposal that we will all unanimously vote on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61119	Thank you. Replica, a respected representative of Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61120	Dear fellow Stazic, this is exactly the government's approach to an opposition proposal that is typical. Therefore, the government does not recognise the possibility that an opposition club or one opposition representative can solve an acute problem by its legal solution at all. You can, as an opposition representative, suggest I don't know which solution you don't know which problems and after a long study, after entering matter, after the whole argument has been made. No, none of it's worth it. As a rule, it's going to be completely solved in 60, 90, 380 days. And there's a basic problem. So unfunctioning by me is one relationship, a normal relationship between the government and the Parliament. Yeah, it's always so that we're clear. The same was true when the former coalition was in power before the elections. We've been taking out a whole series of laws, too. Rarely when one is adopted until a normal relationship is established between the Government and the Parliament by which the Parliament is the one who considers politics and makes laws, things will be as they are now. Clubs will work hard, MPs will point to problems, but unfortunately we will continue to observe the exact same sequence of events in the economy year after year and in other aspects of public life waiting for the government to react. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61121	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61122	I agree with everything that you've said with respect to Tonci Tadic, except for one finding that the same situation was with the last government. Why? Just one proposal for HSP. Just one HSP proposal was accepted and was made together with the former government. I don't remember what the legal proposal is... That's right, the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and he made me in cooperation with the opposition club which was quite certainly a good way, good indication let's proceed that way, yes, and... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61123	It was an exception that confirmed the rule. Dear Representative Željko Pavlic. He's gone. He's losing his word. The Honorable Representative, Zvonimir Sabati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61124	I'm here. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Of course I'm a little surprised when my colleague Pavlic was here a little while ago. So let me say a few words about this bill, even though to be honest, I can't accept it either, but to be honest or to understand the proposal of the Committee on Economy to reject this bill. It certainly wouldn't be a good message to the domestic producers if they didn't, by any chance, understand how the MPs were protecting the so-called. import lobby. The clubs did not object to this bill and I think it may take a little more effort to soften and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I don't see why this should be a problem if this bill doesn't go to another reading. The more I am convinced that the Croatian Parliament will also support this bill's proposal to go to another reading. Let me say that this bill is not addressed to the parliamentary procedure solely because of the promotion of production for... tourism is already much wider. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For the State, this should be a strategic interest. We're talking about a demographic policy that's being solved between us and that. And this creates the basis for rural development, i.e. even development of Croatia. A program that's a little bit of work, and everybody swears it's a strategic program for all of us. We are really talking about a ghastly struggle for the survival of the village, and perhaps this law can begin to create the basis for the development of the village. I come from Varazdin County, densely populated with a large number of debossed small properties. From the county which has similar characteristics as the neighbouring county, Međimurska, Krapina-Zagorska, Koprivnica-Krisjevacka. In fact, from this very large, densely populated region where in villages in the last 30 years the number of inhabitants has been cut more than half. And the rest is an overly old-age peasant household. However, these are areas where vegetables and fruits are growing more and more under very difficult and uncertain conditions. Where state support is still too small and the operational plan for vegetable development has not yet seen the light of day, and according to me available information, it is finished. The main thing of the programme is to ensure the promotion of domestic production and to ensure placement. Of course, it is expected most for tourism purposes, and this is exactly what is proposed by this bill. I would like to stress that this bill wants to curb excessive and unnecessary imports, but also to prevent further strengthening of the import trade lobby that are often privileged in a series of competitions because they can provide both quantities and give the lowest possible prices and no one talks about quality. We all know that Croatia is God-given for organic agricultural production for the development of the food-processing industry, we are talking about healthy food. Isn't it strange that most major annual purchases in the process of preparing the competition have already eliminated an individual or a family peasant economy or even cooperatives in advance. This is where great wholesalers reign, and they always have priority in hotel procurement, as well as in large domestic consumers, military and police. So smaller agricultural producers and cooperatives can't get into these tourist systems or big state consumers. With a few words, I'll look back on the area of vegetable development. It must definitely be one of the national priorities for the northwestern Croatia region, i.e. I am talking about regionalising Croatian agricultural policy. This type of work-intense production also requires storage facilities, refrigerators, packages, irrigation, but also significant credit funds to raise plastics and greenhouses. It is necessary to create faith in the safety of peasants, or in such a banking system that will accept such facilities as well as land as a guarantee for a part of the loan. It is a good thing that it is finally included in the support system as a direct incentive and vegetables although these direct incentives are only a small share of the total funding and expensive labour intensive production. It is not the same to subsidise half a hectares of vegetable production in terms of income and costs as well as ten hectares of wartime production. But we really don't want to talk about it today because there's another topic on our agenda. But it is not, of course, enough to encourage production for tourism placement. It is necessary to design a complete programme that includes promotion, production, placement, collection and marketing plan for domestic production. And in order to revive the example for the tourism sector, they must primarily give major state systems, public institutions. Even though the European Union is reluctant to advertise "Let's Buy Croatia!" This is exactly how we can prove it by example. If you look at total vegetable production, then there are as much as 30% of needs that can be easily advertised by increased production, and for which farmers need long-term warranty. From now on, our quality is known only to ensure a placement and safe payment and our peasants will produce not only for our needs but also for export. Let this bill be understood and accepted as a legal basis. And certain sublaws need to establish protective mechanisms for actual domestic producers and to prevent possible mechanics. As far as the total tourist offer is concerned, "sea", under quotes, tourism is the most attractive and state policy has been determined to help with various methods and ways of the tourist offer. But the same treatment does not have continental tourism. And that is why it is no wonder that we have relatively few of these tourist offers and few of these facilities that could be in the overall offer of tourism within continental tourism. Here, in this humble contribution, I would just once again like to say that all the speakers who have now been on behalf of the clubs or the individual debate that has begun, according to all, supports this bill and it is up to us, as the Croatian Parliament, to support it and that, in the second reading, we could really have one quality basis to protect domestic production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61125	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61126	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Well, there are rare occasions when we talk about agricultural production directly, but here it is possible to discuss the subject a little bit wider. The proposal of the HSS Club on the proposal of the Law on the Encouragement of Domestic Production for Tourism is part of a clear focus on agricultural production and the source of food on our table. And for the needs of tourists, direct export. I remember, there was already a speech when we went outside to buy an supposedly better and nicer product because it was packed in better packaging in questionable quality. I can say this openly now, because I was near the Hungarian border and a participant of these our... Because if we evened out with quality, then we had to pay for it as much as we did. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There was nothing cheaper out there. It was just a little bit better packed, it was attached, and it was sold to us as something. I'm thinking the same way right now. We, in tourism under the cover of cheap products, sell good packed goods to others, and ours, probably quality, simply has no pass because it is not finished, packaged and ultimately placed. That's why I say one production to organize from seed, land to finished products in the barn, packaging, processing, it's impossible to do business for one of any agricultural producer, and in the end it's a processing industry for someone else. That's why in this chain we need a mediator, now I speak for the agricultural producers, we need a participant to follow it, and that's why this bill of law is one of the possibilities for us to put all these stones together in one mosaic, so that we don't all deal with everything. Namely, if I proceed now to Mr Sabati from Varazdin County, Međimurje County a day, but daily travel vans a ton, two to 5 tonnes either to Zagreb or to any time in the season below for the Adriatic, to the destination where they produced the product already packed it as a semi-product or finished product and now place it directly to the markets or have already agreed destinations. It's a pioneering business where they're extremely good at dealing with individuals where they're trying to impose a pace, and this bill is actually a copy of this private initiative they're already doing where they're making guarantees for the loans they've raised, not the ones without a loan, they're not the ones with no responsibility to guarantee that the loan will be returned to their production. However, these are private affairs, individuals who have succeeded in doing so. If we're going to raise production, if we're serious about domestic production, then the system has to prefunction. Otherwise someone will now say I'm bad, self-government agreements that once signed just one name I say, I don't think it will be, with the Blue Lagoon, and I don't know "Podravka" or "PIC" of any other Vrbovac, about ham so I don't know what's to be given. Well, they were extremely well placed on every agricultural producer who even had a pig in his operation, a hundred pigs produced because they knew where it would end up. Bude ends up on the table of those consumables that came to Croatia or are domestic tourists. It's sold so the field product is practically on the table there. That's why I wouldn't pay much attention to why the government would take responsibility for it or not, which is why we don't take responsibility for it. I, to our consciousness, transfer everything as parliamentary representatives, participants to the events that take place in the country. The village will part. The village is collapsing because there's been a separation of small family households at this time should already be goods, somehow in the skeleton for entering Europe. And if we don't help this part of the kid that's still unorganized, who can't handle the agricultural competition outside, where we can unite them in this way to make for a known buyer under known conditions products. We've made a big step. That's where the goods producers will be included, absolutely. Because they're the first to do it, but we need a cooperative. I don't know what his name is. In Italy, it's cooperative, they're different there somewhere. Ours was like, let's call it an association I don't know what, not to associate with the cooperatives of those who were. But even now, cooperative production is possible. And that capital that is so needed is most important in this segment. But we don't have any capital, our ideas fail, and without it, we don't have to do anything. So this is, this law is laid down with the basis for capital to be as cheap as possible to guarantee agricultural production and to ultimately ensure that this goods are placed on the market. So I appeal, I say again to us as parliamentary representatives, let us support this idea independently now whether it is this way of thinking or not, because my assumption is that we are on a good track and that the Government has no reason not to support us, not to engage in this legislative initiative, clearly to the Government that we are all finally satisfied. Because if our village is poor, believe me, it's not nice to live in the city either. I'm a participant every weekend of these so-called journeys. Citizens who have their old men in the country, where they go home quickly, when they return to Zagreb slowly because the trunk is full. So the villages must still and constantly be that base from which they were going, where they were coming back and where they were coming into and now satisfied people and going away, coming all together that our pleasure was mutual. And finally, the product that's being produced in the country I have to convince you, regardless of who thinks it is, it's very good quality because our delicacies that now our people are throwing at us at any home, and I have to say that I've had the good fortune that here as a green flower with a golden sign I had from the entire Croatian tourist staff headed by Mr. Bulic, from all the counties, that when they're from one rural tourism I have to advertise it, Jakopović, they ate domestic delicacies, that they were too satisfied even though we were only beginning to get a certificate, that they had everything from the edge of our own, which is now happily advertised, it's in our house, in fact our grandmothers created it and we don't need to go far. So here I am begging you for one solidarity outside the village, because this would be a great step and great support for the village and the peasant. In this second segment of processing equipment, it's absolutely for discussion, and those who deal with it, I think they're just going to take the initiative and not against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61127	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61128	I want to replicate my colleague Kolara in the part where she talks about incentives, about two kinds of incentives. I think that here is where the incentives that need to go towards consumption and tourism and incentives that should go towards fostering infrastructure, unification and buying agricultural products. I think we missed the opportunity to install these other incentives in 2001, 2002, when we passed the Encouragement Act, when it was warned that it was necessary to define and encourage the development of quality infrastructure, which is exactly co-operation, cooperatives, whatever they call them, which are necessary to unite products and offer them to the market, and then only come these other incentives, incentives for consumption, or incentives to the customer who will take over these quantities of goods organised. Because even if I am now, I am in favour of encouraging final consumption through tourism, but I fear that when such a customer appears on the market that he will not have to buy from anyone again, because that production is fragmented, we do not have the quality to say the uniform goods that are to be offered, and that is what the cooperatives, i.e. the buyers who homogenized the goods and offered it to the end consumer, have just done so. You were just talking about "Podravka" who was the one who was partnering with Poreč, etc. But she bought the product on the ground, she packed the product nicely, which you also talked about, and she could only offer it as such to tourism. At this very moment, we're going to have to talk about two kinds of incentives, one whether they're going to go to agriculture or trade incentives and this one in tourism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61129	Thank you. Replication response, esteemed representative Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61130	Thank you very much. Well, I agree in principle in this debate of yours. However, there is a need to clarify and say. We actually, these are not incentives this is organized production for tourism placement in a way I speak, where we don't prefer it, where we don't give any benefits except that under clear conditions all those involved in the production of contracts, we talk about contracts, so organized production must use funds per year to, absolutely. I'm a participant when the operation worked extremely well. She's coming back, she's coming back now. However, it returns on a commercial basis with commercial loans. It's an expensive process of production. This is where legal entities are entrusted in such a way that we have to give a mortgage guarantee. Well, I think you're all part of it. This type of production is simply behind us, we need to find a model of how not to borrow but also in charge of such legal persons that they have air in production simply, that production can be expanded and that you finally said as well as I, these small ones to be united. For example, there's now 10 to 12,000 in one turn to load pigs. You know how many of them are getting loaded now? A thousand. Because we don't have a production organizer. It means instead of having 22, 23 thousand tolls a year, we have 2, 2.5 grand. But that's the way all of Croatia is. Here's the secretary of state there, a million and 200, a million 300 thousand, we don't have two, three as much as we could produce, and for comparison one Denmark that's as big as we are, there's 22 million tolls. For God's sake, there's something wrong, and there's everything in this way organized, all the way down to the point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61131	Thank you. Another replica, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61132	You tell your colleague Kolar that this legislative proposal of yours should be supported, so in that sense you call on everyone here to vote this law by stating how you said it, no matter how the government thinks. I think that on behalf of Parliament's dignity, the more the clubs and individual representatives support this proposal, the more the two reasons why the government will then start to think, and the second thing I think is that it's a relief and the government's work itself that we're not talking about Parliament's dignity. If he's convinced of something, which is why you don't vote, then don't vote on such a proposal. Well, this isn't a proposal against the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This is a legal proposal that you propose in the interest of citizens, specifically peasants, thereby facilitating the work of the government, and there are other problems and issues that the government will deal with. As counterpart Stazic said, if the government already has its own magic formula that doesn't mean perfectly anything, which isn't just a flaw of this government. They used it all, and it needs to be done eventually and at least when you don't think, under that one sylogism, once the government is able to do it more fully. As long as the government doesn't come together and unreal, then it might, I think, be this way if the government means a partial solution. Because there's a burning problem here that I don't see any reason why you're refusing to do this. Let the Parliament show its dignity once. If that's what we're all for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61133	Replication response, esteemed representative Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61134	Thank you very much. Well, dear colleagues, I actually think that we contribute to strengthening the government's integrity in this way and that's where we agree absolutely on it and I don't think the government's opinion is contrary to us. Maybe at this point some other problems cause the government, I wouldn't be getting into it right now. But if we came to the moment that we were close to one thought, that we detected the problem, that we were trying to solve it for mutual satisfaction. I personally believe he doesn't commit us as Parliamentarians to think right now like this or something, and tomorrow might be another. I think all of us together actually contribute by our own thinking to the ceasefire. This is really a fire in the country right now and that if we help in one segment not to stir it up, we've done a big thing. Well, just thinking about whether someone likes it now or not, I personally think that every legislative proposal that goes in that sense only makes us all stronger in the belief that we contribute, and that is why we are there, the dignity of both the Parliament and the Government and all of Croatia. After all, we're not working against the state. We're working for the state together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61135	And the next replica, the esteemed representative of Walter Poirot.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61136	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Kolar, the HSS club sent practically the same proposal for a law to encourage domestic production for tourism placement on 22 September 2004. So, a year and a half later. What do you think has matured the opinion that the placement of domestic production in tourism is being achieved or that we are running out of time to join the European Union or something else? Since we have seen that virtually all the clubs of MPs today support this proposal and this way of thinking. And of course, along with some supplements to guide him to another reading. That's all I care about. Did the time mature today, a year and a half later, or is it something else?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61137	Replication response, esteemed representative Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61138	So if I may say my humble opinion, I think this is the last minute. I'm warning us all together and distracting. All that has been regulated by any law, now, before, becomes the subject of a debate on future and consensus with the European Union. All those areas that are not regulated in any way have no discussion but are being taken over by their legislation. And this is one modest contribution from the HSS Club to strengthen our position so that we can all figure out what position we are in together and ultimately make it better for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61139	Thank you. Dear representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61140	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. So the aim of this Law is to create a legal framework for the effective integration of domestic production potentials with the biggest consumer in Croatia, which is the tourist market. Unfortunately for lack of understanding or political exclusion, however, this law has not been passed much earlier. If it is judged in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it should not be brought now. The government, however, says that appreciating the importance of tourism as a market for the overall economy supports the idea of encouraging domestic production for tourism placement, but does not support this proposal. If we look at all the days of government opinion on opposition laws almost always support the idea, but not legislative projects. At the beginning of the term of office, at least she gave a negative opinion, after a while she prescribed opposition proposals herself and put them in the parliamentary procedure as her own. And that was a shift because relations were regulated regardless of whose proposal, but now we have neither the government's proposal nor allow the parliamentary majority to pass the law on the club's proposal and we actually tap into the place, consoling that the government supports the idea. From the very support of the idea, there's nothing. Therefore, it would be good to consider the need and benefits of individual legal projects and to bring them in regardless of the government's position. The government says every year it brings a programme that encourages domestic production for tourism placements, but according to indicators of the implementation of the programme, there is nothing. It is obvious that it considers normal increases in imports of food products but does not normally consider domestic producers which have a underlying problem with the market. They say it is no problem to produce if you know what to produce and at what prices. Today everything and everything is imported, mostly suspicious quality. Let's just remember the products with genetically modified organisms, frozen pork that expired on the deadline of use, and speculation about a thousand tons of beef and juniper waiting on the border for an import permit, and then we have cow madness that the British laboratory disproves. When the manufacturer doesn't have a market, it's normal for production to decrease. It is recalled that today in Croatia, for its own purposes, only 5 products are produced in sufficient quantities. Our potentials are far greater and we don't use them. The objective of state policy cannot and must not be to reduce the physical volume of production, especially before entering the European Union. The Minister of Agriculture speaks of the need to increase production, while at the same time leaving the manufacturer's measures without a market and thus forcing them to reduce production. Not only leave them without the market but reduce incentives, not pay off, the process of rounding up family economies has been halted. How do you ask how the Government is going to introduce our producers, most of whom are peasants in the European Union? The philosophy of this Law comes from the natural potentials that Croatia has. This is unpolluted agricultural land, and yet very fertile, which, with certain investments, can give a abundant and competitive breed at the cost. This breed should be processed and finalised in the domestic food industry and eventually placed on the domestic tourist market. According to the data available in our tourism, food products worth $2 billion are absorbed annually. This amount itself is actually saying everything, but unfortunately this great market is reserved for someone else and therefore we did not use it for the benefit of the state and its citizens, we did not take advantage of all the opportunities that come from tourism. The high share of foreign products significantly reduce the effects of tourism because the value of imported goods does not benefit from its own production potential and therefore, of course, enjoys a successful tourist season, but we can neither look at it nor expect the messaging until it withdraws the need to increase domestic production. The increase in production leads to new employment and new employment, and then citizens actually directly feel the success of state policy. But we don't, and we often wonder who's running the policy, the people who are responsible to the citizens or any import lobby that will do anything for their own benefit, and they'll make cows crazy if necessary. The power of money is strong and here we see reasons why there is no political will to bring consumers and producers together. Of course this connecting of two of Croatia's biggest potentials is not easy or simple. The tourist market is very demanding and it has not adapted to domestic production. This adjustment is necessary, but therefore economic policy measures are needed to stimulate and further stimulate domestic entrepreneurs in the longer term, especially producers to adapt their production programmes to the needs of the tourism market. The domestic economy must be able to produce what is necessary for the tourism market, however, this product must be competitive with import products at a cost and at the same time we propose this Law, which encourages domestic production by applying it, and entrepreneurs in particular to adapt their production programmes to the needs of the tourism market and thus allow... the effects of this market on the development of domestic production. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is interesting that the government supports the idea of incentives, but suggests that the law be rejected. That view would be understandable if the government had a better proposal for a solution to the problem, but it was gone. He says the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development conducted a public tender for the construction of a Croatian product for Croatian tourism, which accepted the offer of the Institute for Tourism in Zagreb. The Institute ended its work on a project with written material to be presented publicly with concrete measures to create further possible increases in the share of domestic products for the needs of Croatian tourism. Time goes by, and there's a complete nightmare in the area. As tourism continues to be considered, it will continue to focus on imports, and this will further reduce the economic effects of tourism, and domestic agricultural potentials will remain unused. So, even what nature has given us, we don't know how to fertilize and put into general good. Furthermore, the government says the law does not comply with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Union. That's not true. The members of the European Union are Greece and Spain and they have such a model of protection of domestic production. How, one day, citizens in the referendum will accept the entry into the European Union, if the government has convinced them at all times that the laws with unpopular measures are passed at the request of the European Union, that the laws that are useful for citizens but do not apply to us because this does not allow economic conditions to also take place at the request of the European Union and that we must not ultimately protect domestic production that should create new jobs because this requires us to have the European Union. This is what the citizens of the Republic of Croatia cannot understand, and all the efforts of the political elite will be in vain because the citizens in the referendum will say no. Furthermore, the government says that the bill does not show how much funding should be allocated for loans and loans and if the Habor has funds for this type of financing of the tourist season, it can also draw up its own lending programme without law. The Hubor has accepted the proposed single-different lending models in law, tourist companies have no obligation to supply themselves with domestic products, and while this is the case, we will continue to be welcomed at the entrance to tourist facilities by furniture, import carpets, imported bed sheets, towels, soaps and shampoos all the way to the toilet paper is imported goods, on the table of import food which is probably running out of use. By contrast, domestic production will not reach the desired level, and for years it will fight to protect fundamental human rights, which is the right to work. For these reasons, I appeal and suggest to all my colleagues that this proposal of the law be actually adopted in the first reading and that politics should not be dealt with on such a useful project.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61141	Thank you. Honorable representative Walter Poropat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61142	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. In considering this Proposal for a Law on the Encouragement of Domestic Tourism Production, which is practically the same as the proposal submitted by HSS in September 2004, I believe that one of the priorities to be focused on now is to have sufficient capacity in agriculture especially for the internal market, but also for the product for the European Union market, so the product is competitive as a agricultural product for the European Union market. It's a shame it wasn't discussed like this five or more years ago today, as this proposal is being discussed. It is already known that after Croatia's entry into the European Union, no one will be able to increase production capacity, i.e. it is merely figuratively said, e.g. One vineyard won't be able to plant a single vine of wine anymore or one oliver won't be able to plant any more olives, etc. I don't want to pick it up. Among others and the above, they justify, in every respect, an even wider and faster education of the population and incentives to producers, especially in agriculture which we are sure is one of the most prominent areas in the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union, which we could also be sure of in the light of the examples of the latest enlargement of the European Union as new members. Incentive of domestic production for tourism placements, I believe that we absolutely need to support and that such promotion is of strategic importance for the Republic of Croatia. First of all, there are agricultural and food products that total the tourist value of the social gross product is about 20%. Of course, it is very important to extend the tourist season with new and better quality offers that will attract tourists to get the farthest distance in Istria County. In the rural part of Istria, huge efforts are being made to open new family farms registered for agrotourism but also in manufacturing activities in the first place in the production of organic products and protected typical indigenous products sold in tourist sites, at agrotourism points, at wine roads sites etc. Incentives for the production of protected typical indigenous products must be intended. I will give an example of a protected Istrian prosciutto or Slavonic tower. In order to produce the best quality of Istrian prosciutto or Slavonski kulen, it is necessary to grow 200 kilograms of heavy pig, meaning that for the final product we need a time period of two years and the Government of the Republic of Croatia would have to bring to the proposal by the Minister of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy and Minister of Economy, work and entrepreneurship at the latest, at the latest by July of the current year, a programme of promotion of production for tourism for the next tourist year with the project for the next three years. We are familiar with the fact that the import component in the content of the tourist offer is not being reduced but is increasing from year to year, which is also going to be an example this year, which is totally inadmissible and what should finally be put to the end. Such a situation is the result of a lack of real strategy and economic policy, in this case a lack of long-term stimulation of domestic products either agricultural and food products or other products for tourism placement. Here I must highlight a positive example of the presentation of agricultural and food products of Vukovar-Srijem County in Istria, Poreč, which was organised by Istria County, which was one of the examples of how the agricultural and food products of a county are presented to the tourist market of Istria, from which more domestic products will be placed in tourism this season and, of course, for every commendation. The purpose of promoting domestic production for tourism placement and in particular agricultural products enables the exploitation of available agricultural resources, agricultural land, stable and processing facilities, valorisation of organic and typical indigenous products, the placement of domestic products through tourism and agrotourism as a source product, the increase of income and economic stability and family farms, the retention of young people in the countryside and the natural reduction of imports and the suspension of the trade import lobby, and the improvement of balance of payments as a whole. In my presentation, I gave a special emphasis on encouraging domestic agricultural production in tourism because, in my opinion, agricultural production is one of the priorities for the Republic of Croatia, but we also need to set up and encourage other types of domestic production for tourism placement. I personally support this approach for the placement of domestic production products in tourism, and I support that we refer this bill to a second reading by when the harmonisation of this bill will take place with those agreements which the Republic of Croatia is a signator, such as the Agreement with the World Trade Organisation. Furthermore, to bring the law in line does not go against what is very important in the competition and at the same time remain on the trail "Let's Buy Croatian". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61143	Thank you. Dear Representative Bozidar Pankretic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61144	I give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61145	He's giving up. Thank you very much. Dear Representative Luka Roic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61146	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs! It is nice to be in the Parliament when an agreement is almost reached on the proposal of a law whether it is supported as a law in the final form or as an initiative or as a proposal that is ready or mature to be passed as a final law in the shortest time. In the discussion I had listened carefully to from the very beginning, there were not too many questions I had heard on committees that were about like this. What is a domestic product, do we prefer and encourage domestic production at the expense of imports, did HABOR as an institution that could borrow financial and such arrangements do so so far, and was that enough? I'll answer. She could have done it but she didn't have to. But I think it is precisely necessary to legally define and regulate these relationships in order to make them more effective than ever. In fact, if such a possibility existed, the results we have are completely unsatisfactory. And if the results are unsatisfactory then there is something new to be done to improve the situation in this economic activity. There is no choir that the biggest problem actually is every small agricultural and every other producer who has decided to engage in a very risky and uncertain outcome because his product can regularly find no way to the final market and valorisation on the market in the right way and for years actually create him very big problems and headaches and ultimately most often give up everything because his financial efficiency is very small. And if the state decides that through such programmes, such laws encourage such activities then it does not discriminate on anyone but I would say equalises some conditions with those who are large, who have all the opportunities to follow their production from the beginning to the end and in fact the greatest aid to any less organised or disorganised farmer is the greatest need for financial support for at least a year, because the cycles of its production are largely such and it is necessary that it does not consider financing its production in the way it has done so so far by pawning or publishing activities in order to actually come up with expensive loans that would in time completely eliminate it from the competition. The story of David and Goliath is well - known, but that story is just a Bible story of a real economy. She doesn't stand a chance. David is David, and Goliath is always Goliath. And that's why we all have to do everything we can to even up and train the manufacturer's layer to be competitive on its own market, and that's primarily tourism activity. Because it's the easiest place to actually find a way to actually tell the export that's on its own ground. And that's something that I don't think anyone can mind, and I saw that in the discussions that were held today in the Croatian Parliament there are no ones who strongly opposed this idea. I hope that, first of all, I want to personally thank everyone who thinks this way and I want to encourage everyone to get even more active in finding the best solutions in order for this law to be finally defined. HSS, I can put it plainly he doesn't want any authority over this law. This is not the privilege of any club or HSS or anyone. We simply want this Law to pass in this Croatian House for the benefit of all those concerned. This is what we really want to hear in public and call on all those to contribute in the second reading to all the professional, all the other proposals that will help make this law the way it is accepted. Initially, it was said to be contrary to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. We heard today it's not like that. There was talk of opposition from the WTO. We could also hear that this is not fully justified and that in fact this is the way of support where it is actually financially supported by an entity in the process of production that, on financial grounds, it is financially facilitated by its path from production to consumption. That this cycle is completely closed because it is the only way he has a chance to step up and better quality get on the tourist market and make his profit and his existence on the market. At least what will result from this law is, in fact, winning is primarily a more quality domestic product that is definitely confirmed on that market. It is definitely increasing employment which is a big, big problem for the Croatian economy. Finally, the balance of payments deficit is reduced, imports are reduced and exports are increased. The tourist offer of indigenous high quality domestic products is enriched and the manufacturer can plan its activities in the long term, plan its development and stability of its production. This is doubtless what results from a law like this which will be adopted, and certainly that tourism is one specific branch in which the host country actually appears as a host and who certainly wants to offer in each offer what is indigenous, which is domestic, which is most valuable, which is the highest quality. Which will best promote and legitimise the host himself as one who appreciates values and who invests in its own values. This is the purpose of every household and tourism as well as branches that want to actually increase and restore all those products and all those crafts that have been abandoned or which have not received valorisation on the market. In one word of the bill of this kind, I hope that, with a correction and a proposal of all those who can professionally complement its shortcomings, I hope that it will be unanimously adopted in this Croatian House, which will again, as Col. Stazic said in his previous term, be the precedent for the adoption of a law that the opposition has offered, to be precedentd in this session of the Parliament. Where one law of the opposition party will be adopted, the bill of law and with a note that it is certainly a law that helps all those involved in the process of tourism and production, and above all all all Croatian citizens and not any political parties. In that name, I call upon you to give your voice to this bill and to do it in a second reading in a way that will be acceptable to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61147	Thank you. Honorable representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61148	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. At the very beginning, I'd like to say one fact. That there is no general agreement nor was it heard here in the Croatian Parliament today on the subject of this bill. On behalf of the Club, Mr Krešimir Cosic expressed an absolute reserve, an absolute reserve in view of the proposal that is ahead of us, and the other thing is that the debate itself, the initiative when it comes to agricultural production, when it comes to tourism, has a great meaning for the overall economy of Croatia and I as an initiative, as an idea I welcome this debate. The aim is certainly to place this bill as well as the government's measures domestic product in the tourist sector. However, we need to know that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and that the departments responsible have created a National Programme for Encouragement of Entrepreneurship, that the Ministry of Agriculture as a competent Ministry of Agricultural Production has given a number of subsidies and incentives measures one major block to agricultural production and I believe that this proposal for a law has already been consummated by existing legislation and existing measures by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I also believe that the concept itself when it comes to the very proposal for a law that raises the question of liquidity or lending of agricultural production and production in general as a major problem when it comes to the Croatian economy, which is absolutely not true. The problems of the Croatian economy are also of other nature among other things, which is one of the segments important, but I believe that the problem of liquidity has also been overcome over the past few years. The law is that if we look at Articles 3, Article 7, Article 10, it is absolutely inconclusive. There is de facto everything and refers to the entire area of the Republic of Croatia. From the inn in Slavonia to a restaurant, a representative restaurant in Zagreb and a tavern in Vis. I think the law itself is his message would be next. He's complicated so that he'd be inconclusive and in my opinion, in my humble opinion, with the maximum effort of all MPs de facto that we can't even get quality law. But I will repeat again, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the competent ministries and have already worked out this issue and various mechanisms when it comes to legislative regulation, and, above all, by measures, this issue has been resolved by encouraging measures. On the question of zero rates when it comes to interest for one year, a one-year loan and long-term loans 2% de facto are already being settled through the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Because we know, I can speak for the Split-Dalmatia County that Split-Dalmatia County, as well as municipalities and cities subsidize interest and thus de facto we already come to interest of 1st and 2%, respectively. This proposal on the other hand of the law is imposed as one roof law, as a roof law. And he de facto enters, he concerns agriculture, construction, IT, textile production, so I believe that the de facto claim of the promoter is too much, too demanding, and that de facto he can't fit in ten or fifteen and not even in a hundred articles all fit what we would like to achieve by one such law. The Dalmatian prosciutto was mentioned today. Here you see, I'll tell you the following, Dalmatian prosciutto as a product with a certificate doesn't exist at all, it doesn't exist at all. And there's like a tourist brand, for God's sake, when it comes to gastronomy. It doesn't exist, there's no repeating it again. These days in Sinj is organized a fair of prosciutto producers from all over Croatia, mainly from the region of Dalmatia organised by the Centre for Encouragement of Entrepreneurship. What will that accomplish? The Ministry of Agriculture, the county and the city of Sinj are patrons. On the one hand, it wants to define a unique technology of production and that Dalmatian prosciutto finally gets its certificate that we can place it not only as a gastronomic product, a specific gastronomic product during the tourist season, but also in exports from one side. On the other hand, it wants to provide a unique raw material base, which means connecting Slavonia and on the other hand of the Dalmatian Zagora where there is a certain tradition in production not exactly God knows how strong it is, in pig production. I'll mention vineyarding, fishing. We all know that the incentives of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry are important and that we need to be realistic and say that they are both fishermen, as well as those of people who are engaged in olive growing, vineyarding absolutely satisfied with the measures proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and who are still in force. To conclude, the debate on tourism as an inevitable economic branch is welcome. This bill of law is by me a declarative nature. It is good to discuss, change opinions, and we need to be realistic because the results that the applicant wants to achieve are results within the long term. But not with this law, but with a series of economic measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61149	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61150	Thank you very much. You're telling a colleague that this is in some kind of roof law. Well, yeah, it's roof law if we figure it out so it's one roof that needs to be prevented from raining. And the house is sneezing. And that's exactly the kind of roof law you need. To stop the house, to stop the rain from destroying everything in that house. You declare this law unnecessary, because it's all settled. But give it to me that it's all settled explain to a Slavonic peasant who can't sell his tower there in Dalmatia. Why don't you explain it to those who live on the islands so that under this law he can deal with tourism more easily? And now you're telling him it's all unnecessarily unnecessarily, because he's got it all together. Be careful, if he had all this together then he'd live much better, then he wouldn't need such legal suggestions. You say the debate comes in handy. Eh, listen, let's not play nob birds, stick our heads in the sand, debates come in handy. This debate doesn't help anyone if we don't change the situation. She's a waste of time. None, none of these tourist workers who live off that tourism, none of our peasants will live better than our debate. They will only live better if this law is passed and if they receive money under that law, it encourages something. So I can work better and make more income. And you're saying in the end that the law of a declarative nature. On the contrary, the law is very specific, and this whole debate of yours, together with the government's opinion, is a declarative nature.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61151	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61152	Okay, Mr. Train, I don't know if you were listening to me, but mostly you didn't understand me. When I was talking about roof law, I know in economic terms what it means, and you mention houses, roofs, bricks, I have no idea what, and on the subject of Slavonian peasants when it comes to fishermen, I believe that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is within the limits of possibilities, the overall possibility of financial when it comes to the state budget that the government has found an agreement and that the situation in that direction is going better. I don't think it's this, I'm talking about the law as if it's a declarative nature. However, since you would talk about both boats and fishermen and about... de facto and this fossil now that I've heard from you remain within the limits of the already known. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61153	Dear Representative Zeljko Ledinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61154	Dear Mr. President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, allow a few words about the proposal of this law that we are discussing here today, which is called the Law on the Encouragement of Domestic Production for Tourism Plating. Well, when we talk about tourism, then I have to say that tourism can place a large number of domestic products that are not just agricultural products, that are so many others and that many domestic entities can participate in, and contribute to enriching and expanding the tourist offer on our Adriatic. And the problems that are now present are that there is one shortage of products of wide production and consumption sold directly to tourists through trade, catering facilities and others and there is not enough wide range of reproductive materials that can be used today in our tourism. There is also no whole range of measures that could help economic policies that would encourage and long-term stimulate domestic entrepreneurs so that they can place their production programmes on the tourist market. What are those programs? Today it is mainly about agricultural products that should be placed, but I would remind you that there is a whole range of other industries that could place their products if this law were to be voted on on the tourist market. First of all, I think of the wood industry with which I am very connected in my business activity and I have to say here from the data we received last year, that, let's say, the import of furniture into the Republic of Croatia is 311.7 million US dollars, and that... Exporting the furniture $240 million was last year. [[You don't understand.]] Of these 311.7 million dollars of imports, this applies most to seats, means chairs, then kitchen furniture, from wood furniture for bedrooms and dining rooms and living rooms. These are the data that we and this imports are about 8% higher than it was a year ago and we can therefore conclude that one major part of the wood industry product is now imported and placed on our market. I will also give an example of a famous large hotel company near Sibenik which was four years ago... complete his hotels and today he orders furniture and changes that furniture from ours, buys at our factory "Mundos" I can say in Varazdin, they could give him a choice, has a chance to talk to the director. [[You don't understand.]] What does that tell us? That four years ago we bought a large number of furniture from imports of various suspicious qualities and now we have to change it and have found that domestic furniture can be safely satisfied by quality and can be placed in our hotels. Why am I saying that? Because it turns out here that it's just talking about some kind of, just agricultural products, and for example, the wood industry can say that it's a whole series of other industrial products that can be placed in tourism, in the tourism industry, and therefore it's necessary to find one way and the modus that both this wood industry and its products sell to get money for them and right away, so that it can plan systematically its own production, do for the next time, and not import everything that is on the market today has other countries, there is also a way that through some return through tourist visits, their imports and their furniture are practically being imported and placed with us. If we were to respect and pass this law, then we would allow our wood industry, which is still the largest export branch today, and which has an increase in exports, the truth is little, but every year more and more, we could also make it possible for the larger finalisation of the wood industry, and we would allow it to pay regularly to the Croatian forests, today there is a debt somewhere near 400 million kuna of wood industry to the Croatian forests, clearly because there are not enough crafts and this branch recently has these difficulties precisely because interest rates are expensive and their products are burdened with a large number of import products that often do not have any basic quality certificates and as such is the hotel chain that I mentioned, which after here three and a half years practically has to change furniture. Furthermore, when we talk about this bill, then we must say that we and our legislative alignment plan, that in 2005, we will pass the Law on fostering domestic production for tourism as part of a plan for harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union, that this has not happened, that we are informed in the meantime that some other projects that have not yet been presented to us and that we expect them to be presented here at the Parliament soon, and the basic philosophy of how to encourage domestic production is very simple, and it comes down to this law, means the proposal of certain ministries to work on a framework programme of promotion of production that determines the frameworks, needs of hotel and other catering companies, investment needs of these companies and tourism areas and criteria and the form of credit incentives. Credit incentives consist of short-term, unambiguous loans for the purchase of goods in the preparation of the tourist season for one year and loans for the contracted production for the purpose, with a longer deadline and with interest of 2% per year. On the basis of this programme, incentives are granted to tourism companies and domestic producers who have concluded a long-term business and interest partnership and credit incentives should be approved by the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, with the prior opinion of the relevant ministries. I think the procedure itself is simple and clear, and it has already been applied in some countries of the European Union, and therefore we do not virtually come into any conflict with the European Union over further negotiations and reconciliation, and that this is why we can also secure it, and that part of the loan that happens within one year does not even affect the state budget, only that they may have to pay off a little sooner than some other priorities. And when we look at the necessary investments that take part in this year's preparation of the tourist season of nearly 6 billion kunas that these coins can make a significant contribution to obtaining, first of all, certain capacity of domestic production for the long term, to create certain brands in those parts where these brands do not have or do not have a sufficient amount of their products, and then some better perspective can be expected. Many branches are not part of the agricultural production itself, but all others who participate. I said at the beginning of the tourism economy can be a cornerstone of many productions within our country. That's why I think it's necessary to support this bill and miss it in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61155	Thank you. Replica, a respected representative of Ivana Sučec-Trakostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61156	I'm going to get involved in this debate very briefly, because I didn't sign up for the debate thinking there'd be fewer stories about this. So I am deeply in the view that Croatian producers should have the largest market share in the Croatian market first regardless of what they deal with from agricultural producers to final production, but this has shown that everyone from their point of view is looking at a certain agricultural wood industry. However, we must decide whether our tourism is a branch of exports or something entirely different. It is one thing to determine what a tourist market is. Because I agree that the tourist market can be defined in a way that, over a certain period of time, more activity takes place, but this Law, therefore, says that the whole of Croatia is practically a tourist market which is not well defined. There is therefore a need to change the definition of that market and we need to agree. So define what a domestic manufacturer and a domestic product is. Because it is certainly not the beer produced by a foreign producer in Croatia. So we need to be aware that we have several categories of production and it is very clear to say who can use the incentive or not. Because as much as the explanation says it's a neutral transaction, it's very neutral from an economic point of view. Speaking of opportunity costs, it doesn't matter whether you make a million kunas or make 50 or 100 thousand interest on that amount. So it's the cost of the state budget. I will not say that the Slovenians have told me for years when I sold them Croatian products "mom my factory". Therefore, Croats should not be legally but in other senses, therefore, and economic logic have the need to buy the first Croatian product that is equal to the imported product, and secondly, there are mechanisms for the state authorities to order the internal instructions of all those who buy money from the state budget to buy exclusively the Croatian product. Only when it's gone can it be bought imported. I don't see the need to pass a special law here. So, I support the meaning, but we need to be very careful if it goes into further reading of adoptions, so, this law, and precisely determine the categories of who can, who does not get it because there will be great abuses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61157	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Ledinsky.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61158	You see, I must say, Mr. President and Secretary of State, I'm surprised that a colleague of Ivana who worked at PIC for a long time and whose husband works in a well-known wood industry is so resonated that we don't know what the tourism market is today and that we can't place a part of the product through that tourist market. You see, today the investments of various companies are 3.2 billion in preparation for the tourist season, so, for that, the tourism market. Local self-government and administration 2 and a half billion kuna. The 129 million kuna tourist communities investing in the tourist market. And when you add it all together, it's data from our Ministry of the Sea, tourism and traffic that you probably have, too. Therefore, this tourism market today can provide, invest some of these funds in the supply of goods, and I wonder if, on this occasion, when that money, will it be bought only by our products? By applying this Act, we will stimulate the sale of our products from both Twin and Mundos and other companies in the wood industry. Also PIC and others, you know? And this is how you do when, today, we give money in preparation, we don't know where it ends. We also lend those foreign companies that sell all kinds of products to us. And that's what investments are all about. That we come into a position with our products, sell them on our market, and tourism, you've already said everyone in today's debate, is our export product. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61159	And a respected representative of Jagoda Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61160	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It has been an established practice, for many years, that the effects of tourist activity are most often expressed by the number of overnight stays and by the number of foreign and domestic guests who stayed in our country during the tourist season. These are indicators that can be used conveniently in terms of EPP in order to indicate the success of the tourist season through them. So most often said, the tourist season was extremely successful, so many nights were achieved, the number of foreign tourists increased by so many percent compared to last year, as well as domestic ones, etc. And after that, everyone's happy. A resolute minister, i.e. a resolute ministry, is satisfied with the Croatian Tourist Board, and should be satisfied with the Croatian public because these data promise that the state budget has also benefited significantly from the effects of the tourist season, and of course it promises citizens a better future. However, whether this is indeed the case, or whether the financial impact of the tourist season is really the way it stems from the number of nights. If they did a detailed analysis of how much the share of foreign products is in the total tourist product, and how much is the share of the domestic product, the final financial results will certainly not be as they could conclude on the basis of the indicators mentioned. The overall financial impact of our tourism is lower because the import component in the tourism service content is not reducing but is increasing from year to year, and the high share of foreign products significantly reduces the economic effects of tourism because it does not use its own production potential. We must treat tourism as an export economic branch that has great opportunities to unite and encourage other economic branches in the Republic of Croatia. The large tourist market allows the placement of different goods and services, and this potential is not nearly used as it should be. The number of entities participating in or contributing to enriching and expanding the tourist offer is small in relation to the needs and opportunities of different goods and services in the tourist market. As a result, we have a situation where our hotels and restaurants offer our guests imported food products, guests sleep on imported furniture, import sheets, etc., not to mention further. Such a situation is the consequences of multiple factors. First, an unadjusted structure of domestic production, the needs of designing a very complex and demanding tourist service. And secondly, this is due to the lack of different economic policy measures that would encourage and stimulate domestic entrepreneurs, especially producers, to adapt their production programmes to the needs of the tourism market. Croatia has a number of advantages that it has not been able to take advantage of so far. We have clean air, water for drinks of exceptional quality and quality, clean sea. Just to point out that, for example, the criteria of microbiological cleanliness, values for certain parameters are reduced even 10 times compared to some Mediterranean countries because Croatia can achieve such values. We have all the conditions and opportunities to produce healthy food. It is all part of the value and advantages that Croatia has and which are not used enough and placed on the market. These are also the basic reasons why it is proposed to adopt this Law, which aims to activate huge economic potentials and put into service tourism and tourism markets. In this way, imports would be reduced and the development and design of a new Croatian product based on domestic production would be stimulated, primarily by healthy original Croatian agricultural products, but not only by them. This Law proposes incentives from the field of credit policy for the benefit of domestic tourism placement products producers and the mechanism for achieving these incentives. The adoption of the proposed law will contribute to the resuscitation, modernisation and structural adaptation of domestic production in the first instance of agriculture and fisheries, then to the processing industry of the needs of the tourism market as set out in Article 1 of the proposed law. All the measures proposed by this Act, which is the subject of today's debate, will contribute to increasing the overall economic impact tourism has and will undoubtedly contribute to a better design of Croatia's tourism product and a better quality of the tourist offer that tourists will certainly know and that will be a reason to visit our country in much greater numbers than ever before. Therefore, I cannot accept the government's argument that such a law would be contrary to the VTO and the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Union because it discriminates on import goods in relation to domestic products. It seems to me that today we are in a situation where domestic goods are actually in Croatia, i.e. domestic products are discriminated against by import goods. For this reason, I personally believe that this Law should be supported and released into another reading in order to allow domestic producers and domestic products to find their place in the total tourist offer, i.e. the total tourist product of the Republic of Croatia, as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61161	Thank you. And final review on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61162	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here's after this debate which is yet you'll admit since it's one bill of law that's very important, and it comes from the opposition club past in one atmosphere, one environment that talks about two things. First, it is clear to everyone that this is a serious problem, that it is from the serious shortcomings that the Croatian economy has in common. Tourism has served here as the most complex example and as a possible market, much easier market than in Slovenia than in Hungary, rather than in England. It's one of the specificities of this debate. The other specificity of this debate is, however, evident that there are arguments that are simply on the side of all those who claim that it does not have to be as it is now or at least that it can be better and that we can make such a diagnosis in which we will create such preconditions and create such legal assumptions that will benefit us even when we negotiate with EU negotiators because only with legal solutions and legal form can we agree, seek exceptions or something else. And on the other hand, that only such logic can solve the problem, because I think we all agree on the shortcomings is impossible to overcome by confirming what led to them. We're now like the ground in front of a very risky intersection. Whether we will continue on the path that is unquestionable, not in these last two years, has led to the fact that the participation of foreign products in Croatia is inadmissible in total, that we have one defeated syndrome called as many nights on one side that is higher due to the balance of payments on the other side. Is that possible? It's possible. The greater the number of overnight stays in 2006, the greater the effect seen by the number of overnight stays on the left hand side, the greater the burden on the balance of payments, the greater the debt of both foreign and state and economy. We are in an almost incredible state that we do not know that the Croatian National Bank balances say this, all reports say, and I think that this situation that is seemingly bad can be very easily not in one year, but by opening up space for different thinking. Because what do we have left if we continue in this direction? Foreigners will buy us real estate, buy us hotels, take over our market, instead of our brands, they will develop their own. What do we have left after that? To be humble servants on our own deserted shores, and we will be called Croats. I don't think anyone wants to, and I don't think we have a lot of obstacles or differences because I absolutely allow that the bill that is definitely not in line with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement because it talks exclusively about lending, it doesn't deal with support, it doesn't deal with anything that would be discriminatoryly set against import goods. No, he's just saying you're providing credit. Do they cost credit at zero rate? Of course it costs. But now, today, yesterday, 5 years ago, if you will, during the coalition government as it is now giving zero-percent loans, it gives credits with one percent. So if it already gives, so is it fairer, is it more appropriate that we determine who it will give and what, that in the middle of that decision there are two resolute ministries in charge of it, one tourism, transport and development, another agriculture and the Ministry of Finance, and that they decide on the basis of the needs of this society in which to finance in the short term, means through the loans of the interest-free current year and how to long-term ask for elements to be created in Croatia for the development of those production capacities that we lack, which we can have in view of our resources. And that's all. How and in what way will instruments be developed, are these bad ones, can it be legally changed? So I believe that he can, I believe that he can and can be better set up and that a more meaningful way of communicating between those who need those funds can be found. Is it here when there was a question of who these interest-free loans were going to, to a tourist hotel or to a food producer? In my view, if this is a problem for the food manufacturer because it is more necessary for him to have a craftsmanship for his production, which would interfere with the hoteler who will receive quality goods. Nothing. He would not engage his assets because HABOR would bridge those funds, be paid in advance to the manufacturer, the manufacturer would instead of waiting for the money already has the money, supplying the hoteler with quality goods. The hotelier would pay for it in the ninth month, the HABOR would settle down and everyone would be happy. But what's more important than that? It won't save this manufacturer, but it will allow it to be reinforced on the market. His problem today is that he has to pay for trade funds I don't know from 5% to 7%. And they're asking for a mortgage on his house, on his father's house, on his grandmother's house, if he's a kid, etc. They simply lead him to his destruction. And that's the biggest problem. And that million kuna, someone says it's small. No, it's not a little bit. It's small when you have it. When you don't have much is a lot, and there are lots of small manufacturers to make it possible. Therefore, there are shortcomings, so there may be some discrepancies with the proceeds. I don't know that now. But I think that our fundamental goal is to change this negative trend, that in 2006 or 2010, maybe in 2006, we can no longer fix us in that sense, that by 2010, we make a plan and say that we will establish such relations in which domestic production in all sectors, I will now not be lobbyists or wood industry or metal or processing or this because they all participate in this. To increase our exposure to imports by 20%. She'll stay 30 percent, 15%. Let him stay. Well, competition must exist that way. But she can't be dominant in a national economy. Import goods or reproductive material cannot be dominant compared to domestic resources and domestic production. It's not allowed from any aspect. Therefore, the proposal of the HSS Club is not to have our signature under this law. It's not even a condition for him to be called this. Our demand and our condition is that we resolve this and that we can say that we have solved this together and that we have all made one step in this home, a step forward so that perhaps the president may not be remanded into the precedent that one law is passed because rather than simply being one democratic, civilizational and responsible step in the way it works without anyone falling hair from their heads. And I think we can all get a lot, and the public, and the dignity of this home, but first of all, I think we need to strengthen our negotiating position of our country and we need to create conditions for our domestic economy to deal with and to deal with all competitors. And finally, I would say the best strategy, and the best policy, and the best law is helpless without changing the overall climate, of course the social climate, but also the relationship that we have against tourism, versus the economy where, of course, legal bases are very important. However, these things will not change in a short time because the only system in which short-term profits, power and arrogance and these three categories of tables on the side of the import lobby do not constitute the purpose of action and work. It can lead to the country moving from the most unpleasant point at which it is destroyed or sold to foreigners. I think there's a third time, to stay on our own and make our own, strong and powerful economy, and I believe it's not too late for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61163	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a law to encourage domestic production for tourism placement. The proposer of the law is the Club of Representatives of the HSS. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a law on the promotion of domestic production for tourism placement proposed by the HSS Representatives Club referred to in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies is not accepted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 63 votes for, five abstentions, 18 against the proposed conclusion. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction, I am voting on the next conclusion. It is assessed as an acceptable initiative in the Proposal for a Law on the Promotion of Domestic Production for Tourism, and the following is presented to the Agency for the Protection of Market Competition, Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, the Ministry of Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and the Water Economy and the HBOR to give an opinion on how to implement this initiative in practice. Please, let's get on with it. Let's go vote. Score. 24 for, 10 abstentions, 47 against. He didn't get the necessary majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61166	Honored ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. President. This is the law which is now the second year in the application of the Law on the right to access information and that law and the entities applying that law are all public authorities. The bodies of public authorities established by the list of public authorities. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Supervisory Authority and the bodies that collect information and report on the right to access, the central state office is the information and we can say that it has been collected precisely within the deadline this year and have been processed approximately 4.499 of such requests which are the right to access to information, it has been rejected, the bodies have rejected 182 requests so far. When the structure looks at how and where citizens have submitted their requests for access to information, we will see that municipal and criminal courts dominate where even about a thousand and a half requests have been forwarded. After them come the bodies of municipalities, cities and counties with almost similar data of a thousand 350 somewhat and more requirements, only somewhere in the middle are central government bodies from the ministry, for example. with 259 requests and a state administration with just over 564 where the state inspectorate dominates. In addition to its supervisory function, the Central State Office carried out a resolution function in accordance with complaints from citizens at the time when the state authorities or public authorities failed to supply their information and, on such complaints of 32 complaints following intervention from the offices and inciting the body, all 29 such information was ultimately forwarded to the citizens. As early as 2004, we had no administrative practice, the practice of the administrative court, I apologize, in this area, we already have the practice of the administrative court today, so the administrative court adopted out of 82 cases, 4 adopted, and the others either refused or rejected. What could be said during the period between the two year period, in two years of application with a specific review of 2005, that progress has been made in that part, where the state bodies are practically in each state body is designated or the public authority, certain information officers are so that today we have over 70 public authorities that have information officers and that the public is familiar with it. The bodies have also issued catalogues of information, and most of the forms that almost all the forms used are also on the public authorities' websites. In this way, citizens have better insight and more accurate insight into what this body, which information can be obtained from the public authority. In addition, last year has also been marked with a very significant and often underrated moment of education of the public authority of information officials, related to the right to access information itself. Here the government's activity, or central state office, was quite strong through our so-called so-called state office. administrative academy or centre for the training of civil servants where we dominated with the Croatian Helsinki Committee this type of education and carried out. Is this the only reason that it certainly did not, that in 2004, there were 19 thousand and 600 requests and that this number of applications had now fallen significantly, but this way of education, how to put the public in the disposition of procedures in which the state administration and bodies... For the sake of it, he certainly made that approach better. [[You don't understand.]] Finally, it seems to us that there is still no need for more significant intervention in the Law on the right to access information and that, during this year and probably by summer, the Government will form one information on the application of this law and on possible and possible changes to the laws most in what should be done to citizens, and that means probably extending the circle of public authorities that will be, which will be able to enable citizens to access the information they have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61167	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and Political System, Mr Dragan Bosnjakovic, president of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61168	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament at the 52nd session held on 29 March 2006 discussed the report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2005 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 2 March 2006. The Committee discussed the report on the basis of the competences set out in Article 57. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In the debate, the Committee found that the report showed that there were fewer requests in 2005 for access to information compared to the previous year. In this connection, the Committee considers that the law gives rise to the right to access information to natural and legal persons through the openness and public action of the public authority. After the debate, the Committee unanimously proposed 7 votes to the Croatian Parliament and proposed to draw the next conclusion. The report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2005 is hereby adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61169	Thank you. The other board? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61170	Dear Mr. Vice President, Deputy Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday we discussed an important topic, corruption in Croatia. Today this report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information is being attached to this topic. Because the Law itself on the right to access information is one of the basics, one of the fundamental anti-corruption laws that has been passed during the former government between many laws and ratified conventions. Now we need to see how this law is implemented. The law on the right to access information is one of the important laws in terms of preventing and preventing corruption. Because he simply forces public authority to be open, to be transparent, to hide nothing. So she doesn't even think about being corrupt. And that is precisely the right to access information available by public authorities that is one of the fundamental human rights that was protected by the first international contracts, by our Constitution. This right today is seen everywhere in the world as one of the fundamental preconditions of democracy, i.e. the further democratisation of every society and creation, which is very important, which is perhaps only in the postpartums, in the first place, the creation of an active citizen who can then inform and measurely decide what is happening in his community in which he lives. So here we are somewhere in October 2003, and we passed the Law on the right to access information. Governments around the world are simply forced, forced to give more and more information to citizens, to give up the monopoly on information, realizing that this information does not belong to it, i.e. the authorities but that the information is citizens' property. So simple the government must function to be aware that everything it has, the information it comes to in its work, that it is not its privilege, its ownership, its product, its gain, but that they are the property of citizens because they exercise power on the basis of the trust given to them by citizens, and that is why they are responsible for these citizens. It's just that the law has been passed that almost all of our associations have gathered under one roof call and I call "the public has a right to know". All of us together represent the citizens here, but on our own and the citizens themselves, they want an open public authority. They just want the citizens to know what the government is doing and how and why it decides something. Therefore, he has the right to gain insight into all the official documents he needs without the necessary explanation. The relationship between authorities and citizens in this regard must be a relationship of trust. And in notifying the public authorities, notifying that secrecy must be an exception. We see what it turns into after this year, two days, right to access information. We will see this well from the Report of this which is substantiated to us and for the reasons why certain bodies of public authorities have rejected the demands. And then why am I this basic law on the right to access information when there is any body that can say, at its own discretion, business secret, official secret and refuse to give information. But about that a little later. I would like to stress this in particular on behalf of the SDP Club that open authorities are not some kind of kindness to which this authority wants to gain its popularity towards citizens, so here it wants to open up and inform its own citizens. It's her duty and it's her duty. It is so in all polite democratic societies where the government of course exists for the sake of citizens and not vice versa. Citizens pay taxes, give confidence to authorities in elections and in each body, the segment has the right to seek its responsible behaviour, i.e. to answer questions. Even when they're uncomfortable or at least seemingly uncomfortable for power. In this respect, there are also basic principles, which is the availability of information from itself and on the very initiative of the authorities. So, that the authorities are not waiting for her to be asked something, that she's talking about her own actions. It is her duty to inform citizens, and then, in particular, to give information to citizens. In that sense, of course, it is a legitimate restriction on the right to access information, but it must be very, very restrictive. So that the meaning of laws, international conventions, contracts, and neither our Constitution itself at all, and in my own words, of this Law on the right to access to information, has failed, or turned into an exception, rather than a rule. Of course, these clear deadlines are very important in the law, and then the protection of rights. Here we heard from the Committee Report that these requirements are less than last year, but that's the wrong assessment that there's everything working because there's less. It is one worrying data such as worrying information why fewer citizens are talking to USKOK. It's like they're losing their trust and they're drying up and there's no use talking to each other or a little bit of people falling into apathy. This is exactly what is contrary to the basic principle that also the law-based office must implement except these principles that I have given you, which is education for democracy. Therefore, it must be the government itself that creates a single mood in the public, animated, educated, and instructs citizens in the exercise of their fundamental human rights. You see, when some danger came, the old Romans said "new tangeri civilis sum", so "I'm not afraid of anything, I'm a Roman citizen", because they had a high awareness of citizenship, because they were citizens, not subjects. So this is the sense of democracy to create from citizens exactly the one who has the right to demand the power to serve him, not that he is subserviently serving the authorities, and in that sense the realization is also complete and the implementation of this Law to act stimulatingly on citizens, not vice versa. You see, in 28.9.2005, although this is not to be read from this report on the implementation of the Law on Access to Information for the period last year, so for 2005, in that third quarter last year, transparency of international Croatia has publicly announced that almost half of the authorities do not respect the Law on Access to Information, this has shown their research. It would not be good if, as yesterday, we took our hand in a metric, objective study of this internationally respected institution, but to worry about it and to correct what has to be corrected. Thus, the report says that of the 200 questions sent by the public authorities, among them of course the Government, that the answer was sent by 115 bodies, i.e. 56%. This was informed by Zorislav Antun Petrovic just on the occasion of the international day, citizens have the right to know where our representatives of the government are, and here are the representatives of the office that the deputy secretary of state spoke of in this office, which he had the honour of attending. That's where they could get acquainted with this particular worrying data. It further states in the report that the percentage was even lower last year. So the public inquiry of such one survey was only 49.6%, so for the past year 56%, so it was found that Croatia with last year's markedly non-transient evaluations this year went up to a poor passing grade, so better, but still very, very bad, but yet there was a stimulant that it wasn't as tragic as it was last year, but the thing probably worsened on their initiative. That's why all criticisms don't always have to be taken badly. Therefore, the conclusion is that Croatia still does not meet European standards in achieving the right to access information. The arrests are most salty to the ministries and as Mr. Deputy also reported to the courts, but it concerns the fact that the least information, i.e. the answer, came from the government itself, the central government, i.e. and the ministries themselves, because the government would now personally, and also through the ministries, be an example to all other public authorities. Here are both here and at this meeting and at this presentation and this research, but it is also evident in this report on the implementation of the Law on Access to Information where the case of journalist Jelena Berkovic, who, even after the decision of the Administrative Court, has not received a reply, the information requested by the Government, was her what is she doing whether the Office of Control. ... Not that it's not true, these are the presented data right there on that day of transparency of the international which were also attended by government officials. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And you know what's not true when you throw it out of the bench? It is not true that Mr. Prime Minister answered the question of our representative Stazic's question that he was convicted by the court because he was in error because, in the meantime, the court received an answer, and that was not the case, and the court condemned him and gave a deadline until the government, i.e. Body head, i.e. The prime minister must deliver a decision, but it was not done, but it was lied to the public that it was done, and it was only done for four days. The journalist also reported it because the government spokeswoman said that all these documents would please be found at the port. It is not a decent relationship that the government must communicate and that it is obliged to communicate with citizens. She received a response four days after the expiry of the given time limit, given the time limit, and was not fully responsible for it. If I think it's not rare to say and the fact that our citizens have addressed the Administrative Court with over 60 such lawsuits requires the Administrative Court. It's something that worries and essentially burdens one part of our fate distance completely unnecessary. I'm still asking you to keep you informed here that the situation is getting worse in this sense that even the parliamentary deputies are no longer getting an answer, i.e. they're getting an answer like it's working and you're asking Helen Keller until she's learned to communicate, even though she's been disabled, and that's not exactly the answer to the question she's asked. So I repeat twice the question of how many new people are employed then I get a response from the state administration in total, but not a concrete answer. There are also no answers to any parliamentary questions, such as how, how they are financed, and how our Hague risers are financed. Therefore, it is not good behavior. It's not good behavior that we see what the report is from, and that's that on unpleasant issues and very simple questions are not given answers but is given clauses, secret, official secret. I think we're going to have to settle this precisely with these coming laws that will solve this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61171	Thank you very much. We've got corrections. First is Mr. Representative Mario Zubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61172	Mr. Vice President, I must correct Mrs. Anticevic. The administrative court doesn't condemn anyone and she as a lawyer knows it well but she wants to find our prime minister guilty even when he's not guilty. And we've been hearing for several days that the Prime Minister is guilty of this and that, and secondly, it's inappropriate, it's really inappropriate to mention writer Helen Keller in this context. It's really inappropriate for Helen Keller to be mentioned here like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61173	Don't throw it away. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Anticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61174	Mr. Vice President, article 209 was violated because a colleague has abused this institute and re-produces an opinion, even distorts exactly what I said. I wasn't talking about guilt or criminal responsibility here, I was talking about a conviction and the administrative court ruled whether to judge a slave or to determine. They're also sore. And don't talk about what you don't know about.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61175	There was a reference to condemnation, but there's no telling who can convict. We still have a correction to the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Velimir Pleša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61176	Thank you very much. Well, Mrs. Anticevic said the administrative court convicted her. You didn't say. You are now in correction, or when you responded to a colleague of Zubovic, told a verdict but in your debate you said the Administrative Court has condemned it and it is incorrect. It's also incorrect and it's not fair to call all the time for two days that it's not decent and it shows, it's your quote, and it shows that the government is referring to the public and access to information and again mentioning the case of a journalist we've heard so much about. It would still be true, or I would believe that you are credible if you said that, on the basis of this same research, Mayor Milan Bandic had received eight requests he did not respond to, and he actually kept the status of a negative primate under that law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61177	The correction was either a conviction or a conviction. It can be considered a correction, and this other can't be considered a correction, but one part can do it for me. Now let's move on. It is the HDZ Club on behalf of which Mr. Representative Kruno Peronja will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61178	Mr. Vice President, Deputy Secretary of State! It has just been a report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2005 that has shown in a very bright way what the report should look like and that it serves us in the course of not only this debate but also in the course of the session of this Parliament. The most important point I would like to point out is that the law required reports delivered today, as reports by all public authorities on the implementation of the law for the previous year by 31 January have been submitted by the Office and submitted to the Government by 28 February for the previous year and the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to submit a report by 31 March at the latest on the implementation of the Law to the Croatian Parliament for adoption and to 31 March tomorrow. So, and this is an appropriate way of respecting the law of established deadlines in order to make all those in public authorities respect the deadlines prescribed by the law, so as not to pile up various regulations, we add the law to the law, but as this is exactly what the Central State Office did. Of course, the law is very young, it was passed at the end of 2003, but this law in the Republic of Croatia gave Croatia the right to access information of public importance or the availability of information owned, available or supervised by the authorities starting from the Croatian Parliament to municipalities and cities, the Croatian Government, the Constitutional Court, the President of the Republic. Of course, the aim of this law is to enable and ensure the right to access information to natural and legal persons, as well as to any person without discrimination against the person who so requests, through the openness of the public service of the public authority. What is very important and should often be repeated is the principle of public, free access to information, information prescribed by the law that all information owned or supervised by public authorities must be made available to interested authorities for access to information. During yesterday, we talked about electronic information owned by the tax administration, which is being edited by the cadastre, the garland. So, from a warm home, we will be able to get information and control what public authorities or other competent authorities are doing and how they spend budget money, how our Constitution protects rights. However, not only at the request of an individual authorising officer is the duty and by actively publishing information that an individual body of public authority does so on a regular basis. Of course, the statistics for 2005 are immeasurable and accurate because according to the report exactly as indicated here, the office received a total of 4000 499 requests for access to information during 2005. A total of 4000 484 have been solved, almost completely solved. The rest have been unsettled for 15 demands. 4299 requests accepted. 182 has been denied. 3 applications have been rejected and 7 applications have been granted. Very precise, clear and subject to any kind of control. Compared to the previous year 2004, the decline of the requirements received for the exercise of the right to access information is recorded. And this is precisely thanks to the clear conclusion that the data on the number of requests received for access to information is primarily due to the fact that many of the authorisation holders were able to do so in a way that they were able to do so in advance, because in the reports provided, the official reports allowed them not to ask for such information because they had received them in advance. For example, the Croatian Parliament received 20 requests for the right to access information and they were all resolved within the deadline provided for by law. And that's confirmation that this Reverend and the High House is doing exactly as the law has brought it. The Office of the President of the Republic has not received any requests. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia has received 4 requests for access to information. The request was submitted by the Croatian Helsinki Committee for Human Rights. The outcome of the resolution has not been delivered to this office. The Constitutional Court was also required to provide such information with a report so that it would be complete. The Croatian government has received 4 requests for the right to access information and all have been resolved within the legal deadline. This should make us especially happy and encouraging to finally move with a common rhythm of what all the developed economic, legal and parliamentary world is doing. The anti-intelligence agency, the Intelligence Agency and the ministries that received the 259 requests have been fully resolved. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think that the Central State Administrations who have also received certain requests have been accepted almost entirely and resolved. We do not need to be fooled here, because those bodies of local, local self-government and regional, or county, cities and municipalities, and they should work even more and more quickly and respond because it often happens that certain departments do not publish their decisions even on council matters and that we should work there to ensure that this law is implemented and that it is implemented in a permanent manner at all times as a guarantee to citizens that everything they ask for is done and that they should conclude themselves how it is done. Of course, the High Court of Commerce, the High Court of Justice, all courts have dealt with absolutely as the law provides, which strengthens us in the belief that the courts and the judiciary are the safeguards for the protection of the rights of all without discrimination. Of course, what I would like to point out in particular is that the activity of this Office is not only the sum of all reports from all relevant bodies but also to enable and exercise the right to access information to natural and legal persons through the openness of the public and the activities of the public authority. But that the Centre for Professional Training and Training of Servants during 2005, that seminar was held, that just in cooperation with the Croatian Helsinki Committee on Human Rights, further activities are being carried out because the permanent training and education of all officials and state-owned residents must be a permanent task for all of us. What is still to be said is that the conclusion of the Law on the right to access information can be assessed relatively well because its provisions provide for easy and rapid access to information and official documents. However, it should also be pointed out that although the international day is September 28th, citizens have the right to know that citizens still do not know enough about this law that must be of the utmost interest to them. Therefore, for good and thorough implementation of this law in practice as it would like to take a little time and patience, and this debate will also make a great contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61179	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative, Zvonimir Sabati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61180	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here is a report on the implementation of the Law on Access to Information for 2005 and, to be honest, I have tried to prepare myself for this debate to take out some of the most basic data that is relevant to this report at all. Which is regulated and legally written. But it is also necessary to stress that I do not know which times the law stipulates that public authorities are obliged to provide access to information not only on the individual request of the authorising officer but also by actively publishing information on their own initiative. The authorisation holder may request access to information by oral, oral or written request. If submitted orally via a telephone or other telecommunications device, an official note shall be drawn up, and the public authority shall not make a specific solution to the acceptance of the request. It is quite convenient to ask yourself whether we actually have some kind of control over how many such oral requests were not registered and which, unfortunately, the authorities who sought availability or request information did not know who to address. Because they didn't want to. Or they shouldn't have, yes. Of course, we look at this question differently here because the people who have had the opportunity to participate in the executive government are absolutely certain and the interpretation of this law does not look in the same way as those who have not had the opportunity to participate in the executive government. So I'm going to say that this report isn't entirely complete. We do not have any information as to whether all municipalities, cities and counties have finally made decisions where and which information is available as well as persons in charge of providing such information. Why does it matter? Perhaps the number of protections would be far greater if the citizens in total were to get better acquainted with their rights. I am not sure how important it is to implement the Law on the Rights of Information, the Law on the right to access information is given by representatives of municipalities, cities, counties, and certain state organisations. Is there any information whether all meetings of municipal and city councils are held in accordance with the laws, whether they are all legal, whether the principles of democracy are respected, what the behaviour of these councilors is, and at the end of the day and their other associates? And how do we know if the citizens have any insight into what is being discussed at these sessions and if all the information is available to them? If the acts of these bodies are published in some official messenger or on God's website, we all know that the use of this very global Internet network is not available to everyone, either by resources or by knowledge or by interest. The official messenger is only available to a few people from each municipality. Of course, there are, above all, councilmen and those who subscribe, a small number. And an even smaller percentage of those who have access to the official messenger are smaller in the city. Council meetings or the Headship Assembly are generally public, but information to the public through the media cannot satisfy the average informed citizen. Local authorities rarely hold meetings of headships, and conclusions from these sessions are exclusively the right of members of the headship or only of a single political party. However, the fundamental question is, if we look at from the local level, who is the responsible person in the eyes of law enforcement, for interpreting regulations, for the good or bad laws that the Croatian Parliament adopts? As a rule, it's the municipal chief. And the municipal chief is the thunderstorm behind the storm and the winds and the rain and the thunders that are referred to him in terms of questions. He is the main culprit for bad laws, although he did not participate in the process of passing those laws. And he's not even authorized to control the conduct. Just like that, under quotes "groms" are good or bad messengers how to get any information in the local environments. It would be no good if now the guilt or credit for the implementation of the Law on the right to access information was reduced to a local level. Let's just try to analyze a little bit how well the public's information is, or whether it's well known in the public enough, that right of access to information. And even less where all the information can be obtained. Far better known is the attitude of a particular public authority, local or higher levels towards citizens seeking information from public authorities leaders. Does the leader have or doesn't have time for such individuals? This is exactly how positive or negative action is created towards the public of work, but also at the same time by strengthening or shutting down the desire for availability of information. It is in no way good to identify interest or non-interest in information and availability or inaccessibility to information. In the end, it is not good to see everything through the Government of the Republic of Croatia whether it is transparent enough, whether the public is familiar with all the decisions or proposals of the law or the way the government works. We turn to ourselves a little bit, here at the Croatian Assembly. How much of the Croatian Parliament informs the public about its work? We can say we have a direct television broadcast, but let's just remember how much. Whether in this very short time everyone can track what is happening here in the Croatian Parliament and whether they can follow or receive information as much as who and how they represent the interests of a particular group or region or environment. Let's draw our own conclusions. When we are finally talking about this report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information, it is I would say the expensive data that we have all gathered here and I believe that this report will not in this way give the court whether the law or law enforcement is good enough or not. However, the fact that interest in this year is less, based on the number of requests for access to information compared to the previous year, we can take everything together. I would not say that it is solely the merit of information, that it is solely due to a growing degree of information, i.e. citizens' information through a variety of other ways. I'd say there's less and less interest. It's up to all of us here to increase that perception or that interest in public information or the overall interest in information. Here, so, in addition to this observation that I initially made on behalf of the HSS Club that we do not have enough information on this report, this specifically refers to local and regional self-government, but also to all state organisations whether they have or do not have the necessary decisions. Then I can say that the report is only partially complete. Here, on behalf of the HSS Club, we will plead at the session itself when they vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61181	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is President Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61182	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Yesterday I was at a corruption debate, yesterday I called for an ally of Transparency International. I'm gonna do it again. Why? Transparency International deals with the supervision of the implementation of human and civil rights in the Republic of Croatia. And what Transparency International says on September 28th, 2005. He says: "Transparency International Croatia is particularly unhappy with the non-compliance with the Law on the right to access information.", said the president of the organisation, Zorislav Antun Petrovic, at yesterday's press conference. He presented devastating information on state authorities' up-to-dateness when it comes to citizens' or journalists' answers. During August and September of this year, which is 2005, meaning the year to which this report relates, transparens referred about 200 issues to different public authorities. It's fragrant, but it's true. This organization received a total of only 115 feedbacks. This report is called the 2005 report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information. But that's unfortunately not true. Why not? Because it's missing. It lists all sorts of cases that are completely uninteresting and boring that don't tell anyone anything. But interestingly, there is no case of journalist Jelena Berkovic, neither the description nor the outcome nor the course of the event itself. Here before preparing for this debate I came to an assistant, which you are an assistant...... Deputy. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let me ask you where you have Berkovic in this, so you told me there's no one at the bench, and why it would be in there. ... Okay, you'll explain. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And what about Berkovic, what Jelena Berkovic did. It sought for 2003 and 2004, indicators of how much work was being done, hence the report on the work of the government's Internal Affairs Office for 2003 and 2004, and this report would show that 18 reports were made during the coalition government and only one during the two-year current term of office of the government, and that a million kuna is spent on the office's budget annually. Well then, the government normally did not send Berkovic such a report, because it would now show that her internal control office is not working and that the public would now be informed that the internal control office is not working and spends a million kunas a year and within two years draws up a report. In two years, one report. So that's his report cost two million kunas. Well, then Mrs. Berkovic sued the court and won the dispute. Namely, the Administrative Court ordered the prime minister to deliver the report. The prime minister said he broke the law because he didn't deliver the report, so let the prime minister choose to submit the report. Then I asked the prime minister in the current class, and why you didn't deliver the report to Berkovic. And the prime minister said very well that you asked me that, because it's incorrect that I didn't when I did. And Berkovic's day on Radio 101 says the prime minister is not telling the truth, he is lying in the Parliament, no report has been delivered to me. That's how the prime minister works. Now, if the Violent Procedure Act had been applied, the prime minister should have some kind of fine for it. He was not sued by Berkovic, so the punishment was lagging behind. So much for the Prime Minister's responsibility. Because cutting off information is a violation and the intended fine is 5 thousand to 10 thousand kuna for the responsible person in the public authority's body, so for the prime minister. See at all when in one country a journalist has to run, he has to press charges against the government to get information from the government then it's embarrassing. Then it shows the state of us and the respect of this law. The President of the Administrative Court, Mladen Turkalj, argues that after the law came into force in November 2003, the Administrative Court received 60 citizens' lawsuits against various state institutions that denied them information. The court dismissed 16 lawsuits because they were premature, and out of the four lawsuits brought by the two were positively resolved for the prosecutor for silence by the administration. Both positively resolved lawsuits were filed against the finance minister, who, as well as the prime minister in the Berkovic case, was ordered to deliver the documents requested within 30 days. Did any of you fellow MPs read this report for 2005? Is there one letter here? There isn't. There's some bullshit about how the NN citizens were looking for completely irrelevant data, and then they got these irrelevant data and they delivered it, and so the state administration is doing great because there's NN citizens who are delivering all kinds of non-essential information. About the fact that the Minister of Finance, too, has been ordered by the Administrative Court to deliver documents and told him that he is violating this law, in a report submitted to the Croatian Assembly, Mr. Deputy, which controls the government and your office, does not say anything here. So I ask you how dare you? As you dare to the Croatian Parliament and you who are watching, I don't know who threw it, but don't, and you control the Croatian government if you don't know or should be doing it and the state office. And you should be offended that you got a report that doesn't have information that interests you, and you should ask the deputy here why you're doing it, you're the first one who should ask him how you dare. So this is a hairstyle, one fake, one false report, there are no important things. But then maybe we'll do this. Now I'm going to ask you a question as a citizen, and I'm going to send you a letter to the State Administration Office because you're in charge of overseeing this law. How many citizens have filed a lawsuit, how many lawsuits have been settled against Minister Shuker, and why is that not in this report? So by the law of the right to information, you'll answer that. Perhaps in the next report, you will mention that your representative asked you to answer that question. But I don't have any illusions about it, because I'm an example. He sent a request to Ivica Mladneu, director of the tax administration, to provide me with the basis of this law with a solution to his tax administration, which he sent to Croatian Radio Television on which HRT states that he has paid that VAT on tax revenue. He never, ever delivered it to me as a representative or as a citizen. Not even as a representative. I told the Prime Minister in my current class, something you wrote down, not after that. Well, I know why he didn't deliver, so we all know that. Because then it would be clear that this is his solution against the law as we all know it's against the law. It would also be seen that it was abolished against the law because the prime minister said "put it away" instead of the Ministry of Finance as a second-degree competent authority making a solution. You'd see it didn't work out that way, but the prime minister made a decision. So he didn't deliver it to me, and that's why he won't deliver it to me. But if he didn't deliver it to me and he won't deliver it to me, Mr. Deputy has to write in your report to the Croatian Parliament. Otherwise, this report is completely unnecessary. If it's fake and incomplete. What's he gonna do? We're wasting time, we're wasting our time discussing something that isn't really about us because there's no relevant data in it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61183	It does not say in the Rules of Procedure anything about any representative being able to even act as an investigative judge so that you are within the Rules of Procedure. Before I give here the 5-ori looking for a replica, the correcting of an incorrect quote, a representative of the government, Mr. Piculjan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61184	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here is a reference to these allegations and to Mr. Honorable Representative Stazic that he did not describe in this report the complaint to the Administrative Court because of the government's failure, unfortunately incorrectly. On page 15 under the Administrative Court from A to Z, from the application, from non-compliance at the request until the Court of Justice's ruling everything writes nicely. There's no hairstyle in that part, and there's absolutely no hairstyle. 4 out of 82 lawsuits, not 60 how many colleagues he is, the gentleman speaks up to 4 adopted. So 82, 4 were adopted. The data isn't the Central State Office. The report agrees with the signatures and the leaders of those bodies that supply the data. The administrative court delivered that information. Therefore, 82, 4, that is, the data of the administrative court. Whether it's good or not, I think it's, we don't need much, I don't think we should comment on it, but we can, in the end, I'd like to comment on it. That's just what I'd like to say about the inaccuracies in this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61185	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote will, look. It was on Mr. Stazic here, so the government's representative spoke. There is a correction to the incorrect allegations, so we have now come into a situation that should first listen to these five and then Mr. Stazic on the deputy... So, first we have a correction to the incorrect quote, Mr Emil Tomljanović. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here's to Mr. Stazic's exposure. I'm sorry, maybe the deputy was supposed to talk behind it, but okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61186	So the incorrect quote was a respected colleague when he said he had not been described, that there was not a single letter about the mentioned case of a journalist in this report. On page 15, which is the deputy secretary of state and said, therefore, up to in detail in a legal and factual sense exactly that, let's put it under quotes, the case. So, not only is that incorrect, but you've actually deceived the public from that inaccuracy, and you've offended the Deputy Secretary of State. Well, it would be your turn to apologize to him when it's all expensive.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61187	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Kruno Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61188	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In fact, Mr. Stazic's incorrect quote is that the report is haired, falsely, therefore, absolutely incorrect. But the report is not at the will of Mr. Stazic. And when the report is not at the will of Mr. Stazic, Croatia may happen to fall 20 places down on the corruption list because we have offended him or Mr. Petrovic or both, which is actually irrelevant. So, we heard yesterday's threat and please watch out for your colleagues, it's about Croatia's reputation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61189	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Ivica Pancic. First replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61190	So I must say, I'm not too surprised that the current government has such a relationship with the law on the right to access information. Just remember the relationship the HDZ authorities had in the 1990s with the media and with journalists where journalists were just one of the main opponents, at least the authorities thought so...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61191	Take a look at the quote you're giving the replica. Allegedly. It says so in the Rules of Procedure, and 99 years ago, it's nowhere in the quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61192	We're talking about a government relationship. So it comes back in 2000, where there was an important liberalisation as far as this issue is concerned. Then in 2004, where the government started with that big open-door project. But what we got with that open door is that the press is tracking and tracking again. We've also seen pressures and pressures here on the media. A colleague, Stazic, also mentioned the "Transparency International" questionnaire. I wouldn't pay so much attention to that organization to these 200 questions and 100 and I don't know 15 answers. What is the relationship, we can ask the question, the authorities to the citizens when the government and the issues that parliamentary deputies are referring to often treats in a way that is not appropriate to it at all, to one authority. So on a few questions that I have asked certain institutions I have received an answer not from ministers but often from a spokesman to insinuate...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61193	Thank you very much, reply to the replica...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61194	... which I don't think is correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61195	Thank you very much. Let's move on, the replica of Mrs. Zdenka Babic-Petrichevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61196	Mr. Vice President, colleague of the Stazic. I will quote you on the Jelena Berkovic case, as this is responsible by representatives of the Croatian government and other colleagues and will continue. "Had the Law on Violent Procedure changed, the prime minister would have been punished. If the Law on Infringement Procedures related to the Drnovšek-Racan agreement, then Croatian Prime Minister Racan would be deprived of freedom," firstly. Secondly, you said you had to control the government. The truth is that we all have to control the government, the MPs and the opposition and the representatives of the position, so you added who controls Minister Shuker about his solution to Croatian television. I hope that you who are often on Croatian TV and there are a permanent guest that you will finally acknowledge what Croatian TV is doing and bring and substantiate with them their financial report on the business of Croatian Television.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61197	Answer, MP Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61198	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I did not speak about Croatian broadcasting, and I did not, from the financial report of Croatian Radio Television, talk about the Racan-Drnovšek agreement, so I would ask you to apply the same criteria to all MPs when you warn your counterpart Pancic in his replica. That's the first one.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61199	You won't be teaching the session, I'm running the session.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61200	You obviously need to be taught how to conduct a session because you are not taking it properly. Secondly, I would really like to apologize to Mr. Piculjan at this point for saying that there is no such thing in the report, but it was a mistake because I really came to ask you where the Berkovic case is, but now that I've read what you've written now, the only thing I can say is that you haven't finished your report. The last sentence is "it is necessary for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia to make a decision within 30 days on the prosecutor's appeal", and you forgot to write that the prime minister did not meet it and did not deliver the documents requested within 30 days.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61201	You responded to Mr. Piculjan, not to Mrs. Zdenko Babić Petricevic. ... We have another replica, Mr. Franjo Arabovic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61202	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I listened very closely to you, Mr. Stazic, I did, I didn't throw it away, although you looked at me, I don't know who threw something at you, but I was thinking about what this is all about, this one you've been saying about Petrovic for two days and now I'm at the end when Mr.... said the 15th page wasn't read. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So tell Mr. Petrovic he didn't read page 15. One more thing, so we can't speak for someone else, and you call us like we're supposed to tell the government that. You didn't read it. If you'd read it then you'd have seen that whole page. And the other thing, what's the conclusion at the end? You are exclusively with this debate has reached out to Minister Shuker over the Great Gorica and 9 April. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61203	Answer, Mr. Representative Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61204	Look, I have nothing to say to Zorislav Petrovic for the 15th page because I quoted his press conference from September 2005 before this report was written, you got it wrong. But I have this and not because of the Great Gorica, I have reason to mention Minister Shucker because if the President of the Court says that two decisions were made because Minister Schuker did not respect this Act, and if it is not in this report, then I have the right to say that it is inadmissible, so he competed, he competed in Gorica or did not compete, it has nothing to do with Gorica. The president of the court said, the president of the court said two decisions were made against Minister Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61205	Here's exactly 19 and 22. It's past 10 minutes' notice time. It's Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanović's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61206	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Deputy Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So I will also point out that this report should be fully supported and that it actually reflects the right to access information in the Republic of Croatia as accepted, as one of the fundamental human rights which is also protected and also the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the Convention on Access to Information, not only as a declarative right but as a right which is respected in the Republic of Croatia. We can say that the aim of the law is also achieved in such a way as to ensure that access to information is guaranteed to natural and legal persons through the implementation of the openness and public action of the public authority, and all of this is best supported by the figures, i.e. the data found in the report in question. A total of 4000 699 applications received were cleared from 4000 684 applications. The remaining 15 requests have been unresolved, 182 requests have been rejected, 3 requests have been rejected and 7 requests have been granted. When compared to the data mentioned here, we can say that the Administrative Court of Croatia has received 11 requests for access to information, and all requests have been accepted and resolved within the time limit. The second situation is when the Administrative Court decided on the actions brought in in terms of the administrative dispute. But let's look at the situation now. The administrative court has received 82 lawsuits. All these charges have been filed, i.e. to refuse access to information, but it is very interesting to note that out of the 73 cases resolved from that number that 1 procedure was suspended, 66 was rejected, i.e. the action was rejected, 2 were rejected, and only 4 complaints were brought. Therefore, since the administrative dispute was launched or the amount of administrative disputes initiated, only 4 complaints have been brought. When we put that in relation to the total submitted requirements, and he's 4000 499, we're counting the percentage here now, so that's about 0.08% in even in shifts if we were to express it is below one prominence. In conclusion, I would point out that in the implementation of the law, and everything related to the provisions on the appeal procedure, so here we are talking about the appeal procedure, where someone is making an appeal in the sense that he is deprived of the right arising from the law there are certain differences and opinions in relation to the Office of the State Administration on the one hand and of the interpretations of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia on the other hand which is certainly necessary in terms of establishing good case law or practice but I would personally be inclined to do so if it were to refuse the request for access to information and such a solution is brought by the central authority or body of the state authority to be directly in such situations, so that an administrative dispute can be initiated directly. The law itself on access to information and the report presented in my opinion is indeed a significant and positive step within or within the fields of human rights and fundamental freedoms and, therefore, this report and in this segment, the application of the law itself should absolutely be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61207	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61208	You see, dear colleague, when you say only four lawsuits are respected and that amounts to 0 wholes, I don't know how many you've said 00 proms. You're ignoring the fact that out of the four, they're one against the prime minister and two against the minister, I don't know who the fourth is. Well, now, I guess you don't appreciate the Prime Minister from the 0.00 promiscuity, and I don't suppose that's how you appreciate the minister. I'd be sorry if you appreciated them so much. You insult them because you can count 11 veterinary clinics and cells that have delivered the report in these 0.00 proms, you can but the prime minister can't because when the prime minister doesn't respect the law, then the right to access information is not the same as when the law doesn't respect some kind of veterinary clinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61209	The reply to the replica, the respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61210	Thank you, Mr. President. So in terms of respect and non-compliance with the law of interpretation of certain legal institutes, I said in my presentation that there could be certain differences in the interpretation of certain implementing rules. However, when the entire Parliament and the Croatian public hold a lecture on this material yesterday and today and yesterday not based on this material, the man where we have now witnessed this material has not read. So, just before we saw that you hadn't even read that material. So if you haven't read it then how can you discuss it too much, or the data that is here, and yet you hold back the right to give a lecture to someone and from some segments or some data that are available to you, you actually caricate things. And you do it all the time. And not only that, but you're insulting the government's representatives from the debate. Today, however, your arguments are thin and weaker in the sense that we have made sure that, with your theatricality, that it is the foundation of this theatreality that you do not actually read material.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61211	Honorable representative Velimir Plesa.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61212	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Your Honor, Deputy Secretary of State, Madam and Gentlemen Representatives. The right to the availability of information is one of the fundamental human rights, and I think that both the Croatian Government and the MPs who accept this report here can be proud and happy about this, that there has been remarkable progress in this area in 2005 compared to the year before, because during 2004, there were as many as 219 thousand 600 requests and during 2005, only 4000 500, or more precisely 4000 499, which were solved by 4 thousand 484 or even 99.7%. I think, on such a report, we must all be proud together, more so because we need to know that the Law on the right to access information was brought by the Croatian Parliament on 15 October 2003. So, for less than three years, if we count on this law to come into force in November 2003, it means that we are not three years in the application of this law and we see that it was then clarified in the text of the Proposer of the then Ministry of Justice, Administration and local self-government that law represented and represents the direct consequence of several recommendations of the Council of Europe which established the principles of information handling. For example, this is a recommendation from the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, Member States on the availability of information owned by state authorities, then the Convention for the Protection of Individuals in Automatic Data Processing, etc. It is also about some conventions and recommendations from the Council of Europe which have been accepted and which this government, which has actually come after a month, which has only shown by implementing this law that it is to a good extent that it has accepted such recommendations that were then proposed. All these recommendations have been made for the purpose of affirming the rights of the individual to be fully informed so that he can decide his rights and obligations accordingly, as well as developments in the social community and his environment. To this end, in addition to the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to comply with its legal regulations with the countries of the European Union, this law was passed, which the proposer himself today also said that, according to the government's thinking, there is no need at this time to go to any changes to the law. I would like to warn, however, of a few things that show that in this year or perhaps this year it is necessary to see whether certain things could not change in law, change and only for the reason that it would be better, that there would be as little debate as possible as we are here today and that we could see that everything that the law really wants to talk about can be realized. So I think, first of all, it's a few problems for me in the current form of the law we're discussing. I do not think that the law clearly distinguishes provisions concerning the right to information created by the institution to exercise its competences from that information concerning the functioning of the institution itself as a budgetary authority. For example, information on labour costs, public procurement, etc. The other problem I see in the text and in the provisions of this law, which I think may be necessary to consider whether they should be changed or should be improved, is certainly a way of implementing these rights as defined by the law because I find it more than questionable. If we put this law in some way in line with the Data Protection Act, the Law on the Protection of Personal Data or the Law on Archive materials and archives is clearly to ask the question of the relevant interpretation of the provisions of certain provisions of this law. So you should see and align those provisions with these very laws, for example, I soon found these three that were in line with the provisions of the law that we're talking about today. And finally the third problem I see is the law currently in Article 8 speaks of cases of short information that may be a wide variety of causes but short of appearances, now this is a quote from the law if there is a basis of doubt. It is therefore very little for me to do so and for the possibility of subjective interpretation of certain provisions, certain laws are extremely large and the possibility of manipulation has been created. It is precisely because of the fact that there would be no manipulation or that some MPs, when it suits them, would not use that provision of the law in a way that they manipulate in their discussions, that I think that the possibility of that provision being changed should be explored. I must finally say that, in any case, it is necessary to support the adoption of this report and we at the Club as it is said in the discussion of the Club's representatives, but also in the discussion of our colleague Tomljenović, we are in any case the ones who will give and raise hands for this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61213	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Vladimir Stengl.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61214	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Dance may only supplement this and explain these figures you said compared to the 19600 items in the first year and 4500 in the second year. It's just a sign that the application of that law came into one to say the normal routine. What happened at first? By passing this law, everyone has reported it, and now we're going to show you. The applicants were then parties and party parties who received several or possibly over several votes in the elections. And they came with a mass of these demands. Now it's come into a normal frame of how, "how God commands," you would say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61215	Five-minute debate of the HSP Club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61216	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, the representatives of the government are the shortest position of the Croatian Party of Rights Club. So compared to the report we had five, six months ago, which was about the 2004 period, this is a better report. Namely, that report had only three pages. This has 32 pages and then, on behalf of the Croatian Party Club, I said that it is obvious that the central state government and municipalities and cities and all bodies with public authority are acting according to the principle of "Shutnja is gold". Now a certain shift has been made. So some bodies are responding, but I don't think we can be satisfied with the whole situation again, because we ourselves know that the problem with the central authorities of the state and even worse is the situation with municipalities and cities because Croatian citizens can neither come to information nor go to this part of protection which allows them because we all know it well here in the Croatian Parliament because we get 5.6 letters from Croatian citizens daily who can't even get information about the exercise of their rights, related to access to information, because the situation is happening that they won't even receive a request and a variety of other situations. This all says that the law as a law will not help us solve the situation but it is obvious that we need to make a cut in the system of state administration to become a citizen service. Let's say a few demands are we from the HSP Club, I personally asked the Central State Administration Office to carry out an assessment of the legality of the acts brought by that municipality or city in a few cities and municipalities. I didn't get an answer at all. And there's a lot of such situations, so we at the HSP Club can only take this, this report to the knowledge, and expect it to finally work out all the central authorities and all the bodies that have tasks under this law. And will be primarily in the position of Croatian citizens and not of its own purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61217	Thank you. Final consideration of the Deputy Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61218	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's a really short one. It seems to us that, when listening to this debate is practically that we have now received a good incentive for this report and for next year to be even more quality and yes, and to be more and more inclusive. But in any case it was based on, and it was done in a way that, that we gave, that when we collected it, it was given trust to public authorities to report how much they actually allowed citizens to access information. All, all the shortcomings in this report stem from that. But those shortcomings aren't too much. To set all examples, to set all examples would be illusory. All examples of refuting judgments, judgments in the Administrative Court, but there was no hairstyle in any case in this report. There was no hiding information which best shows here the long debated case of journalist Berkovic, which was very plastic and completely given in this report. What we will certainly do in 2005, within the framework of the central state administration is move with citizens, with the Croatian public. The right to access information is not only possible legal and legitimately, normatively, but through a series, through web pages, through catalogues of information, through information officers made it possible to access information and data which the state authorities have and the public authorities are really doing better than they have ever been. Interest has fallen as a respected colleague and said precisely because the law has finally begun to be applied. So that great interest is now reduced to one normal interest and the information that is now being given is certainly better quality. What we did not, which Kovačević observed, is not only a question of the law on access to information, but a whole big strategy for reforming the Croatian state administration, which, it is a process that will last and in that part, this law will gain its true value in the next few years. Let's think about changing the law precisely in the sense that the honourable representative spoke about, and we will open the debate in the next few months, and we hope that the report will be even more quality next year than it was for Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61219	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2005. I give the vote the conclusion: The report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2005 is accepted. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. Score. With 73 votes for, 7 abstentions and 15 against, a proposed report has been tabled.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61222	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I want to thank you, President of the Parliament, for putting this item on the agenda today. In fact, probably one part knows that three of our Hague indictees, or more, where both Generals Petkovic and Praljak are already travelling to The Hague on 24 April and the trial begins. Our position regarding the Hague tribunal and all of this is well known so we will try to look back at the scale, what is most important at this time what the Croatian state needs to do. The Croatian state is obliged to take and take systematic legal, political and diplomatic measures to slow down and bring down the monstrous Hague indictments. The Croatian state is also obliged to provide full legal documentation, information and logistics assistance to Croatian defenders, indictees of the Hague prosecution. Despite attempts to appease the public from the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the occasion of the arrest of General Gotovina, a number of measures have been taken and appropriate documentation has been collected for the purpose of contesting the indictments of the Hague prosecution against General Gotovina, Markac, Cermak, Praljak, Petkovic, Ademija, Norac and other real situations is far worse. Neither the former nor the current government has taken appropriate legal, political and diplomatic measures to challenge and bring down unacceptable Hague indictments, mainly on criminal enterprise, ethnic cleansing, etc. By contrast, they provided the Hague prosecution with requested documentation neatly and systematically, which was primarily preceded by the former government, until they did so to Croatian defenders, Hague indictees. It is therefore high time to take systematic legal, political and diplomatic measures on the dispute, i.e. to bring the indictments of the Hague prosecution and to provide appropriate legal documentation, information and logistics assistance to the defendants of Croatia. Despite the fact that the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre from the Homeland War was established, the registration and action fence has not been decommissioned or bound to this day. The documentation from the Homeland War remains scattered in various places, from the Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Defence, the Government, the State Archives, the intelligence community, to what is worst, to private collections and now one part is transferred to the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre from the Homeland War. The document was unfortunately not carried out, and Croatian defenders, The Hague indictees were forced to even buy on the black market the documentation that serves them, because they did not receive it from the government. As the government, i.e. the Ministry of Justice is acting non-shallantly, and other ministries, it is the obligation of the Croatian Parliament to take appropriate measures. So we suggested this part of the conclusion that I'm going to tell you about later. But now I have to talk about that part that's very important. I'll give you complete examples. So the situation is more than serious. The latest information is on this, we know that we also have a Council for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal, and we also have a Council for the Preparation of Friends of the Court. The Council for the Preparation of Friends of the Court, namely when I first said on behalf of the Croatian Party what former Minister Vesna Skare-Ozbolt said that everything is ready, means full documentation for the defence of General Gotovina, I said I doubted the situation. And unfortunately today, that's how it is. Certain shifts have been made during this period but very little since the new minister was appointed. The Council of Friends of the Court has been visiting all of our Hague indictees and has found it itself that they have nothing from the documents. They don't have anything on the file. The only thing they realized was that someone had it from the documentation was General Praljak, and I personally looked at that presentation, and there was a colleague, Jukic. He and his associates gathered and put it all together, what we've been looking for for for five years. And you know how much this country costs to do that? It costs a million euros, a million euros. The situation is very simple. So that part General Praljak collected, because he didn't believe and knew how it would happen that he would get help from neither the former nor this government. Because it was clear that politics was both the former and current government, I hope that will change today, according to that general. Get on with it, generals. Unfortunately, that was the case. Look, so this is what I'm telling you it's a finding of a friend of the court's advice that they said about the paperwork that needs nothing. So that's where it's supposed to be. Remember how the former minister said we have everything, everything's ready, she's about to say we're waiting for the trial to begin immediately. But unfortunately, the situation isn't like that. That's not the situation. The only one who has ready now has more than the state has, which is the finding of General Praljak. And that, on that basis, is what I said to the minister personally and to everyone. On that basis, you can do what we've been saying for years. And that costs you a million euros in total. Yes, yes, a million euros, but it is not just the fate of those, fate is Croatia. In particular, because the indictments of this nature are related and, say, General Pralj, Petkovic and ours from Bosnia and Herzegovina, because this may be far more unfavourable for Croatia because of the fact that by doing so, you know that the Muslim side has already expressed the issue of war damage. And that could be over $10 billion to you. Here's how this is your situation, I'll show you on specific examples. I'd like to hear from you later, and I see normally that HDZ agents are unhappy with what I'm saying. I'd be even happier if you'd talk to me. But unfortunately, it's not like that. I'll tell you the facts. So here's the turn, we're not going to politicize, we're going to talk facts and figure out what to do and how to make this situation go away. For example, one of our generals, the defendant asked the Ministry of Justice, this administration at the Justice Department, to deliver to him all international contracts, agreements that the late President Tudjman made during his duties. Do you know how long this general of ours has been waiting? He waited for one year, first time he got two, second time another, which was all cheered up now by the ministry one more. And you know how many contracts there are? 227. After that, he, because in order for this to be used in the defence documentation in The Hague, asked for a certificate, so he told them not 3 but 227 of them and sent them all, I ask you to verify this because without the authority's authority's clearance, he cannot surrender within the framework to be a means of proof at the Hague Court of Justice. Another example is a good example, one of our generals asks that the Ministry of Justice, so all the demands you know, for any state body is directed by the Ministry of Justice and then the Ministry of Justice asks the competent authorities, means the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Ministry of Armed Forces, or the Ministry of the Interior, or the Government or the Office of the President, asked him to deliver all the orders he has in the conduct of his duties, meaning as General of the Croatian Army, they delivered him 44. And with the second General Praljko to have that file, 1417 of those orders were completely listed. So 1417. So the state says it's only 44, and this other way of collecting files means with friends, patriots, all of us who could help him in some way, there's been so much paperwork. You also have a situation for that agreement between Krajisnik and Ali Izetbegovic, there is no, Croatia could not collect that agreement which is a very important agreement where they agreed on the division of Bosnia and Herzegovina, nothing is alive and is ultimately from the lady, she gave the part of the agreement from the elder. The Croatian state doesn't have one. The same was the situation with a decision initiated by President Tudjman, so Croatia signed recognition of Bosnia and Herzegovina for two years. I therefore speak in good faith on behalf of the Croatian party of rights club, the situation is what I am talking about. Of all these above, we are, with many of them I am a friend and daily contact, and I hear myself, saying that the situation has been slightly improved since the minister arrived, but it's all nothing. Therefore, whether Croatia has the opportunity to single out a million euros to make full documentation, what has been said for years, and not to talk about the part about how Israel did it, the white, blue book and the system foreign to promote the truth about the Homeland War, to translate into all languages, to send it to all parliaments, unfortunately we have not yet done it. And now the situation is getting worse and worse. Watch out for April 34th, the trial of one group will begin, because now that the Hague court has not had this part with Milosevic, the second trial will begin, and it is high time to be serious, not to discuss this politically. I tell you the facts, whoever doesn't believe me, we'll go to all of them specifically talk, you can come with me. I express the facts, I am not speaking politically, we have no intention of collecting political points in that part, now is a situation where the interests of the Homeland War, the Croatian State are defended, and above all Croatian generals who were good to us while they were supposed to defend, release, create a Croatian state, and now that they need to be given both monetary and logistics and any other help they find huge problems. Now we just had a report about access to information, see what kind of access they have. Not at all. And for this reason, we have proposed that the Croatian Government take without delay and systematically legal and political diplomatic measures to carry out the indictments of the Hague prosecutor's office, to provide without delay and complete legal documentation, information and logistics assistance to Croatian defenders of the Hague prosecution and to establish a commission in the Croatian Parliament to follow it. I wish someone from the government had been so that they would deny me right away, but I'm saying, I talked to you today when I knew the point would come to order, unfortunately the situation hasn't changed there and I'm taking measures, so no politics, no anything else, to do what should have been done a long time ago. To do what should have been done a long time ago. Let's not politicize, I say, we can go to all of them, I'll go, we'll all go together, so can the President of the Parliament, but let's do what needs to be done. Let's not deal with politics that we'll tell the government we have everything, we know what the situation is, I say there's a record of advice that says they don't have any documentation and that the only way to do all this is because watch out for it to be seen. I'm saying, and there are people who have seen what it's supposed to look like and on that part that exists now, which is what General Praljak has to say, you need to upgrade the rest and then it's still about 7-8%. 7-8% of what should mean about the indictment against General Markac, General Cermak, Gotovina, Ademi and all others. The situation is I say a little better, because here's the minister of some generals and the person who received them, the ex-wife wouldn't even receive them, they had a closed door, and then I said on behalf of the club HSP why we were against it, and here I am again saying that the former minister didn't do anything. This new one works, but the day-to-day situation is, so the deadlines are approaching and the point is to build that information base. It's the most important thing to do is to build this information base because how will the Alliance prepare friends of the court, how will they prepare the court's friends if there's no paperwork. Let's get rid of the empty stories. The court is court and the court needs evidence. Watch out most of our indictees have received more documentation than the Hague prosecution since they have to provide that documentation for normal and use. And now we need to do all of this, what we're talking about, so that at least in that part, that's rounding it up. It costs a million euros. A million euros, you know where it is, as it is, is known who has even in private collections and everything else. Therefore, I plead that we are now discussing this really without a policy, without anything, to do but what Croatia must finally have, that it must have in one place in the collections everything that applies to the Homeland War that you can have a virtual review at the same time, everything you can put means in the database, so you know exactly what happened on the same day, what the Chetnic side was doing, what the Bosnian side was doing, what the intelligence communities were doing, which is who was doing and what was happening on that concrete day, let's say the 22nd of April 92. That's how it's prepared. You need to see what it's like to look like, and therefore I thank the President of the Parliament for putting this thing in order to finally get there without politics, the strength to talk about it, and finally do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61223	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HSP representative club, respected representative Vlado Jukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61224	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I called for a debate based on the fact that no one answered for the hearing. Neither on behalf of the club nor individually, which could mean that our proposal doesn't make sense or that I don't think anyone has the courage to say what they think about this. I have been established as a representative after 11 and a half years that I experienced in the Croatian Parliament that no one wants to show themselves on this topic. Both me and my colleague Kovacevic can discuss both you and I, as we discussed both last and previous year on this subject, and unfortunately I witnessed the facts discussed by my colleague Kovacevic. Unfortunately, I witnessed those facts. Two sides are medals. First of all, Croatian defenders, our generals deserve, declareably we all agree, the help of our country. Even if the state itself has no other interest except for their own personal defenses. And of course in this case it's not like that and that's what we all need to be worried about. Here are our even fellow MPs, before becoming indictees one of them explained in a sad voice to us who still knows what his condition is in the preparation of the defence charge. It was a year and a half ago, and after that, we took some political action that was declaring some results. We hoped that it would bring concrete results, but until the other day nothing happened that could say that there were some concrete shifts. Unfortunately, nothing. The Croatian state, with all its ministries, structures, experts, has formed advice on this matter, and the council has reportedly met two or three times at the coffee shop and, of course, there are no concrete clues about the work of the council. And this is a body allegedly drawn up by this Assembly and the Government to take over in a professional sense both our indictees on the one hand and on the other hand, taking care of the protection of state and national interests linked through indictments at the Hague tribunal. What my colleague did not mention and should mention, the hearings are scheduled. In a month or 25 days, trials begin. In such large processes, it is clear that it should not be a great expert that these trials, which have lasted for years and months, have preceded them and have been prepared for years and months, and it is unrealistic to expect that in 2 or 3 weeks something can be changed or repaired in terms of quality preparation for these trials. And thank God this point came even formally for debate. What I'm saying is, I'm saying for the record, it's not because I have the illusion that anything after this debate and the motion is about to change. Unfortunately, I don't have these illusions and that's what makes me very sad because after these 10, 12 years, one of the most important topics just fell into oblivion. Because our relationship with this issue and in the debate for me is a relationship to the overall issue of co-operation with the Hague tribunal. My colleagues and colleagues, we have in our basement here in this building archives. The archive of the Croatian Parliament containing many documents, all those documents that are important for the creation and history of the Croatian state. There is a period of history of the Croatian state that has its own shelf in the basement, has its empty folder, but has no contents. And that period refers to August 1991. As representatives, we have the right of course to use the reading room and the archives. So I tried last year or before last year, try you, a little will, take some will and try to find any document from August 1991. There are simply no and no answers or clues to where those documents are missing. The documents could not be submitted by the President of the Republic as could the documentation available to the President of the Republic. So in this whole Hague story about documents, this house has its share. Of course, these documents would allow some important facts to be read because it should be said that one of the topics and charges and defences were decisions and meetings of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in August 1991. According to the Croatian Parliament's documentation which, by the logic of things, of course has the documentation which, at that time, the Government should have, brought no such documentation according to my official information as a representative or in the archives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and does not exist in the archives of the Croatian Parliament. It's amazing, but it's true. Try to make sure, you each have the right to search for that file. What does that tell us? This tells us that it is possible that a part of Croatian history is missing. He disappeared from the government, disappeared from parliament, from the Office of the President was allegedly handed over to The Hague tribunal. So is it possible that after 10 years we can't get some key documents from the history of the Croatian state? From the days when Knin was released and when we all, who, where, someone in the trench, someone at home, followed the tense journals of Croatian television and every day there was a report from the meeting of the Government. There are neither letters in this House's basement nor reportedly in the archives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It is only one segment that shows that some things are not right and that the thesis does not "let's not talk about it, it should be done under the grain, and that would help our indictees the most, and apparently the whole issue of the Hague tribunal as well". Unfortunately, we did this for a few years and the result, we heard a few weeks ago our colleague's exposure, is very weak. It is realistic to assume that with such a weak defense, except for General Praljko's exception, that our defendants will pass as barefoot. And it is even more realistic to assume that given what has been done so far by the official Croatian government, which means the Government of the Republic of Croatia should not hope for significant changes in the context of the Hague tribunal's indictments. And we all know that if these indictments stay and survive that it will be very difficult for the Republic of Croatia and its history and that unfortunately our grandchildren will honor us that we did not do everything we could to make life easier for them. It is a sad fact that deserves our attention and therefore we have suggested that the Croatian Parliament should start, a little more activate those who have power and money and power and responsibility to put a little bit more effort into it. Of course, no one expects the prime minister of the Republic of Croatia to personally dig through the archives and deal with these issues. This is not expected from ministers, and we probably have the right to expect from people who are appointed to do so on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, and they are not, because if someone is dealing with me, let them show any act, the work of that council or any group of people in charge of the Republic of Croatia that has done anything concrete that will enable us to defend our defendants, better quality and on the other hand protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia in front of the Hague tribunal. Of course you can say so there is time, the trial will take a long time, but given the experiences of the Hague tribunal so far, that would be irresponsible and therefore we assure you colleagues and colleagues that this is a very serious issue that does not deserve anyone to answer for the debate. It's not just about our defendants who have earned the least of what they deserve as defence holders and people who have put their lives and all their knowledge and abilities in the service of the homeland, have made it possible for all of us to sit down for days, tell some to privatise and to pits that they can vouch for, and I guess they deserve from their own country what even as indictees have the right, to provide them with documentation based on what they can defend, and they have the right to do so. And why wouldn't this Assembly conclude that their right to do so? Another question is who dares to think in Croatia in the way it should be, the Hague court will take care of it. It will not take care of Croatian interests, Croatian Parliament and Croatian Government must take care of Croatian interests, and these interests are not protected in our opinion, and if this conclusion and discussion on which you will vote prominence goes in favour of the protection of Croatian interests, then there is no reason for the comments from the bench, but there is reason for an honorable announcement for word and clarity here in front of this assembly speaker. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61225	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the next point. What? ... You can, yeah just. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You can't go out like this. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go, Mr. Kovacevic. You can raise your hand, but your hand doesn't get up like this and that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61226	Well, I don't think you've been able to send any worse messages here to the Croatian generals, the Hague indictees who defend not only themselves in The Hague, but the defences and the Croatian state, the defense of the future and the Croatian children and the generation of your silence, because I say I'd be most fortunate if someone from the government had come, and I say today I've talked to the situation that is at this point, the situation is the same situation. You know what they're looking for? They're looking for documentation, they know what the documentation is so they can attach it to their defense. That's what they're looking for, and I can't get to it. Here, that's what they're looking for. I think I've said enough examples, and if the government could make an action plan to include General Gotovina and hire the entire state to work the entire service to include General Gotovina so that what we've been saying since 2004 can't be done. The generals who came back and went back to The Hague were coming here, let's say Mr. Jukic said somewhere it was when we first concluded that the government founded that information centre. One general cried, no one from the authorities said, no one will see him. When I go in there saying, when I walk into a tram one says it's all your honor you're a general, other talk looks at your head maybe he's guilty of something, maybe this, maybe that. Now you take their fate and go, I mean not to say so, but they will go there, they are fighting not only for themselves, they are fighting for Croatian history, they are fighting for the Croatian future and at least they have the right to this government, and the Government has this obligation, and we in the Croatian Parliament have the obligation to commit to the Government and say you are obliged to provide all the documentation aid, whether it is provided, not provided, information assistance, whether it is provided or not. He'll just come out of the media and say everything's fine. I say if you're ready to keep your mouth shut, I'll take you to them and you'll see the state of defense, yes, yes, I'm telling you, you're strong in words, but let's go from word to deed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61227	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Ivan Bagarić. Peace out there. Mr. Bagaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61228	Thank you, Mr. President. I am responsibly saying that the allegations that you have stated that the Croatian government is not working and does not help Croatian defenders are incorrect. So, among other things, Croatian indictees are now at large and defend themselves with freedom in Croatia, and this is the contribution and merit of the Croatian government and all, just a little talk about people who are now in Croatia and everything else that makes the Croatian government seem to protect them and do according to the law, and all the other things that you have brought out here is one great policy and, unfortunately, damages and indictees, harm everyone and do not hold that only on your face and on your behalf. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61229	Second correction, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61230	Mr. President, I will correct the incorrect allegations of a distinguished counterpart, Kovacevic, where he states the government is doing nothing to help Hague suspects. In fact, I have to deny it since the government is both diplomatically and legally concerned and materially concerned to help them as much as possible, and the documents you're saying are not available to them, and I'm going to refute it because I have information that they're very important for the storm and for those operations that their lawyers have received and have with them. Namely, use today's opportunity to illustrate your care and mental care in this empty space, do not do that because the generals have not authorized you to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61231	And the esteemed representative Kramarić Zlatko, then we will. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61232	Mr. President, in both cases, I raised myself and for the first time you gave me your word, Article 209 was injured. I'm saying that, so I'm saying that in the record of counseling for the preparation of friends the court has found that there's nothing, it's consistent. Therefore, I have not expressed my opinion but expressed the fact of the competent body, dear gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61233	And, sir, dear colleague, let us have trouble with the Rules of Procedure once and for all. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament say the MP who complains that the injured Rules of Procedure have the right to receive the word immediately and should specify a provision of the Rules of Procedure which, in the opinion of the MPs, has been violated.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61234	I said that, 209.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61235	Please specify. No provision of Article 209(1) has been broken, as that Rules of Procedure only regulates the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, who can submit it and should specify which provision of the Rules of Procedure is violated. Article 209(2) is not injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61236	And 214.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61237	It is necessary to specify which other provisions of the Rules of Procedure have been violated.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61238	Well, I guess I've got enough. I said I made the fact out of the record.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61239	So wait, don't. Well, the other thing is that. So it's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61240	It's done, it's done.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61241	Secondly, it's not about that either, the correction of the claim you're trying to make with the counterclaim is changing again.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61242	I gave the fact, not the claim.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61243	Dear representative Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61244	It is not easy to say anything in this atmosphere, but I think it is actually in this last address of fellow Kovacevic that several incorrect allegations are said, and in the first place because it seems to me that two things are constantly getting mixed up and that there is no, that there is no documentation that is actually truly devastating and then it is being transferred to the problem of helping these Hague defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61245	This is an explanation and thinking. What is an incorrect factual claim?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61246	Be careful, the reason for this action is that they are taking legal, political and diplomatic measures that are in place to help Hague assistants, and at the same time they were actually said here that there is no documentation that I really have to confess to me, that there is no archive of the 1991 Croatian Parliament, even though we receive regularly.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61247	This is one more explanation, one debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61248	And how else?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61249	Well nice, how different. How? I'm simply correcting an incorrect claim, stating which is the incorrect claim and explaining it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61250	This is an incorrect claim that fellow Kovacevic... make logical mistakes. [[The speaker doesn't understand because of the noise.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61251	And the exact claim is that time is up. Thank you. I'm finalizing a debate on this subject. Proposal for a conclusion on the commitment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to take legal, political and diplomatic measures, the proposed conclusion is the Association of HSP Representatives. I am voting on the proposal for a conclusion. The result? 20 for, 16 abstentions, 56 against. He didn't get the necessary majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61254	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! For the second time, when the proposal of the HSS Club is on the agenda, I will welcome the representatives of the Ministry or Government who are not here, so Mr. President, in some ways, I am mildly protesting it. Maybe that's not even a coincidence. The idea of this conclusion when we refer it to the procedure is actually to encourage a debate on the package of the Law on amendments to the Law on Road Safety or the famous law 0.0 of the promo as we know how to call it here in the Assembly because of the fact that 18 months is on the agenda, but for some unknown reasons there are no indications of the Government or there are reports of a state of traffic, and on the basis of which we could conclude what is best to do in order to change these laws. This is important because we have four bill proposals, four clubs are taking up this topic, we're attacking the administration's silence. This is kind of the silence of the Parliament and the silence of the government. We would like to make a commitment to this conclusion to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, within 30 days, to present to the Croatian Parliament a detailed report on road safety, with particular emphasis on changes to the law, which would include the impact of newly built road infrastructures, investments in road safety, and would also especially like to highlight the state of traffic accidents caused by drivers who were found to have up to 0,5g of alcohol in their blood. It's actually inexplicable. Our bill has been in the procedure since 15 September 2004, there is a great interest in the public, interest in tourist workers, caterers, wine producers, beer and the like. And here's what we haven't discussed in 18 months. In order to be able to discuss it, it is necessary for the Government to submit this detailed report and it would be good to submit it within the requested time limit. We were ideally proposing this conclusion, and we felt that if it was to adopt amendments and amendments to the law would be discussed at the 18th session, it would obviously pass the 19th session without that happening. We are interested in whether a new quality has occurred precisely in relation to the 0.5g blood due to the change in the law in Croatia. We're wondering if it's less, but we're wondering if maybe it's going to die in traffic and too much, especially if we're considering that several hundred miles of highways have been built, bypasses, that a reconstruction of numerous highways has been done. We're wondering if there's a plan to eliminate critical traffic points because more or less we all know that in some places heavy car accidents happen in particular. We're wondering if there's a resolution plan and this long-term transition plan across the railways where we often have "Andrija's Cross" and nothing more. We are interested in the relationship between the age of the fleet and the improvement in the number of accidents or deaths. It is widely known that there are no more flag, yuga and similar cars in traffic. We are interested in the impact on the payment of fines and the level of penalties in relation to traffic, and the particularly interesting issue is the greater decline of traffic in correlation with the obviously large or increased arrival of foreign tourists in Croatia because traffic congestion is then much more significant and we assume that every year we have more and more conditions for more and more traffic. We'd like to know if we've achieved through changes in the law and through these activities of the optimus. We'd like to know if we can achieve more? We'd also like to know how much money is collected from the fines that are charged and how are they used? Especially will it be interesting to hear what happens to those drivers who are convicted of voluntary work instead of fines because as far as I know there are no mechanisms for implementing this programme and convicted and judges are actually making fun of this model of punishment for traffic offences. It's probably gonna be interesting to hear how the traffic police are organized and how it works? First of all, I mean the personnel, the equipment. Is the correct information to limit the use of fuel in cars and so on. There's actually too many questions, and we haven't heard enough answers. We believe in the HSS Club that the Parliament has the right to know the true state of affairs. I remind the Parliament is a legislative body. Following the report when they are submitted, they should hold a debate on amendments and amendments to the law or withdraw these laws from the procedure. After 18 months, it's about time we did something about it and in order to do anything, we need to get a government report. That is why I am asking you to accept such a conclusion that the Government would be obliged to report on road safety within 30 days. This is not too long a deadline, especially since this item was included in the agenda on 17 January 2006. It has been announced and it would be logical if it had already been here and sent such a report to the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61255	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. PGS PGS's Club of Representatives of the SBHS of NDS, a respected representative of Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61256	... Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]] Here I have come forward for this debate because I am one of the legislators of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act with the Final Bill. I referred this law to the parliamentary procedure on September 14, 2004, and since that day, the law as well as three similar laws have been said to some, therefore, acidified on the agenda. I don't know if there have been such cases in the work of the Parliament that for so many months some law has waited so long to process the plenary debate. What is problematic is also not discussed on committees. When it was, when these laws were laid out in the Committee's agenda, then it sought in any way to avoid any discussion of them at all. We witnessed an obvious obstruction that lasts to this day. ... Wait a minute. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We're talking about it, yeah. And what happened so the government sent an opinion on one of those laws, but it wasn't about the others. But we didn't even discuss this law that had the government's opinion for reasons why other laws don't have the government's opinion just because the government has to make one expert analysis and with that expert analysis go public so before the Parliament and that would therefore be the main argument for change and... Here we are today waiting for this expert analysis and therefore we support the initiative of the Croatian Peasant Party's Club of Representatives to give the government a deadline to see this analysis, a professional analysis of what is happening. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's hear the answers to these questions asked by the promoter. But what's most important is that debate could already be done to me tomorrow. Why? Because of the fact that the Institute of Transport and Liaison made a proposal to re-authorise the minimum concentration of alcohol in the driver's blood in March 2005. So it's an important institution headed by Professor Ivan Dadic, who talks about the real causes of traffic accidents, alcohol as a cause of traffic accidents, blood alcohol in some European countries, the impact of alcohol on traffic safety, driver's attitudes, driver's attitudes, traffic safety in the Republic of Croatia, and so on. There are suggestions behind that, and there is a conclusion. So it's based on one professional paper. When we talked about the Road Safety Act, we said that he was one-sided trying to solve this problem, that he was putting everything on the driver's back, that he was putting everything on the back of those drivers who had at least the slightest amount of alcohol in their blood. We warned that this would not significantly affect the reduction of the number of deaths in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, that's what's happening. Unfortunately, it happens to the youngest or youngest drivers. Almost daily, we witness such accidents that are repeated. Here I read today in the paper about the death of two, two young people on one motorcycle wheel. They were athletes, but because of the speed, we lost two lives because of the inappropriate driving. Unfortunately, that's not good, that's not good. But I'm saying we have to react. The Institute warns of two other things that matter. With alcohol, however, let me just repeat that I think of these proposings, so we're not talking about a drunk driver having to drive freely, drive a vehicle, but only one that has a minimal concentration of alcohol in his blood. So the tolerance threshold must be something. Even with a model, he'll be punished if he makes a car accident as much as there's alcohol in his blood. For what we've advocated, so am I in my law to pay special attention to young drivers. It wasn't accomplished until the end. I suggested driving young drivers, and I suggest that in law, the driver must be marked with some kind of mark so that the police officers can distinguish them and pay more attention to them. Unfortunately, it's only when there's an accident that shows who's running that motor vehicle. And especially what the Institute warns that our roads are in many cases the cause of traffic accidents. So it should all be in analysis and therefore should change this law. This is about traffic only for you for information, because I have such data on traffic accidents before the resolution of certain black spots and traffic accidents after the resolution of certain black points, means traffic black spots in the Republic of Croatia. Here, we have a case of intersections at Dubrovnik in Sustepan in the period since '88. '90s. There were 71 accidents with a total of 5 deaths. When a recovery was made in the period of '94. There were no deaths until 2002, there were 21 car accidents. We also have a black point of turn at Bjelovar, at Rovisc, where there were 91 total car accidents with as many as 12 deaths in a certain period prior to the recovery. And after five years of recovery, there were no deaths. There are still about 150 such black spots in Croatia. Unfortunately, this is not the case, and this is one of the important reasons why such a large number of traffic accidents occur. And what, this year we've been recording months, e.g. In February, in February of this year, we recorded more deaths than in February of last year. So it's time we all got a good idea of what's going on on our roads together. That we don't think that the 0,0 percent rule solves the problem because we haven't solved it. And it can be solved in a different way to capture all segments that therefore make up our transport system. And that's why I think it's very important that if the government doesn't think that it still doesn't have to go with the law, it's obvious that the nearness of the parliamentary elections is waiting, that this conclusion is therefore bound by the government if it isn't tomorrow't the elections then let's discuss this law here in the Parliament to accept this conclusion and thus open this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61257	Thank you. Now there's an election, where in the Czech Republic? Hungary, Italy. They were in Ukraine the other day. And there are still elections in two counties and one city, nine. SDP club, respected representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61258	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club supports the proposal of our colleagues from the HSS Club, and on the proposal that the Government give its own, to commit to the government's conclusion on traffic safety reports. And it is evident that it would be very important in the House to discuss traffic safety. Not only with the Security Act, but I'd say between those periods when we're passing laws, when we're changing them, or when we're assessing that one of me would say the provision needs to be amended. And surely in one such conclusion, the government would have to make a commitment that with its statistical data, with the evaluations of these statistics, that the traffic situation, that the data about me would tell the quality of the rolling stock and, of course, the assessment of the driver's behaviour. When we talk about the issue of statistics, I would say an analysis of these traffic statistics is certain that we are very interested in how grossly invested Croatian taxpayers' money is in I would say in roads, especially in highways. It probably has an impact because it is also important to try to let the citizens of Croatia know that investment in highways is primarily for the reasons of their safety. But also what we're assessing is probably not enough, it's a matter of maintenance primarily of highways, and I'd say unclassified roads are very problematic. And these very unclassified roads are a good part of the uncertainty of traffic, I would say the negative assessments I would tell those who drive on the roads and who send messages to their tourists give negative assessments. Therefore, it would be very important to assess I would say the state of maintenance of unclassified roads and the cause of this is clearly missing funds. And at that point in Parliament, we would be asked where to find any additional sources to solve this most difficult and massive problem. And that's why only this debate, based on the government's report, could I tell the debates to come up with not only the Transport Safety Act, but probably something related to additional sources of resources in terms of transport security. Of course, economically speaking, the government's statistics and grades are very important in the part of what our fleet and travellers are, in particular, burdensome. Not to mention the transport of road passengers where we obviously have a lot of problems with age, the investment issue, and we are going to be very careful in the Parliament whether we are going to invest, investors and businessmen who are going to put a burden on some tax burdens if we want to improve in the quality of the fleet. And of course we're going back to those sociological problems, which is a question of driver behavior. And I believe that certain government reports on how an age group of drivers could affect our thinking of what to do in the amendments to the law. I'm sure we're very interested in the assessment of how much I would say the influence of alcohol from 0.0 to 0.5 is problematic for drivers. What is the underlying problem, whether because of the influence of alcohol or because it is not known to fit in 0.5, is what the Government would do in such analyses, in such reports, and possibly also by the opinions of sociologists help us all to perhaps look differently at individual suggestions when they come from the government. And of course, an assessment of the application of the law at this point would be very important. Not because we're changing it, but because that's why we want to do an analysis so we can say that we care about traffic safety and that's why we evaluate it as a SDP club that we will support the proposal for a conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61259	Thank you. The HSU Club, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61260	Dear Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The HSU Club will support this proposal for a conclusion that is bound by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit a detailed Report on Road Safety, once for collegiate reasons, because together with other clubs we have proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Road Safety Act. And secondly, for purely practical reasons, because we as advocates have the right, and the duty to know how, what effects are produced by a particular law in our implementation. Furthermore, we want to discuss these statistics once again, because we tend to put too often pears and apples together, i.e. to process various data with methods that are inappropriate, simply not going together. We have at the same time received several new parameters that had to be statistically processed and there will be one confusion in each case in interpreting these statistical parameters. And nothing like this can be interpreted in public as the merits of one measure but more measures are applied simultaneously and the issue of more rigorous procedures for young drivers and the question of new roads put on the market and the issue of bans, all at the same time applied and it should be very well discussed to see what the impact it is. Furthermore, through one such report, we would like to get the opportunity to finally, as the Croatian party of pensioners, clarify something about encyclopaedic knowledge, to finally find out here in this Croatian Parliament, what the situation is, until a man is treated as sober, which is a matter of which is a difficult drunk state, because the encyclopaedic knowledge says otherwise than it says in this law. After all, and in the Labour Protection Act alone, consumption of alcohol of 0.5 promillas is allowed and you can manage a 120-ton crane worth millions of kuna, on the other hand under or in the environment for 10, 20 or 50 people. So why in one law we have one criterion, and in another law we have other criteria. After all, we will support this conclusion for a very practical reason because there is no gathering among the pensioners that I have appeared to without anyone asking me when you will return 0.5. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61261	Thank you. Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61262	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At this session of the Parliament on the agenda since the beginning of the session, we have seven reports, different reports. The Assembly regularly discusses various reports. It's a common case. Now we have an extraordinary request for a traffic report. I know it may be motivated by this law that introduced the provision 0.00 has passed. Maybe it shouldn't be directly tied to that law or it shouldn't be motivated to get through that report to... in that law. Because I say, we are so often discussing different reports and it seems logical that given the importance of transport and what is happening in Croatia, how many people die in transport, especially young people, that the most representative and legislative body in the Republic of Croatia almost every year would have to at least discuss one such report on the state of transport. Who would file such a report? Whether or not an independent body necessarily matters. Department of Internal Affairs, Transport College. I don't know who. Or commit them all together to make a summary report that the government will then give. But in any case, we can't treat the problem of traffic, we don't actually have the right to treat ourselves as we do. Here's today I'm watching "The Diaries" again, and something from Europe is making us sick that our highways are bad. That it's nice that we did everything and built highways, that it increased traffic safety and indeed on highways is only 2% of traffic accidents from the total number, which means that it significantly increased traffic safety. But now they're warning you, but now people are dying in the magistrate's office. Well, if they were going to die on the magistrate's side when they didn't die on these, there'd be more dead bodies if there weren't highways built. But two lives yesterday lost young. Young people die every day. So let's see, here's where someone says where the black dots are, there's no killings in those places. But let's see when we get all that data here, when experts do it, when the waist says what they do and makes some indicators, statistics, when we see what can affect traffic safety, that when we go as Parliament towards the government, according to the Croatian highways, Croatian roads, we can take care of as many black points as possible. To bring into the law everything we need to enter to save these people's lives. No effort of ours, no effort at all, can be difficult for us if we save one of those young lives. And I think that would be a minimum of what we can do. Perhaps with regard to this proposal, the conclusion that we now accept it as extraordinary, and perhaps to agree that there is not a debate behind it about 0,00 changes because it will necessarily be political and politicised and the problem of traffic should not only be brought about because the problem is too big, too significant for us to politicise it. But if we accept this now, this initiative for an extraordinary report, to agree that perhaps we should make a decision about this report to discuss this matter once a year. So if you need to go into changing the law into additional control of young drivers, they are the most endangered, most exposed, to see what can be done. Well, at the cost of young people hating us all if we're too hard on them. And today they will resent us tomorrow for saving their lives by amending the law. So let's accept this now, let's accept this. Let's discuss this with the Government, discuss it even if we never discuss these laws that are withdrawn on the agenda. Obviously, they will not be discussed until the end of the term of office or until the government decides. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. But from that debate we see, let this debate show us where we have to go. Which way to help, to do everything in our power to solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61263	Thank you. Final Review of the Proposer, Honored Representative Željko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61264	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's only for a short while. Obviously, we all agree that there are too many deaths in traffic in Croatia and apparently no one has anything against the conclusion, so at least I concluded through the debate, but again one question as in the previous debate. Why aren't we in? Are we going to support the idea this time as well as the connection between food and tourism, and not support what is really important. It is important to support the conclusion in order to hold a debate in Parliament and to hear a detailed report on road safety. We lose a small town in 10 years if we watch how many people died on our roads. I think that because of that fact, we should find out what's going on and I think we should answer ourselves if we've done enough to change it, to stop it. As a result, we should find out within as short a time as possible and adjust the laws to resolve such a bad situation and to change in the shortest time what is painful for families and finally, what we are successfully moving down. I think the relationship between investment in roads and the number of deaths is still too great. However, I would like to hear about the profession, I would also like to hear new solutions that would change the situation, through the debate we have obviously heard about this conclusion of an idea, to open a debate on road safety reports, would probably hear many other, better ideas. And that's why I'm asking you to support the conclusion not just because of the 0.0 change. He's part of that story rather than hear what needs to be changed, how and do it as soon as possible. And it would probably be good for someone from the government to be here next time we talk about such a question as the loss of a small town in Croatia in 10 years for those who die in car accidents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-30-0.u61265	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Resume session tomorrow at 10 o'clock. We'll start with the Proposal for a Law on the Education and Education Agency. Session interrupted at 20.50 hours The proposal for a conclusion under which the Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to submit a detailed report on road safety, is proposed by the Association of Representatives of the HSS. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 32 for, 3 abstentions, 63 against. The proposed conclusion has not been adopted.
