ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u78993	We're going back to work. So we move to the 11th point of the agenda: - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Securities Market Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 587 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the Rules of Procedure, an emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on European Integration. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? ... The Secretary of State, please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u78994	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here's the government proposing the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Securities Market Act. Another in a series of laws that need to regulate the financial market in the Republic of Croatia. So above all, the most significant changes and additions to this law and what is proposed to be amended and complemented relate primarily to the forms of financial instruments. So a new and new form of financial instruments, derivatives will be added. Therefore, the instrument derived from securities, indexes, currencies, interest rates or some other form of securities and thus will enable trading and regulate the trading of such securities. This is in line with, of course, the best world practice and something that is really common in everything, in all markets. In a certain way, the stock market will be arranged. The stock market as such will no longer be arranged in such a way that those who are members of the stock market are also its owners but will be separated from membership and thus will also be much better and much more efficient in the management of the stock market and the quality of the stock market. What is very important, therefore, is that this Law seeks to affect the security of securities markets, the safety of citizens, investor security, company security, companies that are therefore found on the market and who want to invest in securities. So an option in a certain way to monitor transactions, to disable trade that is past the law. To strengthen supervisory measures in the sense that transactions can be annulled. That it can be prohibited to make certain shares available if their trading was past the law. It is possible to make public warnings on the market. Extraordinary audit of the business of an authorised company, special management. So special attention will be paid to the administrations. In a certain way, it will be resolved and regulated by this law at the disposal and use of privileged information. We know very well that because of the use of privileged information in a certain way, certain market participants earn a lot more than that, rather than whether they do not have such privileged information or bring to an unfair position those who do not have that information. Information will have to be supplied to the public or to investors in an appropriate manner. The concept of market manipulation and concerted action will be defined in order to obtain an unlawful advantage and, in a certain way, the central depositary agency will receive certain, certain changes. In what is very important, this law very clearly defines criminal sanctions for those who violate all these rules that this law wants to be regulated. The main objectives are primarily to increase the liquidity of the market through the introduction of new instruments, but also to regulate trade in these instruments. Transparency of business. Protection of the interest of investors and investors. The inability to influence investor and investor decisions by spreading incorrect information. So that incorrect information is being manipulated in a certain way by the market and made a profit. And what is very important, therefore, is the stability of the entire financial market or segment of the financial market, which is the market for securities that in the last 5 to 6 years is the fastest growth we have seen in the last few days. And of course, what is very important is the increase of the supervisory body. The supervisory authority in the event of the implementation of this law and the Croatian Financial Institutions Supervisory Agency HANFA, which will, in a certain way, establish detailed rules for market participants by introducing new supervisory measures. And what is very important is that the law represents a partial alignment with the acquis of the European Union. Here's so much from the proposer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u78995	Thank you. Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? The Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Mr. Shime Wretches, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u78996	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, just for the amendments that we propose to accept in this law, we want to report to the Parliament on our position. Of course, I'm not gonna be presenting all that technical data at the beginning. We're like the parent body discussed. They informed us what the word was and we had the following comment. It is proposed that Article 5 be replaced by the following: The final draft law deletes paragraph 3 of Article 15 of the applicable law on the grounds that the provision of paragraph 3 is unclear and contradictory and in its application creates legal uncertainty and favours those participants in the capital market who act contrary to the rules of the profession. The deadline of 60 days relating to the obligation to resolve the request in the first instance of the completion of the application shall apply to the removal of illegality following the final resolution of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. Such a deadline is not legal and does not exist in the General Administrative Procedure Act, and it obliges the supervised entity to do something that is once immaterial. In the case of asset blockers, the entity is insolvent. How can a further reduction of assets be prevented by 60 days and other criminal and litigation proceedings are conducted in parallel? The Croatian Banking Association has proposed an amendment to Article 34, new paragraph 5. The final proposal for a law proposing that an authorised portfolio management company be allowed to hold securities in its own name and for the account of the authorising officer other than the central depositary agency and the trustee bank. The proposed way would ensure transparency and simple operational feasibility according to the HUP proposal. The same article also proposes to amend the new paragraph 6 in a way that allows an authorised company to invest in investment funds in any part of the world, not only in the Republic of Croatia and the Member States of the European Union and the OECD. Those proposals shall be amended by the provisions of Article 34. The final draft law was not supported by the Committee on the grounds that the proposed provisions of Article 34. In addition, the final draft law does not comply with other proposed provisions of this law. After the debate, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided to unanimously propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of this law. And an explanation once again with the amendment one that we propose to accept. We pray and think it would be unforgivable not to accept. Amendment 1 to Article 5 The final draft of the law referred to in paragraph 1 shall be added as follows: “Article 15(3) shall be deleted. ” Explanation. It is proposed to delete the provisions of paragraph 3 of Article 15 for the reasons that it is incomplete and creates a legal gap, and to prevent consistent implementation of the principle of legality and protection of users of financial services, as well as markets as a whole, linking the supervisory measures of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency to 60 days. So unlimited often insufficient time. During that period, the supervisory entity under which the measure has been adopted may continue to act unlawfully to damage the assets of the beneficiaries of financial services which creates legal uncertainty and makes the Agency's measures ineffective. So let's just say once again that this amendment should necessarily be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u78997	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u78998	Very briefly, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed Secretary of State. This law should also be clearly supported by a solution in the stock market. I think the law proposes and, at the very least, properly, members of the owners cannot be the same person. I also join those who believe that the security of the securities market under this law will certainly be greater if the regulatory authorities are able to withdraw shares that violate public competition. What is certain is the essence of this law is privileged information. Croatia is a small country. You know everything. The Pliva case is certainly the most recent form of violation of privileged information through Mr. Ćovic's character and work, and the privileged information to him only brought about 15 million kunas of pure earnings this summer. All major privatisations in the Republic of Croatia can be said to be burdened by this very qualification. So, privileged information. Unfortunately, we're all at least ten years late in this section. Mr. Shime Rifle mentioned Article 3. I think that's correct. That's something to take care of. It needs to be completely changed. However, we have a few more moments that I would say burden these days with behavior between the other and the stock market. 12 Croatian insurance companies are being negotiated and is in some way starting to create under the allegations of cartels. That's inadmissible. It's supposed to be illegal and someone in this country needs to react. Namely, what it's about. They work on an agreement that is neither less, nor more signed by almost all insurance companies in society, in the state of Alliance, Croatia Insurance, Euro Herca, Generalia, Grawe, I don't know about Helios, Adriatic Insurance, Triglava, Kvarner Insurance, etc. One word is about networking as well as about banks when they control your duties, credit ability or inability to negotiate mutual business decisions here clearly at the expense of their committees about the Malus bonuses, and that is unacceptable. I think someone here should react first of all to the Competition Protection Agency, but that's definitely what we need to talk about. For the end, I'm going to point out once again exactly the problem of this privileged information. People who are led mainly by state-owned companies who are privatised in such a position are not only holding back after privatisation as a management of new companies that come to the ground of Croatia, but for themselves, for their own account, their families, friends, etc. They're all trading in state property at sixteen. I'm not going to say that inn, even though it could be called that, it's simply through that system of privileged information that comes to unfounded illegal profit. They should be excluded from such opportunities.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u78999	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79000	I am correcting an incorrect, respected Mr. Vice President, and correcting the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague, Cain, regarding privileged information, which is that both I and he have asked HANFA and the relevant authorities to establish the right facts and take appropriate measures. Unfortunately, it's obvious he ate a donkey wolf. Neither HANFA nor anyone has entered the case related to the Covic case for privileged information and any other cases that occur. So we're also asking the secretary of state to tell us what was done here.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79001	Thank you. The word has on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community a respected representative of Šima Prtnječa.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79002	Once again, we would like to welcome and support the adoption of this law, including the small shortcomings that every legal solution has to bear, and which can subsequently be corrected with one more request that the amendments that we have submitted to the Committee on Finance be accepted, so that, at least in that part, we can remove the risk of potentially protecting the owner of securities. Just a few facts and reasons for adopting and supporting the adoption of this law. The existing law was passed somewhere in July 2002 and, of course, it then defined the basic trading conditions for securities with all market participants and protection instruments. However, it was precisely in the area of protection that many shortcomings were manifested so that it was necessary for these reasons to approach the adoption of a new law in which completely better quality means would be regulated differently by the terms of trade in securities and participants in the area, as well as by supervision. Meanwhile, there was also a legislative amendment so that a central central state institution called HANFA was formed and replaced four earlier agencies with a mission that plays a central role in the control of the market, and therefore the amendments to this law and, on the third hand, to the re-correspondence with certain European newspapers that have also been adopted and established in order to protect participants in securities trading. For all these reasons, the law has been passed and we repeat and support it. The basis of this law is the increase, hence the regulation of the securities market, the stability of the market and the development of the market, expressed simplistically with all the details in this context. What we particularly want to highlight, the newspaper. I particularly highlight the ban on irregularities, the ban on possession of property, that it can be intervened immediately. Then a revision can be introduced and a new administration can be introduced. In fact, if there is often not enough information, then quality information and up-to-date information can only be audited so that urgent measures can be taken. In this respect, the amendment, or the amendment, that such measures could possibly be taken in time to protect investors. Secondly, in the case of investor protection when the insolvency of brokerage companies is observed, it can then be intervened and a new administration should be intervened. But that administration also needs to avoid conflict of interest because the experience has often continued to protect its own interests by setting up its own people, and then of course there was no market and it was not possible to carry out investor protection. It also regulates qualifying shares and controls on this, again for the same reasons not to, in order to avoid the edge on the capital market. It is then defined who can deal with securities, and it is determined that they are brokered companies and banks under special conditions and others which must, of course, be excluded from such trading. And also a special area that's being arranged, which is control, possible control and abuse of the stock market. And this is how order is introduced so that there can be no control and arrangement on the stock market. Here are some newspapers we keep in mind that if nothing from the protection of holders and securities owners should be protected, avoided the control of the stock market and markets, avoided privileged information and based on that privileged information avoided control completely because then it can't be said that the market actually, the market control that was obviously there, so here and during this year of course happened. For these very reasons, we support the adoption of this law, with possible changes that can still be accepted at the time of adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79003	Thank you. Finally, Secretary of State Ante Zigman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79004	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here I thank you for this brief and fruitful debate. I think it is very important that the MPs who discussed this law have realized that they support this law, because it is indeed seen and confirmed that it recognises the importance of actually developing this segment of the financial market that I repeat is growing the fastest in the last 5 years. And in that sense, his regulation and his supervision and control are very important. In any case, I would like to say, therefore, that this law would rightly eliminate all these risks that were at stake today during the debate. And regarding the work of HANFA, it should be noted, therefore, that HANFA is an institution that has not yet been there for a year, that it has indeed done its job very professionally and that, in that sense, it has also made certain criminal applications and has drawn up what it seems to me that the public has been fully informed. In any case, I would just like to point out in the end that we accept the amendments of the Committee on Finance and Budgets and the Committee on Legislatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79005	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79006	Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Securities Market Act. The amendments submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget have been accepted by the Proposer. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 88 votes in favour and 6 abstentions, the proposed law was adopted together with the amendments adopted. In accordance with the proposal of the Legislative Committee, I am voting on the next conclusion. The professional service of the Croatian Parliament is hereby authorised to conduct a revision of the text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Securities Market Act before its publication in the "National Journal". Please, let's get on with it. The result? With 92 votes in favour and 3 abstentions, the proposed conclusion was accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79007	We move to the next - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 584 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure were conducted by the Committees on Law, Finance, the State Budget, European Integration and the Committee on Immigration. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Secretary of State Ante Zigman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79008	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Law with the Final Proposal of the Law. It is therefore a law of the set of laws relating to harmonisation with the European Union. Customs law and during what is important to say, therefore, that during this year the screening for the customs union was held, i.e. for the chapter of the customs union, in fact which, which covered by this chapter and this law. And in fact, this law in a certain way harmonizes all those discrepancies, all those differences that exist between Croatian customs legislation and European legislation. Of course, during the analysis and assessment of the conformity of customs legislation with European in Chapter 29. The customs union has identified non-compliant areas and the Republic of Croatia has in certain areas taken the obligation to comply with the clearly established deadlines laid down in the negotiating position adopted by the National Committee. And in this regard, it should be noted, therefore, that we are also expecting to open chapters on the negotiations on Chapter 29. Customs union. The majority of the provisions in question and the additions to this law are due to the obligation to bring the customs lists in line with the amended European regulations in the meantime. So we are constantly here in the law harmonize with the change of the Customs Regulation, and a small part of the provisions of the need to overcome certain difficulties in Croatian customs practice. What is wanted by this law? The fundamental objective of the proposed amendments is to bring Croatia's Customs Law into line with the European legislation as consistently as possible. This and efforts to simplify and speed up the implementation of customs procedures in order to achieve the degree of effectiveness of the customs services of the European Union. In this respect, it is necessary to ensure that the customs system and the Croatian Customs Service and related economic operators reach the level of European customs standards at the time of accession, which is a further simplification of customs procedures for all participants in customs and legal transport, which meet their obligations to the national budget neatly and in due course and require guarantees for the settlement of customs obligations. So that entrepreneurs and all those who are in the transport procedure, who import goods for sale in the Republic of Croatia and of course who are neat in a certain way are in a better position to be able to do their job as high and efficient as possible. As far as citizens are concerned, it should be said here that time is being reduced, in this law it is therefore proposed to reduce the time needed to stay abroad in order to import certain goods that the citizen had abroad. This period, from three years to one year, will make it easier for the whole situation of citizens who have often been working abroad lately, and in doing so, certain personal things must have a passage between Croatia and that destination towards Croatia. The obligation to adopt the proposed law is laid down in the opinion of the European Commission from before for the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union. Decisions of the Council on the principles of priority, a negotiating position, as I said adopted on the National Committee and the National Programme for EU Accession for 2006, which mentions Chapter 29, that is, this law. I just wanted to point out at the end, so we accept the amendment of the Committee on Legislatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79009	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? We're moving on to a debate. The word has a distinguished representative Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79010	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I'm speaking to the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance. I sent you a call yesterday for today's session of the Immigration Committee. The Committee on Immigration is a really modest committee and we are not discussing matters and agenda points that are not in our domain, and we regret that no one on behalf of the Ministry of Finance has been on our committee today and I will now try to focus on Article 80, which we discussed together as colleagues and we wanted to ask you a few questions so I will now use your presence and I will ask you questions about what was not clear to us. Certainly a change in the Customs Act that goes into first and second readings we accept, and we only refer to Article 80 of the proposed law, paragraph 11. I will quote it: "Employments of households that, when moving to the Republic of Croatia, imports of natural persons previously staying in another country for a continuous period of at least 12 months, the items had to be owned, or used before moving, for a period of at least 6 months, and imports could be made within 12 months of the day of moving. The deadline for imports may be extended in exceptional cases." You have commented on this item right now at the end of your opening statement that this facilitates the return of people who, after a short time, return to their homeland. Since from experience and my work experience first as head of the Foreign Office of the Republic of Croatia until Croatia is recognised, later as a consul general, these procedures are very well known to me, so I ask you a question. Whether the Regulation continues to determine the amount to be released from paying the customs duties of a person on the basis of a stay, i.e. a working internship abroad. I don't think it would be good if all the people who come back to their homeland one year later or those people who worked 30, 40 or 50 years outside their homeland had evened out. In the hope that you will answer that question, and I don't know if I'll have time to make a single amendment. I now propose it to you in oral form if it is acceptable, so I will quote: "The items of households which, when moving to the Republic of Croatia, imports of natural persons who had previously been in another country for a period of at least 12 months, had to be owned, or used before the move at least 6 months did not, and for those persons who did not benefit from the release on this basis", because it may occur to you that if you do not have this sentence, which was already in the previous draft of the law, or in the law, that they did not benefit from the release by this basis, they would happen to come to you in the Croatian representation of general consulates and embassssies every short time and ask for a return confirmation if such an article of Article 80. Think about it a little bit, I think it would be good if this sentence were back in the bill, if they hadn't used a release on this basis. If someone comes back after 30 years in Croatia, gets a refund certificate, moves in within 12 months, without this sentence I think they can use it again because they have the right now for different reasons with the place of stay they don't log out and after a certain time they come back to the consulate based on their stay and ask for feedback. Here, please, I'm wasting these clarifications on you and I'm proposing an oral amendment if you say I'll send it in writing. Then the article, article 17 of Article 80, which is like its own works from abroad by scientists, writers and artists, I hope this is about Croatian citizens, and how the foreigners who move into the Republic of Croatia will bring their scientific literature and works of art about it, you may need to arrange it with the rule. I am glad that there are personal cars left that, for the purpose of personal use, imports of disabled persons with 100% physical impairment or with at least 80% body damage function of the body for movement and this relative percentage of physical damage. Here are our, our brief reflections from our discussion this morning of the Committee on Immigration, and please give us an indication of Article 80, paragraph 11, think about it, I can also write an amendment in a short time, and I think it's justified by at least my thinking from a long-standing experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79011	Thank you. You have to hurry up with the amendment, because you're the only one who's called for a hearing.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79012	Well, I'll write the amendment, I won't write the amendment if...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79013	As long as the Secretary of State has the final word, let's...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79014	So what do I, why, am I real and point to what...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79015	Thank you. Finally, Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79016	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would like to apologize immediately for the fact that there was no one from the Ministry of Finance on the board this morning, although I expected someone to be present and should have been, but in any case related to paragraph 11. So the rulebook will be amended and in that sense certain changes will be made that you have proposed and we will keep that in mind. So that's not the same... First we're going to 12, okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] As regards paragraph 11, where it would actually be added and actually make item 11 more restrictive, therefore, that it cannot be used multiple times, if it has not checked out and has not completed its checkout and has indeed moved out and has returned abroad again. I think such an amendment would make sense and please, therefore, to propose that amendment to us. And objects that as their own actions, this refers to a return to Croatia. As far as paragraph 17 is concerned, that's fine. So, here, I would if you were satisfied with the answers that ended your final review. I have said about these amendments that we accept them, the Committee on Law and this amendment that will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79017	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79018	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Customs Code. The amendment submitted by the Legislative Committee was accepted by the Proposer. We have one amendment submitted by MP Zdenka Babić Petricevic. The promoter did not accept it for nomotechnical reasons. Dear MPs, here you go. Amendment withdrawn. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 91 votes in favour, 7 abstentions were adopted, the final draft law was adopted along with the amendment of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79019	We're moving on to the next one. - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Access to Information, Public Participation in Decision-making and Access to Justice in Environmental Affairs, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 592. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You have received the proposal in boxes, in accordance with Article 159. The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative, Spatial and Environmental Protection and the Committee on European Integration. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Here you go. Mr. Nikola Ruzhinski, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79020	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This is the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention, the Archduke Convention, which was adopted in 98, a Convention covering the right to access information, public participation in decision-making and access to justice in environmental protection matters. Therefore, the entire Archduke Convention includes the right of the public to participate in all segments of the adoption of legislation, implementation, adoption of those regulations, preparation and later even the possibility of access to justice if this authorised, authorised representative of the public is not satisfied with what happened. This Convention came into force in 2001 after being signed by certain states, and what is significant today is that 39 countries ratified this Convention. In 2005, the European Union just adopted this Convention so that our own, our acceptance, our ratification is within the framework of our MPPU, therefore, of the approximation of the European Union and we have decided to give this Convention for ratification. Otherwise, we signed it in '98, as well as the rest of the states, so in the arms itself, when the 4th was held. Ministerial conferences in Denmark, and a good part of these provisions related to the Archduke Convention are present today in our legislation. What's important to point out, this Convention covers 3 so-called 3 so-called It stands when it comes to the Archduke Convention. It's public access, access to information. The second participation in decision-making, environmental decision-making and the 3rd pillar is a public approach to justice. The European Union has adopted 2 directives, which cover, this first 2 pillars, so access to information and public participation. Public participation and decision-making. However, this 3rd pillar, law, access to justice has not yet been resolved by the directive. We will cover certain parts of the Convention that are not covered so far by our new Environmental Protection Act, which will be completed by the end of the year, and will likely be adopted in the Assembly, i.e. in the procedure of the Assembly at the beginning of next year. Here, I'd like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79021	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection, the Honorable Representative of Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79022	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. At its 46th session held on 7 December the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Access to Information, Public Participation in Decision-making and Access to Justice in Environmental Affairs with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted to the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 30 November 2006, with a proposal to comply with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall adopt the proposed Law by an urgent procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposed Law as the home working body. In his opening statement, the proposing representative pointed out that on 25 June 1998 the Republic of Croatia signed the said Convention and this ratification confirms a commitment to openness and free access to information in the environment, public participation in environmental decision-making, and access to justice in environmental matters. The relevant regulations provide a sufficient framework for the implementation of the Convention with the necessary interventions by adopting a new Environmental Protection Act and its basis under the regulations. The Committee discussed the need to replace the original in English in the text of the translation of the Convention in English in Article 9(1) in the first subparagraph of Article 3 with the word "unjust" in the words "incorrect". In the second subparagraph of Article 9 of that Article, the words "supervised" should also be deleted in the second subparagraph: "judgment" should be deleted. The Committee therefore proposed an amendment to the text of the translation of the Convention into the Croatian language with which the proposaling representative agreed. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian law the adoption of this Act. Mr. Vice President, with this report, the Committee shall be attached in writing and amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79023	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, the distinguished representative Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79024	The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Access to Information, Public Participation, Decision-making and Access to Justice in Environmental Affairs, as this Convention comprehensively addresses important issues from environmental protection powers which ensure public access to information, participation in decision-making and access to justice in environmental matters. This Convention shall regulate in detail the obligations of the States which ratified the Convention with regard to the division of environmental information, the involvement of the public in the process of making decisions relevant to the environment, and by taking legislative and other measures to facilitate access to environmental information, participation of the public in early stages in the process of taking environmental decisions and access to justice in the event of infringement of those rights. The Convention promotes citizens' responsibilities towards the environment and ensures the active role of citizens and associations in the field of environmental protection in environmental decision-making. The States which ratified the Convention shall submit regular reports on the implementation of the Convention. The control mechanisms and sanctions for implementing the provisions of the Convention shall be provided for. I would point out that the Republic of Croatia, by the Law on the right to access information that has been passed since 2003 as a general regulation, has provided every natural and legal person with the right to access environmental information kept by public authorities or by someone else. In the field of environmental protection, the provisions of the laws are implemented by the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction using the most modern information technology, and as you know it is a press, it is television, as well as the website of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and, of course, all other means available to various publications, magazines and reports and all that can be provided to the public in a modern way. In the legal system in the field of environmental protection, the Republic of Croatia has an appropriate obligation to inform the public and to participate in the public in the protection of the environment. These issues are detailed by the Environmental Protection Act, the Law on Spatial Planning and other laws governing environmental issues such as the Law on Air, on soil, on water, on sea, on climate, plant and animal life, on cultural heritage. Those regulations shall be carried out by the public authorities of the Republic of Croatia, who, under the provisions of the State Administration System Act, are obliged to provide information, notices and instructions to citizens and legal persons and to provide reports and to inform the public about the performance of the business of their body's work by means of public information or other appropriate means. With regard to public participation in deciding on environmental issues, our legislation, primarily those governing environmental issues, allows for the implementation of this Convention, but provided that our Environmental Protection Act is in line with European legislation, and primarily with two directives, and this Directive on the right to access information and the Directive on public participation. By adopting this Act, the Republic of Croatia undertakes to provide additional resources in the national budget for the implementation of the Convention. The Ministry of Environmental Protection estimates that it will increase the volume of business both at national and regional level and at local level, which will require further employment and training of new personnel, investment in equipment and space. Most of the costs of implementing the Convention will relate to the provision of access to information rights, while the costs for public participation in environmental decision-making and the right to access to justice in environmental matters will depend on the scope of the public’s request for participation as well as the number of complaints. Part of the funding for the implementation of the Convention, in particular at regional and local level, will be able to be provided by international programmes and assistance and international funds. By ratifying this Convention, which has been ratified by 39 countries, as well as by the European Union and which entered into force on 30 October 2001, the Republic of Croatia would at the level of the United Nations and the European Economic Commission confirm its commitment to openness and free access to environmental information as well as ensuring public participation in environmental matters and access to justice in accordance with world standards, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will therefore support the adoption of this Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79025	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79026	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In front of the Croatian People's Party club, I would like to say that we will absolutely support the Archduke Convention and it is for all praise. We are, in principle, not discussing the content of the Convention itself today, we accept it or do not accept it, but it would be a good thing that today all the clubs devote a few minutes to the implementation of the Convention itself because it is essential to realize what is in that Convention, so let me perhaps just a few words on the subject. First of all, this is indeed a comprehensive international legal document that allows not only public access, but also enables citizens to participate in the decision-making process with all information in the field of environmental protection. And what the Secretary of State said certainly requires that we try to ensure that one legal protection of those citizens who eventually do not receive this information is provided to see how to ensure that by means of judicial or administrative measures at their disposal they finally get that information. So, the convention goes absolutely in favour of our citizens to get all relevant information that they are interested in but even more important is this segment I would say which particularly underlines the role of civil society in protecting the environment and the right of all citizens' associations to come to this information. What is not said here, and what is often the way our businessmen fear will also have to share certain business secrets that are not true. That's what we have to say. That's not true. All companies are obliged to provide data on emissions to air, water, soil, etc., but citizens of pardon business entities are heavily protected by this Convention. Just let me find it on page 10. I wrote it down myself. Therefore, the application for environmental information may be rejected if it is confidential business, industrial information to protect legal, economic interest. That's what to say. That's what's important to say. Of course it has nothing to do with the show, we have to talk about the show, we have to have this information, and we have to have the possibility that every citizen and every association, every company, anyone interested in it can get that information. What we at the Croatian People's Party Club noticed during our debate on this proposal is the following. I'd like to try to give the secretary of state some questions, so in the final word he can help us with that. In fact, the first question that has arisen is and we know how important the local and regional communities are in the realisation of the ARHUS Convention, we're wondering if you've been in the period of '98. The year we signed here 8 years ago had an opportunity with the Union of Cities, with the county community to discuss the details of the implementation of this Convention because there is a large part of the task on them? We here if we accept and ratify that convention we know that we transfer a large number of obligations to their shoulders. Secondly, is it because in the opening section on the assessment of the funds necessary for the implementation of the law, did the Ministry of Finance consider decentralising the funds precisely for the same reason that local and regional levels would not be in a position that they were not financially capable of providing certain items in this Convention? Third, what will the government do to inform citizens and citizens' associations of their rights from tomorrow when we ratify this convention? I think it is important to give this information in an adequate way to all those who are interested in having access to all relevant information that they are interested in from tomorrow. The fourth question will be the regular annual meetings of all signatories of this Convention. We're wondering who's going to be part of this team of ours, our delegation who's going to go to these meetings, are these people just outside the ministry, or is there someone in front of our Assembly Committee on Environmental Protection? I think it's important that we take this ratification here today as a Parliament, and it would be very good for us at the club that the president of our environmental protection committee decides who would be in that delegation. I don't think that would be bad. The fifth question, is it possible that the conclusions that will be prepared on a regular basis and will possibly be referred to the secretary of this UN Economic Commission for Europe, can we agree here today, as one of the conclusions that a copy of this report is regularly received by the Parliamentary Committee on Environmental Protection, so our colleagues on the committee will say whether we should also go to plenary sessions with some points if we see that the implementation of this Convention does not go as planned because that is the point of what we are doing today, to agree on the implementation of the Convention, on its implementation? And we fully agree with colleagues from the Environmental Protection Committee that there are a number of bad details in the text and translation itself, inadequate, inaccurate translations, I am some of them and noted and also in the introductory part of the text. Here, the introductory part of the text on page four, also the fourth row again, especially the local administration and self-government. It happens to us all the time. It's funny that people who write such bill don't know about the structure of our country. Local administration, that's ridiculous. It keeps repeating itself, and in itself it's not good, it can't be. And on page 8 of the translation of the text itself, the body of state, regional and other administrations. Look at the original text in English so you'll see that it's no other administration, but other levels of government, right. He means local self-government. Thank you very much. So the HNS club will absolutely support but we ask you to make these adjustments and give us an answer to these questions that we have asked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79027	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative on behalf of the IDS club Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79028	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs! Let me say a few words on behalf of the IDS club about this issue. First, the IDS Club will support this proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Access to Information, Public Participation, Decision-making and Access to Justice in Environmental Affairs. The question of environmental protection is that most Croatian citizens have become one of the most important issues of life as a whole, and I want to believe that we will leave our heirs an environment in which they will be able to live healthyly. The Convention on Access to Information, public participation in environmental decision-making and access to justice in environmental matters is the most comprehensive international legal document ensuring public access to information, environmental participation and access to justice in environmental matters. This international legal instrument very detailed and comprehensively regulates the obligations of States to share information on the environment and to involve the public in the process of making decisions relevant to the environment, and by taking legislative and other measures to facilitate access to information on the environment, public participation in various stages in the process of making environmental decisions and access to justice in the event of the exercise of those rights. The Parties are obliged to provide regular reports on the implementation of the Convention, provided for control mechanisms and sanctions for the implementation of the provisions of the Convention. The Republic of Croatia signed a convention on access to information on public participation in decision-making and access to justice on environmental issues on June 25th 1998 at the 4th Ministerial Conference "Environment for Europe" held in Denmark. The Convention has so far been confirmed by 39 countries of the European Community. This environmental protection information system directly and specifically upgrades the existing information system which has previously been signed, prescribed by the Environmental Protection Act, based on the Environmental Information System Regulation and its system components such as air, water, soil, sea etc. etc. The Convention promotes the responsibility of citizens towards the environment, ensuring the active role of citizens in environmental decision making, as it enables all members of society to better fulfil new duties individually and associations in the field of protection and improvement of the environment for the welfare of current and future generations. What is particularly important is the Convention also recognised the key role that NGOs play in the field of environmental protection as an important factor in public opinion on environmental issues. Interested in the critical awareness of the public, he is a part of the development of democracy. I repeat, the IDS Club will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79029	Thank you. Finally, State Secretary Mr. Ruzhinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79030	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I would sincerely thank the committees and clubs of MPs for having supported the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Archduke Convention, and I would especially like to thank the remarks we received on the text, we will certainly try to improve the text on the occasion of its publication. It is clear that we will accept the amendments made to Article 9. The Spatial Editing Committee. What I might just say is that it is clear and important to point out that business secrets will not be published and that this is part of the one that is given in the text itself. As for the debate and meeting of stakeholders, especially the local community, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that yesterday, just yesterday, was held so-called. a workshop where representatives of the local community have just been invited through cooperation with the Dutch government and assistance from the Dutch government and are familiar with the provisions of the Archduke Convention and the rights and obligations they have in that part. With regard to local communities, however, they are familiar with the costs, potential costs and opportunities they must provide, but the funds are secured in the state budget for the next year of 470,000. So we have precisely allocated funds that will be spent on promoting all those things that are related to the Archduke Convention. NGOs are also involved in workshops in the debate and in the work related to their rights. I must say here that we are one of the few working groups that are involved in negotiations with the European Union and representatives of NGOs in this work so that they are fully aware of what is waiting for them, but also of what is going on in this plan, so through the education of the workshop in the talks with NGOs, we are working with NGOs and we are working on their rights, and we are also working on not only NGOs, but even with the economy in the preparation of legislative proposals I have a committee working with their associations so that I think that this part is really mutually beneficial to both ours and theirs. Your proposal, distinguished representative Doric, to include the Parliamentary Committee on Environmental Protection and in the reports, and in the work of the Convention, the Conference of Parties, I think we can only welcome and in any case if the representatives of the Committee wish to join you later and at the Conference of the Parties you will be welcome and we will report it regularly and as soon as a number of participants are involved in this system which is extremely responsible, but also complicated, there will be results of work in this area and better. Thank you again very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79031	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79032	Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Access to Information to Public Participation in Decision-making and Access to Justice in Environmental Affairs. The amendment of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection has been accepted by the Proposer. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 95 votes in favour and 1 abstention, the law with the proposed amendment was passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79033	We're moving on to the next 14th point. - Final proposal of the Law on the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 593 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on European Integration. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Secretary of State Ante Zigman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79034	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The government of the Republic of Croatia proposes the Law on the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The current HBOR Act was passed back in 1992 and, in fact, the Government has also adopted a series of amendments that took place in 1992 until today, the Government therefore proposes to draft a new law since this old law has been amended several times and complemented in '93, '95. And '96. And therefore, because of the nomotechnical position, the termological and structural arrangements of the law, the Government proposes a new HBOR Act to the Parliament. HBOR, as we know, is given a number of tasks of fundamental importance for the restoration and development of the Republic of Croatia, primarily by the implementation of the lending of projects for the reconstruction and development of the Croatian economy, the lending and reconstruction of apartments and family houses and infrastructure facilities, the lending of export operations, therefore support for exporters in Croatia, support for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, as well as the provision of export jobs from non-commercial risks. Through the previous action since 1992, HBOR has grown into one of the holders of reconstruction and development in the Republic of Croatia and that the large economies that have suffered from the war have both small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. It should be noted here that HBOR is truly fully supporting its activities, fully supporting small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who are often in an unequal position in commercial banks and the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development here have been fully at the service of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who, as we know, are one stable core of the Croatian economy. The 1995 Law amending and supplementing the 1995 HBOR was tasked with carrying out export business insurance from non-commercial risks and with activity in the field of export insurance, HBOR began in September '98. A year. Therefore, Croatian exports are also as a very important segment of the Croatian economy to get support from the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development and have support in drawing up their plans, special plans and business plans when going abroad. The signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and its ratification of a certain change in the field of competition protection also covers the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Therefore, this law does, in a certain way, harmonize business in accordance with the State aid Act. Therefore, in carrying out HBOR lending operations, the HBOR has coordinated its activities, lending programmes with the State aid regulation or the criteria set out in Article 70(2). Stabilisation and Association Agreements by adopting a Regulation on basic conditions of financing of individual target groups. On the basis of that decision, the Agency has also adopted a decision approving such a Regulation and a way of working. Therefore, by adopting and applying the HBOR Regulation, the HBOR has coordinated its business in the lending part with the State aid regulations following the amendment of certain HBOR lending programmes. In view of the obligation already made earlier in the laws, thus applying the rules of the legal property of the European Union in the field of competition taken over by the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and before entering into full membership of the European Union, and adapting the business of export insurance to the applicable regulations and internationally assumed obligations of the Republic of Croatia, the need to therefore adapt the legislative framework of the Law on the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, or aligning it with the positive regulations and internationally assumed obligations of the Republic of Croatia. The coordination of HBOR’s business with the acquis is also necessary because of the obligations arising from accession negotiations under which the need to adapt business to the acquis of the European Union has been established in as many as three chapters, in Chapter 8, competition, Chapter 20 of entrepreneurship and industrial policy and Chapter 30 of external relations. In addition to the previously described international commitments made to the conditional adjustment of the changes to the existing HBOR status and position, some existing legal solutions that are not properly regulated and, as a result of the regulation of a few unregulated issues from the part-round business of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development are also needed. The new proposal of the HBOR Act lays down provisions on the guarantee of the Republic of Croatia for HBOR obligations in such a way that the guarantee of the Republic of Croatia is defined as unconditional, irrevocable and payable on the first call and that the obligation of the Republic of Croatia as a guarantee is solidarity and unlimited. The new solution also makes it more clear that the guarantee is valid under the law itself without the need to issue a special guarantee document. It should be noted that by amending this law, the HBOR Supervisory Board consists of 9 members, which is the same as the existing law that contains five ministers in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the finance minister, the economy minister, the remaining three ministers are members of the Supervisory Board and the other three ministers are appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Such a solution also seeks to avoid the non-compliance of the law in the event of a change in organisation or the name of ministries, which was the case and in this sense, such a bill will avoid disagreements and misunderstandings. The remaining members of the Supervisory Board as well as so far the president of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and three representatives of the Croatian Parliament. The proposal for a law is proposed by the Government by an urgent procedure since it is a matter of harmonisation with the European Union's rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79035	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79036	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Honorable Mr. Representatives! This bank must have fulfilled its purpose. The bank was launched, I read in an explanation, in 1992. It must have been something new then. Clearly, it was a time of war but also a time when 100% of the banking system was "controlled" by the Croatian state or Croatian government which was somehow good because it was financed by the defence then and it was bad because banks were in some way self-services and almost all ended up in the recovery of Privredna, Rijeka, Split and 40 of them afterwards, I clearly count here and savings companies ended up in bankruptcy and people without property and despair. Today, 2006. 94% of the banking market is in the hands of foreigners. Our banking system in the '90s in the early 2000s was rescheduled with 13 billion kunas, sold, literally sold for 7 billion kuna. What controls at this time the Republic of Croatia or the Croatian Government, the Government, the Parliament, are the Croatian National Bank, clearly it is not a classical bank, it is a postal bank and it is the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which is also not a classical bank. The activity of our banks is about 300 billion kuna, which will say that we have left these 300 billion kunas to foreigners for 7 billion kunas as the core capital of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development today. Fortunately, banks are no longer self-serving. Today, they are highly profitable institutions and, for example, in two years this 2006 and 2007, they will make a profit for how many 90s and early 2000s have been sold. Or bought. Likewise today, no one needs to worry on the other hand that the money he deposits in our banks through a possible bank bankruptcy won't reach him. It just doesn't exist. In this context, for example, the position of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development is certainly even more important or interesting. At times when the country is thinking about privatisation and the last national bank, which is the Post Bank of Croatia exists, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development in some way becomes a matter of national pride. Having in Croatia means having something that might look like a national bank. I said the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development is not a typical bank. She's a much more comfortable bank or under quotes bank, someone will say much more privileged bank. But it is also a risk because in some ways the political hand is an extended or extended factor in political influence. This may be bad in some ways, but it should be recognised in 2006 that business banking policy, which marked the 1990s, cannot simply be run in this country. If the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development were not a typical bank, it would be more appropriate for the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development to bear witness to this Article 23.2. which literally says that the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development does not apply the rules on the issue and maintenance of mandatory reserves with the central bank, as well as restrictions on the scope and dynamics, the increase in the placement, regulation and structure of the part of the state administration and the regulation and on civil servants and officials, the rules on the conclusion of credit and guarantee transactions of extra-financial users, the Insurance Act as well as other regulations governing the relevant matter. So you don't apply a mandatory reserve which will say that you can be at the beginning of 50% more favourable with credit placements than other banks in the Republic of Croatia. The rules on officials and officials are not applicable, so the director of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development would not have had three times the salary of the Minister of Finance. It does not apply to them by the Insurance Act and so on and so on. Then how can that matter bear the P.Z.E. mark? means European law? I don't know. But that's none of my business. What is interesting among other things is Article 10 which speaks about business traffic. So item 2: The activities of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development are primarily quoted as saying: "Financing the restoration and development of the Croatian economy. 2. Funding of infrastructure, promotion of exports, support for small and medium-sized enterprises, 5. encouraging and protecting the environment, insurance of exports of Croatian goods and services from non-market risks. In order to carry out the activities referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development shall approve loans and other placements, the issue of banking and other guarantees. It closes insurance contracts, resecuritisation contracts. It invests in debt and equity instruments. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It's a done quote. So that's, that's Article 10 and paragraph 2 and paragraph 3. Today, the bank no longer monitors the reconstruction as it may have been dominantly done in 1990. It is more monitored by the infrastructure of our local self-government which is certainly good, but it would also be good if we could see how much of the guarantees were protested only this year 2006 or how many were there in a previous period, whether it was about shipbuilding, whether it was about tourism, whether it was about agriculture, whether it was about industry, small entrepreneurship, and then to see who in this country is preferred by the bank, or how many loans that ultimately, under quotes, or guarantees must be taken over by the Croatian State for non-payment. It seems to me that about 250 million kunas are being protested annually. At least according to that budget data. Only if we could get that information would we be able to speak in full in this bank. Clearly, someone will notice that this is primarily about the Law on the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. That this is not about the annual financial report of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development which should also come before the Parliament. That HABOR is not a classical bank also testifies this Article 12. Financial business, which literally says: "Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development does not operate with the aim of achieving profits. Under 2. "The profit of the business year is allocated to the Croatian Bank's refurbishment and development reserves." Under 3. When, at the request of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Bank for Reconstruction and Development approves a placement under market conditions, the Republic of Croatia will compensate Croatia from the State Budget for the recovery and development of the difference to the level of income that would be achieved under market conditions. The decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia with a request referred to in the preceding Article, that is, paragraph 4, Article 12 must also contain a provision on the amount, manner and time of payment of the income difference. So this is kind of a bank that's more like those banks that we had during socialism when they were under a state pass but no matter what its place today in our economy has become irreplaceable. She's become recognizable today. The role is certainly positive because part of the burden is transferred to the budget so whoever receives the loan whether it is tourism, whether it is shipbuilding, whether it is agriculture can count on more favourable credit arrangements but it would also be interesting to see how much it is present in the regions and which branches do not manage to service the loans obtained. I know when there was a debate about the state budget that there was not a single company in Istria that had not properly settled all its obligations. What should certainly be supported to put more emphasis on the future than this has ever been on small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. In fact, there is no risk of these large public systems such as shipbuilding, tourism, agriculture, industries that have remained state-owned. But it is clear that even these national branches, whether it is agriculture, tourism with an emphasis on shipbuilding, must not be neglected in any way, regardless of the fact that any placement in these branches is in advance faced with no small risk. All I said was this is not a report on the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. This is a bill of law. The bank has positive results and there is no reason not to stand behind this bill. I guess the other clubs will support it, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79037	Thank you. The word has on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club a respected representative of Shima. And I'm sorry, correcting an incorrect quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79038	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, counterpart Kajin said in his presentation that 94% of the Croatian banking system's capital is foreign owned. That quote is not correct. In particular, it should be pointed out for our public that according to our ministry and the Croatian National Bank's foreign ownership is 81% of the capital and 19% are owned by business entities and the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79039	Thank you. The word on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community has a respected representative of Šima Prtnječa.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79040	Thank you very much, once again, and here is how colleague Cain said this is not a report on HBOR but rather a new law, but there must be a few sentences or words in the introduction of HBOR's function so far so that we can conclude that this support is really necessary and necessary. Namely, HBOR was founded under the law of '92. A year. He had a role model in Germany's development bank. It means that Germany is also founded and many other European countries are based on similar banks. She then made a newspaper on the Croatian financial market and certainly at different stages of her work and amendments to the laws that followed so far she took on other functions and from the refurbishment function as well as the name says in this war and post-war phase to function, complete functions of development in the public system, crediting entrepreneurship, lending and export insurance and many other functions that weigh in her function today. The Bank has fully successfully performed these functions, and what needs to be pointed out today is that at some point it played a key role in the development of Croatian society when banks were destabilised, when capital was very difficult and unfavourable especially in world relations, gradual growth and development of Croatian ratings, the financial rating this bank provided both favourable financial resources and thus actually executed the function for which it was established. It should also point out once again that this bank, in addition to its core function, performs that part of the banking function because it is often a source of financial resources to smaller banks which also then perform that function of crediting and developing small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, and other banking functions in the lending of population and other functions. Therefore, HBOR is indeed for this function for which it is founded by this moment we can say with pleasure this function entirely and secure. However, both at different stages of the development of our society and because of the need to screening and agreeing this chapter financially with the European Union should be harmonised and some solutions in a different and new way, and also set up some dilemmas and some doubts. First of all, first of all, before I move on to concrete legislative proposals and solutions, you should also ask the question here once again, and thus try to answer it that the fundamental problem when this bank and other banks took over or did not want to take over better say in the first stage direct lending of small and medium-sized enterprises. The basic problem of guarantee guarantee was raised small, especially in the reconstruction, and small entrepreneurs mostly did not have their own guarantees. Therefore, a Croatian Guarantee Agency was formed which I can now say that regardless of the assessments my opinion was that it did not fully satisfy the function of why it was formed. The results we wanted to achieve in our society were not achieved, so in that part, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development at one stage took over direct lending but insufficiently again with the goals we wanted to achieve. So this doubt and this issue, which is not directly related to this law, remains a problem which should in some way continue to try to address satisfaction and in order to achieve a faster development of especially small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and especially in areas of particular national interest or how we like to say this from the even development of the Croatian state. Therefore, this is the objective and instrument that should then be provided through HBOR and other banks, i.e. through the Croatian Guarantee Agency. In order to develop and meet new needs, the Bank also had to increase its core capital. One of the fundamental provisions of this amendment is to increase the duplication of core capital. It is clear why it can meet the growing needs and to meet that function. In the second part in which the bank performs that function, we can say that so far the Croatian State and then the bank has brought its credit programmes in line with these legal solutions, mostly until now, as it is now in the final phase or we can already say and coordinate the support issue because it is one of the fundamental issues of these support. In particular, we see the European Union’s remarks on the lending of shipbuilding of different forms regardless of the public matter directly or indirectly and all of the support, the forms of support we have. Therefore, the HBOR has already agreed on the support programme and will have to do it by the end of the negotiations and bring it fully into line. The second area to be harmonised is export insurance, especially those commercial, non-commercial risks and functions that the bank is especially in the incentive of exports, which we have modestly because of the structure of the share of exports that we have. The bank has also made export incentives possible but these risks arise commercially, non-commercial risks in which the bank must also take one part of the risks. Of course, we do not list the risks of one or the other and which are mainly in the field of the European Union and the OECD countries. And those other risks I could say of higher forces or these unnecessary risks, different political risks in other countries that arise. Here are the risks and that function of ensuring these risks should be fully taken over by the bank. In order to be able to take this, another question is raised, and in the case of guarantees, state guarantees, of course, we are not opposed to knowing exactly for years, by regions, by areas of what kind of guarantees have been issued and which were less risky, whether internal or external. And in this sense, the guarantees of the Croatian state are proposed to arrange something different, so let me just deliberately quote this guarantee provision as a whole. It says that the Republic of Croatia's guarantees for HBOR's obligations are specified in a way that the RH guarantee is defined as unconditionally irrevocable and payable on the first call and that the RH's obligation as a guarantee is solidarity and unlimited. This means ultimately translated if we want HBOR to actually be unable to get into a situation so that it can eventually be blocked or lost its function so as not to endanger other segments of its action. Therefore, this guarantee that is regulated in a different way will enable us to perform the HBOR function better which is secured. Now, shortly after the opening explanation of the need and the increase of the underlying capital, it should be said that, with this proposed amendment, they propose changes in the composition of the Supervisory Board, although they have been defined in the same way as they have been so far, and I, of course, point out this on purpose for possible doubts about it. It is difficult to define, because each government has its right to define both the structure and the government as it thinks, and depending on the state's development needs as it thinks it is most needed. It is therefore possible that, when inauguration of each Government, the HBOR Act should be amended in order to establish the composition of the Supervisory Board. Therefore, this solution, which is now proposed by the government to propose or appoint 5 ministers within the HBOR Supervisory Board, has tried to be resolved in a way that is so far defined by assuming that these two will not change, that within them they are acting as finance ministers and economy ministers. Although when it comes to the Minister of Economy, it can always contain today's function, and possibly all sectors of agriculture, industry, tourism, I don't know what else. It is therefore assumed that the Ministry of Economy, which has most of its activities, will be in this capacity. And it is said now that the government will appoint three other ministers, assuming that the three ministers should be the one whose work is part-rounded will most refer to the HBOR's role in the programme of crediting development around export support, etc. Therefore, these ministers should be in that line of work. And then there they come, and I think they're going in and they're going in and they're going in and they're going in and they're going in and they're going in and they're going in and they're I guess again in function that there should be Committees on Finance and Economy and I don't know what the third committee would be. But they are named here at the Parliament. And the one for which it is proposed, and so far it has been to be president of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, although here I and the composition of the Finance Committee have been appointed in a similar way so that external institutions have their representatives from the Institute of Finance, from the trade unions, from chambers, from whom they have their representatives there. And I like to say in a joke, and when are we going to have our own representatives with them and try to interact? But apparently it remains for some other time. And it is now proposed that the president of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce be in office as part of the HBOR Supervisory Board because there is also a harmonisation of the development programme which is the common interests of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian State, i.e. the Government and the HBOR in this part. It should also be pointed out that, through its work, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development in the period expected to be harmonised fully, so that this law needs to be completed in line with the negotiations with the European Union in order to enable this area to be fully implemented when we finish negotiations or screening for the harmonisation of this financial chapter next year. Therefore, these amendments that are proposed here are supported and we believe that at this moment, given the whole series of previous amendments, to the function that the HBOR now has, to the harmonisation that is under way and which follows this law can satisfy for that function, for which the HBOR exists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79041	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Nevenka Majdenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79042	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The need to amend and supplement the Law on the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development stems from the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to bring its legislation into line with the acquiss of the European Union, i.e. the adjustment of the legislative framework for the operation of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development with the positive regulations and international commitments. It should be noted that, in cooperation with the Competition Protection Agency, HBOR harmonised the conditions of the lending programme at the beginning of this year in order to adapt its activities with the provisions of the legal property of the European Union. In addition to the commitments made and the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, this law should also be amended because of new legal solutions in the area of attractive support, and in view of the lack of regulation of matters from the part-line business of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development so far. The participation of HBOR representatives in the process of an analytical review of the legislation, screening has identified the need to harmonise this law and in the part of export insurance against non-commercial risks. Since its beginning of action, HBOR has been and has remained the holder of the reconstruction and development of the Republic of Croatia since 1992. But as the needs for the lending of reconstruction and development projects have changed over the years, legal regulations of these changes have also had to be harmonised. As a result, this law has already had 4 amendments and additions and these proposed are now poets. I think it's good to say that from 1992 to 2005, from the HBOR, for which we have data, it's approved 50 billion kuna loans and guarantees. As far as I'm concerned, I also think it's necessary to say what HBOR did in 2005. In 2005, the Croatian economy was granted 47 billion kuna by 44% more compared to the previous year and the biggest increase for credit approval during 2005 was recorded by the small and medium-sized economy sector, a craftsman who approved 694 million kuna, which is 206% higher than the previous year. In the structure of funds invested in the economy in 2005, which, I say, we have data on lending economic activities is 31%, loans to small and medium-sized enterprises 15%, loans to infrastructure projects 3% and financing exports 51%. Important newspapers in the new law refer to a gradual increase in core capital to the amount of 7 billion kuna. In accordance with the applicable law, the core capital of HABOR amounts to 3 billion and 700 million kuna. By the end of 2006, the Republic of Croatia will fully pay HABOR's core capital under the applicable law. In view of the role of HABOR in the development of the Croatian economy and in order to ensure further growth of HABOR assets and development objectives of lending to the Croatian economy through encouraging interest rates, it is proposed to increase the core capital of the Croatian Bank for the restoration and development to 7 billion kuna. The increase in core capital and further growth of HABOR activities will allow for a balanced economic development of all parts of the Republic of Croatia and for the creation of new jobs. It is determined that the basic capital is paid by the Republic of Croatia. The draft law, unlike the applicable law instead of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as deciding in determining dynamics, is determined by the Republic of Croatia by the payment of basic capital. This is essentially brought into line with the HABOR Act with existing regulations, which are based on the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Croatian Parliament. In addition, the proposal for a law also states that the core capital of HABOR constitutes one business share which is indivisible, non-transportable and cannot be the subject of pledges. This confirms the current situation and in the future protects 100% state property over HABOR. What the law also regulates is, precisely, provisions on guarantees from the Republic of Croatia for HABOR's obligations. In particular, it is established that the HABOR carries out its activities directly and indirectly through business, banks and other legal persons, thus equating both ways of carrying out its activities. Since 1992, therefore, from the HABOR draft to the present day, HABOR has grown into a state bank that has carried out almost half of its activities directly, i.e., approves loans and provides other banking services directly to end-users. In view of the above, it is proposed to equalise both methods of carrying out activities in the legal text. In accordance with existing practice, it is also determined that HABOR does its jobs in the Republic of Croatia and abroad, as it does, for example, by lending to customers of domestic exporters. It is found that HABOR’s placements must be secured in banking operations in the usual manner. It is also established that the HABOR obligation to manage risks in such a way as to minimise them by further emphasising the application of the banking business principle. In addition, the Law also regulates precise choice, appointment of the Supervisory Board of Administration. It has been established that the Supervisory Board numbers 9 members, the composition of the Supervisory Board has been found to be 5 members of the Ministers in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, with the minister in charge of finance and the minister in charge of the economy mandatory members of the Supervisory Board, and the remaining 3 ministers appointed the Government of the Republic of Croatia as responsible for tourism, development, agriculture, environmental protection or construction. Such a solution aims to avoid any discrepancies of the Bill's proposal, i.e. the composition of the Supervisory Board in the event of a change in the portfolio between ministries, merger or separation of ministries, or a change of name. The remaining members of the Supervisory Board are as so far the president of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and 3 representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Moreover, from the scope of the HABOR activity, the reconstruction of the housing fund has been deleted, which has already passed into the portfolio of state administrations and the financing of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs has been added, as well as the protection of the environment. Since, as I have already said, there have been more amendments and additions to this Act here I propose, i.e. I accept the adoption of a new law on the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, whose degree of validity would remain the existing law. This would essentially, substantively, termologically and structurally and nomotechnically regulate the existing Law and adapt legislatively to the acquiss of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79043	Thank you. The word has a esteemed representative of the Crown of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79044	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. We are just ahead of us of the Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which is suitable for the time and development of the economy, as well as the role that the Croatian Parliament and Government have set for this bank to pay due respect and gratitude for justifying its current business by justifying the reason for its existence and for raising many small economies and developing to the European level, thus raising the level and a large number of new employees. To point out just something that would actually be the confirmation of a modern legislation of normative activity because it was finally understood and understood that the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development should function as a special financial institution, which was previously regulated in the Law of 92. Because it is a state-owned investment bank which is primarily subject to the provisions of the applicable Act as a special law, and only then the Bank Act. Therefore, it has a legal personality of public law, as some European countries have managed, and special regulations regulate the work of the Croatian National Bank, Croatian Radio and others. So it's also in Europe, special financial institutions are like e.g. "Credit... , as the Hungarian Development Bank, which ranks in the order of comprehensible banks with comprehensible business and does not stand out in particular. [[The speaker speaks foreign language, not understood.]] What should also be said is that, unless otherwise prescribed, public rights persons are not subject to bankruptcy or can cease liquidation under general rules. The founder, i.e. the Croatian Government, or the Croatian Parliament, is responsible for his activity. In particular, they point out in the business case that these are marketable, i.e. marketable risks, which are short-term and light commercial and political risks for a certain time, for about two years because such a way enables the Croatian Bank to restore and develop modern business precisely to realise that activity which is primarily and founded to finance the restoration and development of the Croatian economy, finance infrastructure, encourages exports, is given particular emphasis on the development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, fostering environmental protection and ensuring the export of Croatian goods and services from non-market risks. Of course, for one such business, it was also necessary to regulate the way in which activities and risk management were carried out directly and indirectly through business banks and other legal entities even established certain branches by equating activities both directly and indirectly. Financial business for the development of the Croatian economy through stimulating interest rates because the Croatian bank does not operate to deal with profits, therefore crediting individual entities and interest are also lower than that of the commercial one, with the difference being determined by the Government and ensuring its payment. According to the example, I reiterate that the KFU Act states that the joint representation of the administration is now binding and that binding statements are valid only if they are signed by two members of the administration. Of course, all this is possible only if the financial reports of the business audit are regular, up-to-date because the annual reports and explicates here are said to confirm that the Croatian Parliament, not the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in order to strengthen responsibility for those in this legislative body, for the implementation of those laws that we have set out to have the legal personality of public rights which we could easily control and target exactly what is most needed for the restoration and development of the Croatian economy, and among other things, to reiterate the development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, because without such a way, we would not have had small hotels, apartments family, because the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development has made such direct lending possible for both people, but who have shown themselves in their previous 20 or many years of tourism particularly on Croatian islands that such a reason is justified. Among other things, because of this legal personality, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development is not registered in the court register, and I would like to point out how valuable this Law proposal is to be adopted as soon as possible and allow the Croatian Bank and the restoration and development to continue to develop towards the development of the Croatian economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79045	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79046	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development was established by a special law as a state investment bank, established its founding capital and activity, further elaborated lending and export business, and established the authorities of the Habor and their powers. The law gave the Habor a number of tasks at the start of the day from the basic meaning for the restoration and development of the Republic of Croatia, primarily through the implementation of credits for reconstruction and development projects of the Croatian economy, the lending of renovations and the construction of apartments and family houses and infrastructure facilities, the lending of export transactions, as well as the insurance of export transactions from non-commercial risks. Of course, the tasks and obligations given to the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development and in 1992 followed those problems and needs that were then dominant in Croatia, which was primarily the need for reconstruction, the need to help those who had lost their homes, without facilities, the need to rebuild the infrastructure especially in the war-related areas. I can testify from my personal experience because in 1992 I was head of the Office for Reconstruction in the Municipality of Karlovac and just the first funds and the most significant funds that came in support of households to rebuild economic facilities, but as assistance for the restoration of infrastructure came through then the Croatian Credit Bank for Reconstruction and Development. From 1992 until today, Hubor has really grown into one of the holders of the reconstruction and development of the Croatian economy and that of the large economies that have been affected by the war and by both small, medium and private entrepreneurship. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the '95 Habor Act. Hubor was tasked with carrying out export business insurance from non-commercial, or political risks, and with activities in the field of export insurance,habor started in September 1998. I really think that we can conclude that Hubor has fully met all expectations, above all, in that segment of reconstruction of residential, economic facilities, in the restoration of infrastructure, but that Hubor has also been a very strong incentive to further develop the economy and Croatian exports. The signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Communities and their Member States obliged Croatia to bring existing legislation and regulations on the protection of competition with the acquis of the European Union. In view of the obligation to apply the rules of law of the European Union in the field of competition, the need to adapt the legislative framework of the activities of the Habor, i.e. to comply with the positive regulations and internationally assumed obligations of the Republic of Croatia, is imposed. The Republic of Croatia, as of October 2006, fully paid the share capital of 3 billion and 700 million kuna on the basis of the current HABOR Act. In order to ensure the continued planned growth of HABOR assets and to achieve the economic lending development objectives here, it is proposed to increase the core capital of HABOR from 3 billion to 700 million kuna to 7 billion kuna, therefore, almost double. It is also found that the core capital of HABOR cannot be shared, cannot be transferred or pawned, thus protecting 100% of the state ownership of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The new HABOR Law provides for provisions on the guarantee of the Republic of Croatia for HABOR obligations in such a way that the guarantee of Croatia is defined as unconditional, irrevocable and payable on the first call and that the obligation of the Republic of Croatia as a guarantee is solidarity and unlimited. HABOR's activities are arranged by monitoring the strategy and development objectives of the Republic of Croatia. Compared to the current law of the HABOR task, the reconstruction of the housing fund has been deleted, which has passed into the portfolio of state administrations and the financing of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and the protection of the environment that we hold as one of our priorities. I think we'll all agree that by now HABOR has fully implemented the law, you give him the assignments. I am convinced that this will also be the case in the future with double the underlying capital, and that is why I will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79047	Thank you. Finally, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79048	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I thank you for the debate on the Law on the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. So, by law as we have said we propose to regulate the situation and business of HABOR as the development and export banks of the Republic of Croatia, the position and composition of the supervisory board of the Bank and the management of the Bank for Reconstruction and Development, we increase the underlying capital to 7 billion kuna, which is actually planned to pay off in the budgets in the coming years. So this law proposes to increase to 7 billion, which represents an increase of 3 billion and 300 million kuna. The payment of core capital will be made out of State budget funds in the period from 2007-2019 with an estimated dynamic of around 215 million in 2007 and 250 million in other years. The harmonisation of course, what is also important to say about this law, therefore, is that the law is related to the harmonisation of transactions in accordance with the State Aid Act. This part of the coordination related to state support is also a harmonisation related to commitments made under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. This law also proposes to regulate the way and conditions of non-market risk insurance independently of the minimum domestic share, i.e. the largest export component and business of course HABOR on the banking principle. Why the law goes by emergency procedure and has a P.Z.E. code.? Therefore, because the HABOR Act is in line with the provisions of the primary sources of law of the European Union and the provisions of secondary sources of law, in particular the primary source of law, the Treaty establishing the European Community Articles 12, 87 and 88 and 89, and the provisions of secondary sources of law, such as Council Directive 29 of '98. the year on the adjustment of the basic provisions on export credit insurance for transactions with medium- and long-term coverage. Also, Council Directive 568 of '84. for years on reciprocal obligations of export credited organisations of Member States acting on behalf of or with its support. I would also like to point out that the government will accept the amendment of the Committee on Law. And here, I thank everyone for the debate about this Law on the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79049	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79050	Final proposal of the Law on the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The amendment of the Legislative Committee was accepted by the applicant. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 90 votes in favour and 4 abstentions, the final bill was adopted along with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79051	We move to the next item of the agenda - Final proposal of the Household Activity Act - second reading, P.Z.E. No. 499 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In the case of laws, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to Articles 155 to 157. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction, the Committee on Tourism and the Committee on European Integration. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? State Secretary Micic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79052	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So, the draft final proposal of the Household Activity Act, the reasons and objectives that we want to achieve by adopting this law, so a total of 10 amendments to the current law is why we are going into the new law although some solutions are I would say even most of them remain the same as in the previous law. Harmonisation with the legal acquis of the European Union in removing existing barriers to the free provision of services in the section relating to the provision of catering services of citizens in households or tenants, the arrangement of working hours of catering facilities, changes in the structure of accommodation facilities and increased professionalisation of activities, is about 45% of the accommodation facilities available to Croatian tourism is in the households of citizens, combating the gray economy and working on black, putting into the legal frameworks of the so far uninvolved and present ways of carrying out activities or abandoning those that no longer correspond to the development of the Croatian economy. Protection of competition, facilitating the business of the caterer, greater protection of minors and consumers as a beneficiary of catering services and too little criminal penalties that have been increased in the new law. Other amendments that the law adopts are the removal of the conditions of Croatian citizenship for the provision of catering services of citizens in the household, in the rural household i.e. the citizens of the Member States of the European Union and the citizens of the European Economic Area who are the owners of real estate in the Republic of Croatia will be subject to the law in that part from the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership of the European Union unless otherwise governed by an international contract in force in the Republic of Croatia. It is now an Agreement on the Stabilisation and Association of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union and the difference between the first reading of the bill which provided for the application of the law to foreigners from the date of its adoption. So here we have introduced an amendment from the date of Croatia's accession to the European Union. The limit of 10 rooms or 20 beds that citizens can rent is reduced to 7 rooms and 14 beds, respectively. In camp with 10 accommodation units and 30 persons... at 20, on seven accommodation units, or twenty-five total in the camp. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The working time of the catering facilities is regulated by the law that the representative body of the local self-government unit can extend the maximum working hours from 06 to 24 hours for the catering facilities of groups of restaurants and bars for two hours or for the purpose of organising the appropriate celebrations of New Year's Eve, weddings, prom parties and so on and so on. Major fines for infringements, especially for the illegal operation or provision of services, have been reduced before the term of office, for non-compliance with the working time of the catering facilities, and it is proposed that the monitoring measure of the catering facility will not be implemented exceptionally if the host is not implemented within two days of the adoption of the oral decision on the prohibition of the provision of catering services to the economic inspector evidence of the payment of the fine amount of 30 thousand kuna in favour of the state budget. That was added, therefore, to this final bill of law. The supervision of the ban on serving or allowing the consumption of alcohol to people under the age of 18 also be carried out by police officers of the Ministry of Interior. The catering activity but under special conditions can, as so far in the current law, provide public institutions operating national parks and parks of nature and catering educational institutions and student and student homes. The bill also provides for the Croatian Federation of Férian Hostels, the Croatian Mountain Federation and its members, hunting associations, theatre institutions and in the draft final proposal also included fishing associations, associations of members of national minorities and health institutions. Healing facilities. The organisation of resorts other than children's resorts is proposed to fully commercialise. Obligations shall be prescribed to the host to ensure guests at accommodation facilities from the consequences of an accident for the protection of consumers, the establishment of a business manager shall be deleted, and, unlike the proposal for a law of erasure is an obligation to supply the certification of norms to the State Inspectorate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79053	Thank you. The Committee on Legislative, Economic, Development and Reconstruction? The Tourism Committee? Rapporteur, respected representative Milan Meden. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79054	Mr. President of the Parliament, Secretary of State, representatives of the government, honourable MPs! At the 37th session held on 7 December this year, the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Final Proposal for a Law on Attending Activity submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 30 November this year. The Committee on Tourism held a debate on the final proposal of the Household Activity Act on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 69. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament were led by the Vice-President of the Committee. The opening statement on the reasons why the new Household Act is proposed was submitted by Mr Zdenko Mičić, Secretary of State for Tourism, as well as the proposals adopted in the debate at the meeting of the Tourism Committee. In their opening statement, the representatives of the committee pointed out that the adoption of a new law... and, in particular, taking into account its alignment with the acquiss of the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The proposed law is, in fact, a fundamental law governing the issue of carrying out catering activities, which are also a prerequisite for the existence of tourism. One of the most important and strategic economic activities in the Republic of Croatia. With this in mind can also understand the establishment, the basic intensities of this law, and this is primarily improving and raising the overall quality of the tourist offer to a significantly higher level and all in order to create conditions for faster development of tourism and especially hospitality as its basic activities. The proposed law will achieve simplification of the administrative procedure in the opening of new facilities, avoidance of illegal business, and in order to raise the level of quality of tourism services. After extensive quality and professional discussion of the Committee on Tourism, it is simply decided to propose to the Parliament to adopt the following amendments. Amendment 1 to Article 28(4) of issue 1: "7" is replaced by the number "8" and the number "14" is replaced by the number "16", with the explanation: it is considered that the renter who owns the rooms, apartments and holiday homes should be allowed to rent at least eight rooms or sixteen beds, which is consistent with not only the average in our competitive tourist countries but is also the current average in the Republic of Croatia... considers that the drastic reduction does not consider it socially justified particularly when it comes to less developed areas or islands. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Amendment 2 in Article 38(2) is amended as follows: "Therefore, in the rural household, the following catering services can be provided: preparing and serving warm and cold dishes and drinks and drinks from mostly own production for up to 50 guests or hikers at the same time, serving, cooking, tasting of must, wine, fruit wine, other products of wine and fruit wine, strong alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages and homemade cuts from their own production in an orderly part of a residential or economic facility in a closed or open area again for up to 50 guests or hikers at the same time." And point 3., accommodation services in the room, apartment up to a maximum of ten rooms or for twenty guests at the same time or accommodation services in the camp with up to ten accommodation units or for 30 guests at the same time, only for guests who provide food services, more specifically drinks and drinks, so breakfast or half board or full board of their own production. The Committee on Tourism has adopted Amendment 3. Article 38(4) is amended as follows: "The Minister shall prescribe the minimum conditions for species and categories, conditions for categories, category codes, method of marking the category and method of categorisation of the facility in which the accommodation services referred to in point 3 of paragraph 2 of this Act are provided, which is considered to be too heavy for their own production and which is common for the purposes of eating, drinking and drinking for the end of which the rural household and the type of products which do not have to be derived from their own production within the meaning of points 1 and 2 of this Article. We believe that if only accommodation services are provided, then it is the provision of catering services in the household of citizens and there is no need for these services to be provided as services in the rural household. In particular, rural households should primarily provide services for preparing and serving meals and drinks from mostly their own production and not just accommodation services, as it effectively contributes to the development of rural tourism from the preservation and promotion of traditional lifestyles in the country. Amendment 4 to Article 55 shall also be added to paragraph 2 which reads as follows: "Natural persons who, on the date of entry into force of this Act, provide catering services in the peasant household shall be obliged to comply with the provisions of Article 38(2) of this Act within one year of the date of entry into force of this Act." In Article 55, paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The natural person who does not comply with his business in accordance with paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article shall be prohibited by the competent office of the decision from providing catering services in the household or in the rural household and shall determine the termination of the validity of... This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The final proposal of the Household Activity Act is proposed for a period of one year from the date of entry into force of the law by harmonising the provision of catering services in an old household. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79055	Thank you. The Committee on European Integration, for local, regional self-government. I'm opening a debate. For SDP's club, respected representative Zdenko Antešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79056	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. Here is the law, the Final Proposal for a Law on Hostage Activity, which passed the first reading procedure where the proposer, as shown in this proposal, respected some remarks by MPs and clubs, however, the SDP Club still has some objections to the Final Proposal of the Law and I would like to present it in this discussion. The basic feature of this law is therefore the full liberalisation of the market in this segment of business as was the case with the Tourism Service Act. In this case, foreign citizens, therefore, have the exact same rights as citizens to perform this activity as Croatian citizens, with a clear compromise in Article 28 which applies from the day Croatia enters the European Union. The second feature of this, this law is to reduce the number of capacities in the home, so-called. Housework in relation to the existing law and what is very significant, and what is very significant when citizens obtaining work permits does not need to present a document that will prove that the object in which they intend to provide services is made in accordance with the Construction Act or that they have a simplified legal, legally built facility. Article 8 regulates the uniquely, therefore, unique working time of catering facilities for the whole country by making it possible for local self-government units to extend their working hours to groups, restaurants and bars within 2 hours, in accordance with their needs. We express the reserve according to this solution so that it can be uniquely solved working time for all of these, for all kinds of catering facilities. Here's what I'm going to illustrate with one example. Let's just say it's not, I don't think it's in line with the real situation that the catering facilities in Opatija, say on Rab, Hvar, Dubrovnik have the same working hours, same working hours as if someone didn't misread me as, uh, like in... Or as one of our colleagues in Lower Blue said. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think that there is, that there is a serious reason to seriously consider this proposal, or to leave it, to allow units of local self-government to have more freedom in that part. Another question not treated at all by this law is the issue of seasonal work of catering facilities. We unfortunately have cases in our tourist resorts or affirmed tourist resorts that during the winter season there is not one object that, which, open to a catering facility in some period. I believe that, in this sense, it should be possible or, as the local self-government unit has been given here, that it, to commit, binds owners through craft chambers, through the association that a certain number of catering facilities are open so that we do not, for example, come to the island of Losinj during the winter period without having a place to eat or have no place to sleep. That's, I think that's one real problem that would be good in some way to solve this law. Another issue is the minister's obligation to adopt sublaws or regulations under this law. However, it should also be binding on the adoption of such rules to make it compulsory for the Chamber of Commerce to participate in, or in, various professional associations so that the more, the more the more the entities are involved in the adoption of these Regulations, and to make these rules as high as possible. Furthermore, when obtaining work permits in Articles 33 and 34, one in our opinion is a unfavourable provision which, in fact, does not define what I said at the outset, the need for the facilities in which the catering activity is carried out to be built to the simple dictionary to be said legal objects. We have on one side a complete liberalisation of the market. We are therefore introducing the Institute that foreigners as citizens can fully carry out the catering activity under the same conditions, which is in perspective when we enter the European Union normally and logically, however, there is no institute on the other hand to prove that the object in which the catering activity is carried out is built under the Construction Act or that it is legal. What can it produce? It can produce still a major attack on our coast, so one apartmentisation or potential in some way illegal construction, and we would like to put stricter provisions in that part of the law that will sort of solve this problem. There was a concern or discussion of some colleagues that if we ask for a useful permit that all facilities in the old town's cores would then be closed. This is simply not true because all the facilities in the old town core work in buildings that were built before 1968, so based on our positive regulations they are already legal with that fact itself. Second, another question that is interesting to say about him is the article 32, which speaks of my picturesquely speaking at my cottage at sea, so 15 people can stay. Therefore, up to 15 persons who are not bonds of residence tax, i.e. that they are not considered guests in terms of renting, etc. but that they're friends, relatives, etc. Now here's this article I know he's taken over from the old law. But already when we're doing a new law I think we should better define this, we should better define this problem because it's not known whether at the same time 15 people, whether throughout the year, whether one day, whether for several days, it leaves the possibility of manipulation, and we know that, as a rule, the cottages at sea are full all year and that there are amazing owners of these cottages that have so many friends, acquaintances and relatives that it's simply not possible. So we think we should define this provision a little more precisely in Article 32. It's a question of the supervision of particularly minors. So the issue of control over drinking alcohol has also been left with the possibility of doing so, by police officers. Now the question is, how are they going to monitor whether through an alcohol test, whether simply by observing, whether, I think, that provision is a little tense or questionable and that it eventually leaves the possibility of some of the actions that we think would not be good. Finally, in the light of the reasons for the law being passed, I will read that there is a need to raise tourism development professionalism as one of the main economic activities, etc. etc. and is estimated to be around 20%, so around 20% think about this activity entering the gray or black zone as regards guest registration, payment of tax obligations and payment of residence fees. And foreign citizens rent their holiday homes on black, because the only legal way for them is for now to carry out this activity as a caterer. It is thought not as citizens and therefore that they would not work on black it is proposed that they can rent their holiday homes under the same rules as Croatian citizens. Now, in this sentence, all of it is kind of painted so that I don't say glare and misery, let's say our control mechanisms, that's the state, so she admits here she admits that 20% so 20% of the rent is done on black, that the party is doing rents on black and now that it doesn't need to be completely liberalized, open that market, and then it won't be black because everything is allowed. I wonder where they're going if we don't introduce protection institutes, protection institutes for Croatian citizens where they're going to be, what's going to happen for a while. Apartment settlements on our coast will be built, there are no institutes that even you, these buildings have to give a useful permit when you get a work permit, and they will simply pile up with various guests and tourists, and our hotels and our apartments, i.e. our citizens will most likely be empty due to objective and some subjective circumstances. I think here we as a club would like to be installed a little stronger, or a little stronger, protection institutes for Croatian citizens or our national interests in this law, as we have also made an observation to the Service Act in the catering activity, and I think that this would then be a good law. The consequences resulting from the adoption of this law states that reducing the grey economy and working on black I am not quite convinced that these proposals of the law will come about and that the state budget and revenues of the tourist community will increase. I am afraid that the revenues of the state budget will only be increased on the basis of the stricter penalties prescribed by this law, and in terms of encouraging the activity that it will not. There, we in the SDP Club estimate that this law is a good basis to finally arrange activities in the field of hospitality. However, with respect to our views or remarks made on behalf of the Club, it will depend on how we vote for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79057	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79058	Dear Mr President, I am correcting the incorrect quote of an esteemed colleague who spoke about Article 28 and refers to foreigners of the European Union when they will be able to rent, as tenants. It is not true that it will be Croatia's entry into the European Union, but also before. This will be the case in February 2009 because the article 62 mentions international agreements and it is about a Stabilisation and Association Agreement which means Croatia must meet by February 2009, not when Croatia enters the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79059	The IDS Club is a respected representative of Dorotea Pesic Bukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79060	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Secretary of State, representatives of the ministry. We in the first reading were quite critical about the law and the fact is and we cannot say that certain improvements were not made in relation to first reading. But we in the IDS believe that it could be better through the debate and colleagues of Antesic, as well as some of my important issues that we think should be resolved through this law are not resolved. In the IDS, we are primarily looking at this law in a touristic way, which in the ministry seems to me that the whole country wanted to be united and that in some non-tourism place, there is really no way to set the working time in the same way as in tourist resorts. As far as IDS is concerned, we believe that this is another law that in some way deposes local self-government units and that certain centralization is being carried out in relation to this law if we see that tourism is constantly being talked about and that we want to develop tourism, I think this working time and decision-making from the level of central government is not good. 40% of tourism takes place in Istria, about 25% in the Primorje-Gorski County, and this harmonisation of our legislation with the European Union and the change of this Household Activity Act shows that it is indeed centralisation and not only more money than in many laws but also in power, because it is certainly important for our government to deal with the working hours of catering facilities, it is certain that cities and municipalities under quotes are not able to make decisions that cafes, restaurants and bars will work for up to how many hours. From Mark's square there must be a better view of the riverbed, the port of Rijeka, Istria, Opatija, so they will decide better in any case from Mark's square. That the units of local self-government were given plus, minus two hours, I don't think it really matters in this law. As for the right to work that I spoke about and in my first reading, I think it should be especially in the areas where tourism deals with tourism that give everyone the opportunity to work 24 hours. On the one hand, we have a building regulation, which is conditioned to build up to a thousand meters, and we know that in our areas that are by the sea there is not much space, so we can't build cafes for daily work and night bars for night work, but that we should really use every square meter of space we have and put it in a function of tourism, of course with all those conditions of construction, noise protection, vibrations, frequency and everything else. Because this way, we take out a whole shift, so that third shift, and we know that we have 300 thousand unemployed. He says that the setting up of working hours of catering facilities by the decision of the representative bodies of local self-government units, i.e. their headships for individual catering facilities, has led to imbalances of economic operators in view of allowed working hours and frequent complaints. So I really appeal to the ministry that we can't treat catering facilities the same way as some where tourist activity isn't being carried out. It seems to me that we would really like to be a less tourist country, and there are other laws that only confirm that, and it started two years ago with 0.0 of alcohol, it continued with the closure of those old women on the Plitvice road who sold cheese on the tourist road and had no idea, location permit. He was also preparing himself, and I don't know if there's still a law to be prepared not to work on Sundays, and according to this, it could be said that really unemployment in the Republic of Croatia is not a problem even though the figures don't say so. It seems to me that way we're working against ourselves. Through this law, it seems to me that even more rigorous penalties need to be withdrawn in order to fill the state budget. I received a response from the inspectorate who was overseeing this summer and during the tourist season imagine it has been received into the state budget by now over 2 million and 200 thousand kuna fines for... inspection of the area of hospitality. [[You don't understand.]] I think there may be more missing in this law and I think it should be done in this law, and these are very important issues, the ZAMP issue, the question of paying TV subscriptions in empty hotel rooms, apartments and private accommodations. Foreign exchange law, so that all shops and locals can receive foreign currency. Questions are also real problems such as Liburnia Hotel Riviera, Lagune Novigrad and many unprivitised hotel houses, and of course we have a problem of conflict of interest of state secretaries who are on the supervisory boards of these hotel houses. I won't even talk about the problems of beaches, tourist land, agricultural land, and all that in function of course tourism. I appreciate the really good will that you have improved certain things such as not to pour drinks to minors, or below 18 years of age, harmonising the number of rooms and beds with local and construction permits, etc., to reduce the gray economy but I think we should still do a lot of work on this law in order to be in the function of our tourism. Here, thank you very much, and I suggest this goes to third reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79061	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79062	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's what I have to do to get my neighbor and my colleague right here, because she said, actually, we went against ourselves because we closed down those poor old ladies along the street. Namely, this poor old woman along the road, according to the Lican story, at least selling her domestic products, is an imported product from the neighbouring Republic, a very questionable quality, and that I am not talking about any sanitary surveillance. So I think you should step up control there, because now you're just out of the highway, wherever you get off the highway, there's a lot of booths, too, and you can't see almost any cows in Lica, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79063	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79064	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm also correcting this incorrect assumption. In many cases, cheese sellers are not prohibited from carrying out this activity because of lack of local authorisation, but because of the fact that they were not selling their cheese at all, they were buying it either in Bosnia or it was smuggled cheese.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79065	Yeah, yeah, cheese's a big deal. Dear Representative Marijan Mlinarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79066	A colleague of parliament said that the increase in fines is solely for the purpose of filling the state budget. Now that's an incorrect quote. Because punishments are given for breaking the law. And among other things, to suppress the gray economy, to not report guests, etc. If she advocates that anyone can do what they want, then she can hold this theory to her theory that it's to fill the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79067	There you go, about the cheese so much. HDZ Club, Honored Representative Milan Meden. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79068	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, Representatives of the Government, Honored gentlemen and Madam Representatives. The Household Activity Act, which was actually passed 10 years ago, has so far had more than 10 amendments and additions, has often been assessed as a regulation that has led to a number of difficulties in its application and in the exercise of supervision, so the adoption of this really today's Law on catering activity is actually of one particular importance for the strategic economic branch of tourism. And especially when it is in the light of its alignment with the acquiss of the European Union. The proposed law is in fact a fundamental law that regulates the issue of carrying out catering activities, which are a prerequisite for the existence of tourism. From the debate of colleagues in front of clubs here, in fact, a good part of this law has been debated, but a good part of it has been proposed in fact to make objections to this law that are absolutely not an integral part of this law, nor should they be as such. But I'm sure it's positive that we discuss it that way. Namely, a colleague in front of the SDP spoke here, the esteemed representative Antesic, of the applicable permits and of the fact that unless the Institute of Use of Permissions is installed in this law that there will be a devasting of the apartmentisation or something like that. I think we have to admit here today that this government has managed very well to contain this very gray economy or let's say this kind of crime, apartmentization with a protective belt. And when we talk about the Institute of Applied Authorisation, he applies to every caterer, whether he's in this law or not. Therefore, there can be no opening of such sites unless they respect the existing Construction Laws of whatever kind they are. Today it was very much here I would also say a note about the gray economy where this government actually speaks or publicly admits in this glow and misery, that there is a very grey economy here. And of course, some government would be able to curb the gray economy, first of all, it must gain strength and admit it. The fact is that the Croatian state budget has increased by more than 10% or 20%. I believe that this is not only because of economic growth, which is estimated to be relative in Croatia compared to perhaps the fast-growing GDP of other Eastern European countries. But it is certain that this budget is well-charged precisely because of the suppression of the gray economy, which is again not an integral part of this law. In one part of today, there was a speech here that this law might have to talk about whether or not to pay subscription to all TVs that are HRT, and again an integral part of the HRT Act where this pillar of state discussed it. And I think he's like his own control mechanism. But in any case, this is a positive matter to discuss. Next, clubs discussed privatising certain hotels, I think Liburnia, etc. It is certainly in the interest of this government that everything left to privatise is privatizing so that these institutes, or those state values, come into the right hands, primarily management and management. But again I'll agree it's not an integral part of this law. In this regard, the basic intensity of this law can also be understood, which is to improve and raise the overall quality of the tourist offer to a significantly higher level. It also includes curbing the grey economy, illegal activities or providing catering services. This is proposed, can be achieved by giving greater powers to economic inspectors, which is done in this law, but also by allowing foreign citizens to carry out their activities legally. That is why I would say and finally pay my taxes and other taxes, so and legally to deal with tourism activities. And so far, they've been very skilled at avoiding it. The proposed law intends to in fact remove the imbalance of economic operators in the light of a very different approach by local administrations or self-government and in the area of determining working time, all of which allows for rules to be defined by law. We heard the remarks. Maybe this is a pre-centralist regime. Or maybe you can't see enough from Mark's square to get to the seas in the river. But you will agree with me that one law institute really must not say centralised but indeed strategically finally enter a little order. And there's more than enough time left when we're talking about plus two hours. Or in some other way that local administration, along with its council or headship, has a lot of room to balance all these working time regulations. The provisions of the proposed law suggest the thinking of the future of Croatian tourism and the necessary development of accompanying activities and of the local roles of the Croatian tourist community and the overall system of tourist communities. In fact, I believe that this law will succeed in further strategically positioning the Croatian tourist product on one more, meaning one place aimed at the quality of this product. Because without a legal basis like this law, we certainly won't be able to do it, or we'll still be crushed, we'll still be untransparent, and we'll always say we have good ideas, but we can't realize them. And I believe that in this very sense with this I would say to the legal institutions one small step further. It's very simple, we'll all agree, at least that's how there were speeches on the boards, but I believe by the clubs that simply reduce the number of rooms and beds by law, there were a lot of words on the board, so what is the number of beds, i.e. beds, which is supposed to transfer the system of private owners to the VAT system or... and in some ways being someone would say under better control. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'll tell you from personal experience that I think the border that was set today for purely natural reasons could be smaller. Although the Assembly Committee has moved this today and I am pleased that the representatives, the legislators and have accepted that number 7 so we are talking about the owner of the rooms will be, or changed to 8, or 14 beds in 16. But from personal experience, I'm going to tell you that this certainly has an economic justification no matter how many of our neighbors are of some average statistical value. In fact, I believe that if the Croatian Tourist Board and all the necessary institutions that should be of educational importance and not only the promotional community are available to these tenants, and responsiblely I argue that they are not enough, if they applied maybe the idea of "one stop shop", "quickly" or someone else or other similar government project so that these tenants through us representatives or perhaps these people who speak here today in front of the club, they had a clear understanding that it would be more economically profitable for them. So if they entered the VAT system four times a quarter, so they showed books, which could actually pay the cost of maybe two thousand kunas, all the costs they have in terms of raising the quality of their product would come to them in a tax base and therefore perhaps ultimately pay less taxes, they would be transparent. Therefore, I believe when today, whether we are talking about 5 or maybe 10 rooms, I don't think it's as important that this government, or the Ministry through its means of other institutions of the Croatian Tourist Board or some others, finally provides an educational character, not just a promotional character, or that we're not talking about some other character that is more focused perhaps on the PR and outside, rather than on a man who would have to give a quality, precisely this kind of product. Here, in this sense, I believe that this Law will certainly make a full contribution to the overall development of catering activities and tourism. And the HDZ Club will support this law for those reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79069	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79070	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Namely, my colleague Meden has been polluting with the stated claim that this Law, namely uncontrollable liberalisation of the market, i.e. catering activities and not installing protection mechanisms, indirectly encourages sale and apartmentisation on our coast, said that the government has prevented an apartmentisation by adopting a regulation on the coastal belt. That's an incorrect claim. The government has not thus prevented the apartmentisation and sale of Croatian land, i.e. the coast and islands, but only this can be prevented by taking a fast pace of quality spatial plans to prevent it. The very adoption of a regulation on a protected coastal belt is, in fact, indirect and in some ways, puts the economy and people living on the island and the coast in an unfavourable position.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79071	HSP club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79072	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. In its first reading, HSP provided a series of proposals and remarks to the Household Activity Act, and it is good that we did not bring into the urgent process the Household Activity Act. Because the way he was, he'd have caused serious inconspicuous consequences and he'd be inadmissible. I must admit that a significant number of remarks by the Croatian Party Club are rights accepted and incorporated into this Final Proposal of the Law, and now it is essentially about a law that is really quite improved and that will enable what is and intention, intensity and the promoters and us to get a better Law on catering activities where order can be introduced. Because we need to be realistic and honest that we know for ourselves that according to official indicators the state budget per year because of the action of the gray economy remains somewhere short of 11 to 15 billion kuna. And this area that regulates and the Household Activity Act is also an area where there is, that is, today has a lot of gray economy. But here I have to say that the last amendments to the Law on the introduction of paushals in a certain way have made one shift compared to those dealing with renting, means in accordance with the Croatian laws that adhere to Croatian laws, but something quite the opposite has happened, which is rightly passed by all those who are legally engaged in the renting of catering parts. That there was even a trend that reduced the number of legal tenants, and the big problem is that you can't get to those who work on black. It's the biggest problem, it's a problem and the middle Adriatic, it's a problem and middle Dalmatia, southern Dalmatia, and there's no inspection that has for the time being appropriate powers especially when it comes to foreigners because we know how an economic inspector can enter that facility that is owned by a stranger. He can only enter if he's authorized by a court of law. This is a huge problem, so that this part of what we are, as the promoter also accepted our demands from the HSP club, as well as from other clubs, related to foreign renters, citizens of the European Union, that they will be able to obtain that status under our legislation when Croatia joins the European Union, i.e. in February 2009, as it committed Croatia to a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. We don't know how or how it's going to work out. Take the question of Vira, for example. You know how many Hungarian objects there have been. It has all over it, there are other foreigners, and that's the part that we really need to bring attention to this part of the reform within the work of the judiciary and the Law on Infringements. Because it's also cruel that all criminal charges, not all criminal charges, but from 40 to 50% of criminal charges, economic inspectors are not prosecuted for the fact that they're out of date. On the one hand, there is a great burden on infringement courts so that the only measures in the work of inspectors are both on the matter of working time and on these other matters, the only effective measures were to give the oral solution to the ban for 30 days or already the case. So it is a task for both the government and all of us to really protect those who adhere to Croatian regulations, which are legal, from those who work on black. So, therefore, this is a step in that sense, but it's not the step that we're all going to be happy about, and it's going to go right in that part that as much as possible to curb the gray economy. As far as this other problem is concerned, and as far as we're concerned, we know what the situation is, and I think that five-year term is appropriate this time. In fact, the problem has arisen for the former authorities because of the fact that the change of the Law on municipal activity enables both electricity and water and everything else, and now everything has returned as a boomerang, and of course we have other situations to say when it comes to renters that they have both construction permits and everything, but they do not have the necessary permits so that it is quite acceptable now to work this out. Now, about the catering services in the peasant household, you probably have a tipfeler in Article 38(5) or you said that it is related to foreigners and to the provision of catering services in the peasant household as well as to catering services in the household, but here you speak Article 29, in paragraph 5, you have to start from Article 28, because Article 29, then it would have turned out, obviously, that there was a tipfeler and then I ask you to fix it by your amendment yourself. And also related to Article 41(1), the economic inspector should also stand by the oral decision in the minutes, so in the minutes or that edition is in Article 40, because we cannot. The inspector may adopt an oral solution only as part of the minutes because he first finds the actual situation and then brings an immediate measure and it is entered in the minutes and I think this is a good solution related to Article 41(5) when it is a breach of working time if within two days of the date of adoption of the oral solution this amount is paid I think that this measure will also succeed in introducing order especially for those situations where it is in the interests of those hosts, and not 30 will be so likely to lead to due attention and account. The old problem now arises regarding categorization in view of the working time of catering facilities and there is always a dispute between and in tourist resorts and let's say the Zagrebs, the Zagrebs from the Jarun area, who normally protest about what is possible for all the various catering facilities work very much until deep into the night, and these conditions for categorization and everything else are not met. This is your situation in tourist resorts, it is true that it is especially in tourist resorts, but in those tourist resorts live and people who go to work tomorrow, meaning who are residents of these tourist resorts and but this is all the consequence of this categorization. Namely, this is where noise protection and all other situations occur, and it is obvious that there must be some stronger powers for inspectors in terms of terms, because we know what is the situation of who is examining the protection and how long this course and the process is going on and then normally the one with whom they come to investigate knows what is going to happen and how it will happen, whether they will come to be questioned automatically then make sure that the noise is reduced and everything else. So the step is, the step is in this part, but remains the most large part, which is sanctioning the work on black, sanctioning the gray economy and that illegal competition for those who adhere to Croatian citizens, who adhere to Croatian entrepreneurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79073	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Željko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79074	Snack.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79075	Snack.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79076	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the light of the recent amendment to the existing Law on Indicative Activity in which the introduction of a flat-rate payment was introduced, Kovačević said that a positive shift in this domain, therefore to reduce the black market, increased the number of applications, etc. It is likely that the well-known team of colleagues, Kovacevic, missed the fact that the truth is the other way around, that this adoption of a flat-rate agreement, that the adoption of a cobwebs only favored the tenants of large tenants who have large capacities at the expense of those who have small ones, and in the light of the adoption of this Law, the promoter himself says that 20%, that 20% of the black market in catering exists and that foreigners as citizens are forced to rent on black.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79077	This was a fellow commentary more. PGS club, SBH, MDS, respected representative Nikola Ivanis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79078	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear Secretary of State, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Let us, very briefly, on behalf of the regional party club, comment on the Final Proposal for the Household Act, and I would like to say a few principles here first. First of all, we estimate that between the first and the second reading, it is true that, as the text has been said, there has been an improvement and that we have before us a law which can in principle be said to be a step forward, or that the law certainly creates conditions for better regulation of the overall catering activity in the future based on this Law than it has ever been before. The law liberalises the overall area of provision of catering services and we look at the programme and the world-wide position from which we come, which is the position of regional parties, we appreciate that this liberalisation is necessary, that it is in line with the organisation of the society we are going to and that it is good. However, we have one principled remark. Before that, I would say that the issue and overall regulation are in line with what is in this area about what is applied in the European Union, what is characteristic of this activity in European countries, but when this issue is also about the right to carry out and with a whole series of measures listed here, we believe that it is a questionable duty, i.e. the need to have at all this Article 8. The law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law after Article 7 which counted the types of catering facilities speaks precisely about working time I don't know about hotels, camps, bars, etc. One of the principles on which the system rests, on which the functioning of authorities in European countries rests, is subsidiarity. We are in a game with more or less success, with greater or less luck, in a match with Brussels to speed up the pace and make progress towards the Union regardless of the problems. The subsidiarity means that anything that can be qualityd should be decided at a lower level and taken as a decision. And subsidiarity is embedded in the foundations and principles of the functioning of the European Union. We bring in the entire Integrated Household Act in which we set up the system in a way that the state determines when this bar will work, until when this restaurant will work and then leave the possibility of intervention in an hour or two local self-government. So what is regional, urban and municipal self-government if it can't decide how much of a catering facility will work? We think that the proposer should actually, with his amendment to move Article 8 and, in this amendment, say that the working time of certain catering facilities is decided by the representative bodies of municipalities and cities in the area of the catering facilities. We think it would be in the spirit of embezzling the subsidiarity model with everything we can build it into and that it would be a far better solution and in that sense we suggest to the Secretary of State that until the adoption of this law changes it because it really does explain or that it is necessary to say that someone can work up to 10 or 12 hours without it being coordinated with, say, the regulation on noise, says that Article 8 itself is actually inconsistencies and this is how it is prescribed... We have precise legislation on noise that should depend on and ultimately work time, and this is not in line with it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For this reason, it should simply be transmitted to representative authorities of cities and municipalities which, in accordance with these regulations, then resolve and decide on the working time of catering facilities. In that case, we would be satisfied and support the law as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79079	Thank you. An individual debate. Dear Representative Rade Ivas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79080	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I will, in short lines, comment on the proposal for a final proposal of the Household Act with the claim that it is a very high-quality law that has been improved far compared to the one that was in the first reading, accepting that the Proposer has accepted certain remarks and suggestions given in the first reading. I think the law should be adopted because it provides, among others, a more modern and quality perception of the hospitality itself. Otherwise, an old law or an existing law was passed back in '95. A year. He's been changed several times, a total of 10 times. And it's a good thing the Proposer decided to pass a whole law, not to make amendments and additions. The reasons why the proposer has decided on a new law can be grouped into several groups. In fact, frequent amendments and additions to the law certainly lead to misunderstandings in the application of the text and difficulties in applying the law itself and difficulties in implementation and supervision. Furthermore, the existing law does not fully comply with the European Union's gains, and in particular this discrepancies related to the provision of household services where foreign citizens who are owners of real estate in Croatia were not allowed to rent these rooms and accommodations. The new law lays down the same conditions for the rental of domestic and foreign nationals or citizens of the European Union. And it is good, however, that the application of this provision is delayed until Croatia enters full membership of the European Union. Furthermore, the implementation of measures to combat the grey economy as well as the implementation of the National Consumer Protection Programme also requires amendments to the existing law, and this primarily refers to the regulation of higher amounts of fines for infringements concerning the illegal exercise of activity as well as the granting of more powers to economic inspectors in these cases. It was also necessary to amend the existing law in order to put into the legal frameworks of the so far not covered but in practice to apply activities or to abandon those that no longer correspond to the development of the Croatian economy. Thus, in point 3 of the Law, tax is taxed on persons who, even without formal registered hospitality, are able to carry out that activity. Thus, in this circle, besides institutions managed by national parks, nature parks and catering educational institutions, it is proposed that catering activities can also be carried out by spas, Croatian fairy union, Hostel Alliance, Croatian Mountain Association, hunting associations. It's a good thing that the fishing associations and the National Minorities Association have been involved. In fact, this promoter accepts the fact that they have provided such a service to date and I believe that this is good and that it can only contribute to the diversity of the tourism offer and that it will not lead to market imbalance. The same resort as the specific categories that were regulated in the old law should be fully commercialised or prescribed that we can only provide services to them in professional hosts. What's important in the old law and the new one is changing is that working hours were prescribed by local self-government units. In many areas, this has led to frequent complaints of allowed working hours for both local and guest residents, so Article 8 provides that working hours will be determined uniquely for all catering facilities and that this law prescribes this and leaves local self-government units with the possibility that they can prescribe longer working hours for 2 hours, that they can determine locations where the catering facilities can operate from 0 to 24 hours, and that they can introduce criteria by which the Headship and by official duty for individual catering facilities can determine the earlier completion of working hours. It is good that the promoter and accepted the proposal that the caterers can operate in double facilities, which means that if they meet the conditions they can work at day and night clearly with a limit, one restriction is to carry out drinks for consumption outside closed spaces. And I believe that with a strict working time control it will be possible to satisfy the interests of both the local population and the tourists who seek peace. It is important to note here and it is also accepted from the debate in the first reading that economic inspectors will not seal the catering facility if he has been in violation of the work hours if he submits within two days proof that he has paid 30 thousand kuna or liabilities. And I believe the future caterer will be very careful not to break his hours. According to the applicable law, citizens could rent guests rooms, apartments and holiday homes owned by owners. The data show that almost 40% of the accommodation facilities available to Croatian tourism in the household of citizens and the profession estimates that it is not good, so there has been changes, and the final bill stipulates that the private renter will be able to rent up to seven rooms and not ten more than ten, as prescribed in the existing law or no more than twenty-four beds. To rent a larger number of beds or rooms will have to open a craft for which the legislator also gave him one transitional period within five years. Since I made remarks in my first reading that this number should be increased, I think it is good and I accept the Tourism Committee to increase this to sixteen beds or eight rooms. And I can also say that it is good that the authority to exercise supervision of the ban on alcohol consumption for minors, that, under the new bill, police officers are now authorised because it is certain that they will be on the ground, constantly in contact with the catering facilities and their guests will be able to spot this offence more easily and quality. Perhaps there was still a need to define how these police officers would only be able to control them, whether they were alcoholics, etc. In the end, I think it's a good law and it's the same thing to be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79081	Thank you. A few replicas. First respected representative Anton Perusko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79082	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will take advantage of the business opportunity of the replica, although I agree with my colleague Ivas in many ways, but I will find that from the first to the second reading, the text of the final bill has been improved in many ways, which I do not dispute, in the work I do not dispute. However, I reported only because of one particular problem. Article 3 lists all institutions that can carry out activities under certain conditions, so as to list public institutions that manage national parks, health institutions, catering and educational institutions, Croatian fairy and hostel alliances, Croatian mountaineering alliances, hunting associations, fishing societies, associations of members of national minorities, institutions that carry out theatre activities, and I absolutely agree with that. But there was also a lot of suggestions from the first reading to get us representatives involved in amateur sports associations. The only thing left outside is amateur sports companies and I would not like to show our attitude towards sports in Croatia, to over hundreds of thousands of athletes. There are only 16.5 thousand registered in Istria and we all can and we know in what way they in some way should say conditionally in the situation of what they are doing here and some small income due to the cover exclusively the costs of the competition. The other day we had a discussion of the bill on providing services, so it's the same case, and nowhere, we can't get that sport in. We've passed the Sports Act, we've said for a certain time we've frozen 700 million kunas of professional clubs, but I assure you of these amateurs we've decided to freeze within five years practically unfulfilled. I ask you, Mr. Secretary of State, to fix this bill with your own amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79083	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Rade Ivas.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79084	Thank you, Mr. President. So the distinguished representative actually completed my debate with the proposal why the promoter did not accept the suggestion from the debate that sports associations also allow tourism, hospitality, although they are not... I mean, I wouldn't mind if it was built in. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, if it were built in, it would be good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79085	Thank you. Second replica, the esteemed representative of Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79086	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In his presentation, my colleague Ivas said that this law would improve the perception of total hospitality. I must say that my colleague Ivas will do well to improve the concept of overall hospitality, but by reducing the powers of the representative bodies of the local self-government units, the criteria for determining the working time of the catering facilities have been impaired, which will result in a decline in the perception of total hospitality and I am saying this because it cannot happen that in one municipality or in one city, you cannot simply solve the tourist town's working time. Therefore, a strategy for the development of a city or a municipality, or a region, can be such that it determines such things as working time because it brings ultimately a comprehensive strategy for the development of that city or that municipality.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79087	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Rade Ivas.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79088	Thank you, Mr. President. I said in my debate that, among other things, this law would bring a more modern perception of the caterer itself, which we agree, whether because "certainly" is limited to the right of local self-government units to determine time, working time, or to compromise that perception, it is questionable. I think it's, that's a good thing you're introducing a unique working time because I'm familiar with that... that the diverse introduction of this working time has caused a lot of problems in areas, local self-government units both local and tourist and local self-government units are not excluded. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They can extend their hours in two hours. I can shorten working hours, I can determine locations where the caterer will be able to work both day and night. So they have certain conditions. But I do believe that the law in general creates one quality perception of this modern hospitality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79089	And respected representative Zdenko Antesic is a replicator.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79090	Thank you very much. Here is my colleague Ivas, you said it was good to level the conditions for carrying out the hospitality activities of the citizens of Croatia and the citizens of the European Union, however, it is good that this is delayed until Croatia's entry into the European Union. And now see if that is, is this claim a consequence of some kind of remorse because we know what's going to happen, but why do I personally think that's good? We must, since we are seeking the European Union, we must liberalise this market, but wild liberalisation, uncontrollable is not good. Why is there no doubt that the Institute of the Protection of the Legality of a Building in which the catering activity is carried out because in this case we have an example on the Vira, we have cases of the theatre destruction of objects that have existed for 20 years and in which the black is rented especially by the foreigners. Here's the stranger we're thinking mass Hungarians and others so I don't insult or underestimate a European nation. It's massively rented on black in illegal facilities, and now we remember after 20 years and more after it exists that it needs to be destroyed. If we were to get here now, we now have the opportunity to install in this law provisions that cannot be allowed to work if the facility is not built on the basis of a valid building permit and the problem is absolutely solved. That's all there is to it. And here's that way of controlling or installing control mechanisms so that these things don't happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79091	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Rade Ivas.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79092	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I can agree a lot with a respected representative, but the fact is that in Croatia, a lot of foreign citizens own apartments, holiday houses and that they are still engaged in renting these facilities but on black. Therefore, we need to legalise it, we need to give them the opportunity to be, and that means that we are doing it to comply with our legislation with the European Union. However, I said that it is a good thing that this is being delayed, and for a purely reason to respect these principles when we enter the European Community, we will then allow these foreigners, members of the European Union, to be able to carry out this activity in Croatia under the same conditions as we will be able to carry out this activity in those countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79093	Thank you. 12 and 40. It's time to report a ten-day debate on this point. Honorable representative of Jure Bitunac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79094	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The proposed law before us is a comprehensive, integrated law and it is certainly commendable to the fact that the remarks of us who took part in the first reading, the debate in the first reading of the bill, a good part of the remarks assessed by the promoter were accepted and they are conceived in this final draft of the law that we are discussing here in the Croatian Parliament today. The hospitality law that is before us is and... The legislation itself, and when it comes to this activity in accordance with the European Union legislation in this part, in this activity, and I believe that this opportunity is certainly also a total gastronomic offer in the Republic of Croatia in our village and what makes it a tradition both in the country and in the clean tourist sector is to preserve our speciality and privacy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, adapting to legislation in general does not always mean and is not, in any event, the annulment of domestic values and diversity that Croatia or any other country that are members of the European Union. I would now pay attention to certain articles in view of the discussions that were before me and when it comes to working hours, in particular Article 8, I believe that the promoter has well defined working hours. It is based on experience at least by my assessment, which is specific when it comes to coast, but also when, which is also characteristic of the continental part of Croatia. These provisions that allow plus minus two hours before the start of working hours, or after the completion, as prescribed here I think it is a good proposal and give units of local self-government, municipalities, and cities that can... But I'm saying this is one good average. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is calculated on the basis of certain experiences and knowledge and I believe that every city, every place and in the coast will find space to possibly extend or shorten the working time as it is given to adjust its working time according to the needs of the city concerned. In any case, I know from experience that many units of local self-government and many councilors who participate in representative bodies of local self-government units had mainly in Dalmatia Zagora, I can say a rather restrictive approach when it comes to working hours, so it was trying to make cafes or I don't know which other catering facilities work shorter for young people and so on, and today we see that both young people in Zagreb and Sinj come out at the same working time. It's 11 o'clock in the evening. And that's a fact. As for the noise once mentioned by someone, I also expressed my reservations at first reading. It is not the subject of this law nor can this law be treated but I believe that many at least my generation or when we go on vacation that often bothers us when we are in a small town on an island or along the coast that bothers us with the music that shakes the whole place, the place echoes from those decibels. And we have cases of music playing on one terrace, on the other, and when you get somewhere in between, you don't hear what's at stake. Most of the time I'd say that music, music up to the board, and then we've got one terror all over the place, so you can't go to sleep at 2:00 a.m. But it's not the subject of this law or the legislator treats it in this law. I believe that, when it comes to public order and peace and the provisions of the units of local self-government, this issue should be regulated. Drinking of alcohol in Article 12 under 18 is appropriately regulated. And otherwise it is one problem that is present not only in Croatia, but also in other European Union countries and otherwise it is often with all the warnings that it is often to implement the provisions of this law in any case. Here it is, the legislator suggested it quite flexible so that there would be no sanctions like in that first reading where I had certain remarks where people working in catering would have to legitimize every person. But I think it's a problem that is present, that needs to be worked on and primarily in the family so that children who are, are not young or young, or girls who have not turned 18 to not consume alcohol. Since I come from Dalmatia, then I certainly paid special attention to article 38, which speaks of catering services in the peasant household. The area of the Dalmatian burning certainly the provisions of this law, I think those people who have and have already said they have an interest in providing certain catering services, I think it's well-conceived. I would like to say one comment on Article 38(2) of point 5 of strong alcoholic and alcoholic beverages. I don't think that's where the lapus came in. You might think of non-alcoholic drinks, because I don't have some etemological logic, some language logic, strong alcoholic and alcoholic beverages. So point 5. I think the promoter probably meant non-alcoholic drinks that are being prepared at home, so home that are some domestic product because this way I don't think there's one word to be put in place twice, so here I would suggest that it be kept in mind and, if I'm right, I'm glad that I helped make that mistake right, and that's my obligation. In any case, I believe that when it comes to the offer of peasant households, it can be a contribution to the total, catering wealth of our offer and the total tourist offer. Certainly, Dalmatia, the inner part of Istria, when I speak Dalmatia, think of the Dalmatian Zagora that there are great opportunities, great opportunities and that with a variety of food, healthy food, a good environment and a cultural tradition that it can all be part of one general offer, tourist offers in the Republic of Croatia. Since tourism is an important branch and one of Croatia's driving forces. The hospitality is certainly an important and inevitable factor, and I believe that all the measures, the proposals proposed by the Government and the incentives for the development of tourism are de facto related to this sector, to this segment in the overall tourist offer. It is a hospitality, and I can certainly testify that our County of Split-Dalmatia has given its pain. I believe that all of these things must be raised to a higher level and this will mean one wealth and one new stimulant and in employment, solving social problems, migration from village to city, etc. Finally, I would like to say once again that the law is well-conceived, that this is an excellent law, and I believe that proposals and remarks have been accepted, embedded in this Final Bill proposal, by the very fact that we as parliamentary representatives have a good proposal and I hope that all parliamentary representatives and political parties will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79095	Thank you. Replica. Honorable representative Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79096	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yeah, my buddy Bitunac was talking about the terror of loud music that's shaking, right? But the problem must be where the noise is unbearable. But here it forgets the vibrations that are transmitted to constructive parts of buildings. The vibrations in certain examples are much worse than the noise itself, and I think, and here I was also speaking in my presentation when we were working on the first reading of this bill that the law should certainly work on vibrations especially in multiple-use buildings. So, the residential-economic part. This part of the constructive parts of the buildings should be dealt with in a way that the vibrations are not transmitted because the transmission of vibrations is impossible to remove afterwards.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79097	Replication response. Honorable representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79098	So here's my colleague's answer to good vibrations. I believe that every catering facility should be issued a useful permit. One of them is that acoustic, sound insulation. Therefore, not a single bar can be, not a single nightclub gets permission if it is on the ground floor or in the basement of a building, and that the tenants above are at risk. That's the thing on the one hand and it's certainly the thing and the competent inspection services. So, that's the thing that needs to be solved that way, and what I'm saying is that it's clear going either you or me across some small square in some small town of ours is de facto there at two o'clock at night, sometimes we don't go to sleep and we go to bed a little later and where the music shakes, the music shakes in one place, on the other, and I don't think it's exactly a relapse that we had back twenty, thirty years, and that slowly as far as I know and in the larger tourist centres and things are being put in to say ad act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79099	Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79100	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, Assistant, colleagues and colleagues. This is a good practice that is common precisely in this resort of tourism. The other day we had a service activity, today is a tourist activity. So we produce laws both in the first and second readings just as we are required by those of us who are a tourist country and who are required to continue to develop in tourism to make a big step. Of course, without normative activity, it was not possible. I am therefore pleased that this law has also been found before us in the second reading that the proposer of many of the useful suggestions has appreciated, regardless of which sides they came from, because yet one important fact is that after 10 years of the previous law, with many amendments and additions, it should be a practice that the bill in this case solves the whole matter in the catering activity. Although this is much harder and more complex work for the designer's promoter, it is now facilitating the application of this law from those tourist offices, regardless of where they are on the islands, in the coast or, for example, in Dalmatia Zagora, as well as those dealing with tourist regulations, catering activities, lawyers, and ultimately criminal judges. I am particularly pleased to note, among other things, in Article 3 that the catering activity under the conditions prescribed by this law can be dealt with by health institutions, i.e. health facilities, which will be welcomed by everyone on the Makarska Riviera, especially the Special Hospital for Medical Rehabilitation, which will benefit this duality, doubtfulness and in fact uncertainty greatly from further development from health tourism. Of course, the opportunity will not be missed or used by Hvar, which is in its 140-year tourist history, in fact for 138 years there is always winter tourism for those who suffer from various respiratory diseases. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. There's been a lot of Finally, it is necessary to say what is the working time that will be uniform throughout the country. Certain and representative bodies and headships may, in exceptional circumstances, determine that it may be for a maximum of 2 hours higher, and that the headships are also lower than what can be done. Of course, it's not the subject of this law to talk about protection at work. And for those of us who come to such places, not just those who walk, it should be better served. Not in this law, but in other laws exactly the part that deals with the pleasure of staying in the facility. Not just from noise, but air conditioning, ventilation. Because you can't drink a glass of good wine at 2:00 a.m. if you can't talk to each other or if you're not venting enough air so you can't stay inside without a man choking. This is a very dangerous reason and it should be in the regulations on the protection of our users and those who work in these facilities sharpened. I believe this suggestion will be used by our proposal to pass on to colleagues from other relevant bodies. I believe that the regulations set out here in Articles 39 and 40 will indeed serve the administrative inspection, and in particular in the exercise of inspection supervision in the field of catering activities, i.e. the provision of catering services, the economic inspector will, by means of an oral order in the minutes, adopt a solution adopted to determine, remove identified deficiencies and ban the maximum period of 30 days precisely the work of that facility. This should be known to be just like these strict regulations, but also by oral decision-making, order should be introduced or tried to introduce it in order in every segment and so on in this. Because one who doesn't work for 10 days or 20 days in the middle of the season, and that loss, he won't be able to make up for the season until Christmas. And that is why it is very important, nomotechnically but also very detailedly arranged this article of inspection and administrative supervision that should certainly be encouraged that other also very important regulations which are determined to live on work, but also for economic development can bring it. Harmonization. The day is a good time I would say five years after which there is no apology we could have, and we didn't know, because in this procedure until before this proposal came to us the benches of all associations, everyone was obvious, all of them interested, and it can't be said that now is the tourist season and that they don't have time. Now it was time for them to include themselves with useful, practical solutions the proponent of this law suggest how to solve it. Also a legal reduction in the current capacity of the bed, accommodation units are very important to create the necessary precondition for that direction of Croatian tourism. The restrictions are in Germany, and Austria, Italy, in various other tourist countries that predominate the world in general to develop catering activities in this way. Of course, this law also harmonizes our legislation, legislation with the countries of the European Union. Why do we always point that out? For reasons, because just the largest number of tourists from developed Europe are coming to us on vacation. This law makes it significantly easier to operate a caterer. The further development of tourism for young people for whom it is intended, various encouraging loans, we also had HBOR, the Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which has made it possible for many small hotel development measures, high standards in the design of very accommodation facilities that cannot be shamed by any, any country that is more developed in tourism than our own. As a rule, this law will also contribute to higher employment and thus reduce work to black, because one who wants to deal with tourism seriously should know that it is in this way that law and regulation should deal with their activities. So everyone is protected in every way. I believe this law will be passed. That time of adjustment will be used by many to increase the quality of their services and develop indirect and other activities that are accompanied by tourism. Therefore, this law is welcomed not only by islanders and coasts, but also by all those who have so far been engaged in a more modest way, by rural tourism, by hunting tourism, because that means certain guarantees to those who have come to rest, to recreate, to fill the batteries so that they can do so for the satisfaction of their families and their families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79101	Thank you. Replica, a respected representative of Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79102	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here is a colleague of Peronja's, in his presentation, said something about the conditions of stay of guests in catering facilities, as well as the conditions of protection at work, i.e. the work and stay of employees in catering facilities when it comes to air conditioning, i.e. noise. So here I would say that a few words that is right in this law is good that it is decided that objects must have a useful license, and using the permission to solve both air conditioning and noise protection, the more the sanitary inspection must issue the belief that the rules of the Noise Act have been applied, that noise tests have been carried out, which is often a major problem we have heard from all the exhibitions. But here I think something will have to change both in the Noise Act and the Noise Level Regulation. When noise is established, certain limiters should be placed which will not allow, they will not have the possibility of owners of catering facilities to move noise levels in their catering facilities. And when you were talking about measures that improve inspection supervision in catering facilities, I would stress here that the value of such laws is in that if it enables effective and effective supervision of the implementation of the measures laid down in the law. In this law, I think that in one segment it is not well solved in Article 43 where it is mentioned about the ban on camping in unauthorized places where a solution is allowed. I have a comment here, and I have written even one amendment where this should be banned by oral solution, which is an effective and effective action and implementation of illicit camping. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79103	Thank you. How's the replica, like this? ... Just give me the handle, don't use the tile. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] A tile, not a handle. Here's a replica, a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79104	It was this bill that pointed out that many others should follow modern technology and other reasons and serve this protection at work. 'Cause all of us who go to bars by 2:00 p.m., we know it's a bad ventilation, it's a bad noise, that when you come out you don't know your head. Here's a fellow Bitunac confirmed it when he walks small places, especially when you're inside. So the others need to encourage you. And I'm certainly glad that this oral order of ban, it's a replica, so it's not this legislator, it's said to another and oral solution, that it becomes fully effective and in every segment of the enforcement of this law. Therefore, this once again law is modern and effective for what we should strive for in other segments.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79105	What are you doing at 3:30 in the morning? ... Honorable representative, Walter Poropat, replica. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79106	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's to... I agree with my colleague Peronja when he said that some European tourism countries have introduced certain restrictions such as Italy, Austria and Germany. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]] However, Mr. Peronja, these restrictions are quite another nature, but the working hours of the catering facilities certainly do not determine these countries. And if I don't talk about licenses, specifically as far as catering is concerned, it's the hardest thing to get. And all these things are within the authority of the municipalities because they finally enter into a strategy for the development of these municipalities, i.e. those regions.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79107	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of the Crown of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79108	Very specific. The legislator points out that the legal reduction of the current restrictions on the number of rooms, beds, accommodation units for household citizens makes it necessary to set out the direction of Croatian tourism. In Germany up to 10 rooms, Italy up to 4 with no more than 6 beds and no more than 6 guests. Austria, the restriction depends on the provinces. As a rule, 7 to 10 rooms. In Croatia they have 7 rooms... capacity needs to be monitored by certain incentives. [[You don't understand.]] On Sunday, in Austria, you really don't have a Marenda, let alone lunch because you don't work in ski resorts, for example, Baghdad or all those who do really seasonal work.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79109	Dear Representative Marijan Mlinarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79110	Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Secretary of State. Tourism is one of the most important factors of economic development in Croatia, and the catering activity in the overall tourist offer has a significant impact on this development of tourism and this may have been one of the most important reasons for the adoption of this modern one would be a law that allows for better development of total tourism in Croatia. In addition to this reason, the current Household Activity Act has already been said, it has experienced 10 amendments and additions. Furthermore, the applicable law was not fully in line with the legal acquis of the European Union. In addition, the plan of short- and long-term measures to curb the grey economy could only make it through this law to some who have avoided their legal obligations. These measures primarily relate to the regulation of higher amounts of fines for infringements relating to the illegal exercise of activity, i.e. the provision of services and the granting of greater powers to economic inspectors in such cases. In this respect, the national Youth Action Programme also provides for measures aimed at developing tourism for young people, expanding the network of accommodation facilities intended primarily for young people, and in accordance with international drinking practice, the necessary measures of this applicable law are necessary. So these were all reasons, and in addition after the first reading, following the remarks many of these remarks were adopted so that this law finally regulates and enables the catering activities of associations such as the Croatian Fair and Hostel Association, the Croatian Mountain Association, then hunting associations, fishing associations, the Association of members of national minorities, but that is even in some institutions, such as theatre activity where private and private catering have no interest in opening their catering facilities there for lack of profitability. I am particularly looking forward to the fact that finally health institutions and health resorts are included in this category which can also have catering activities in their work description because they will only be able to be there, will allow for full service in health tourism. Here in the continental part of Croatia, all the spas tended to be more difficult to achieve in different ways so far, in order to reach out, avoid the shears of the law so far. I am also pleased that finally the function of the resort as a social category is abolished by an earlier law in 2001, but that there is a possibility of organising an independent holiday and wintering of children who are in children's resorts from families with lower income per household member. Most of the dispute is about editing the working time of the catering facilities. Namely, yes, there is the impression that it may be limited to local self-government units, some of their functions, but there were many more complaints that the neighbouring municipalities had for the same type of facility, for the same type of catering facilities, different working hours, and that it went to the Constitutional Court, such decisions by local self-government fell, as were those decisions that we gave to some shops on Sundays, and others did not work on Sundays. So maybe it's more important that it's determined for certain types of objects, universally it would be said for the whole state to work hours, and that units of local self-government are able to increase it by 2 or an hour up or down. In summer, it is also an interesting proposal from a fellow SDP that local self-government units should order some catering facilities to work over winter. This may have been done in some previous times, but now that profitability has only measured whether a catering facility works or not, it cannot be ordered by the state. This can be agreed with the tourist community of the place or the local self-government unit to co-finance the catering facility to work over winter so that they have a tourist offer throughout the year. I am also pleased that the business manager's institute has proved excessive for reasons why the law violates the responsibility of a legal and natural person and of a responsible person in a legal person. The inexplicable obligations of the caterer to ensure guests in the accommodation facilities resulting from an accident poses a question of the declared protection of consumers. We know that travel agencies must provide their passengers. According to the current law, we had 10 rooms and 20 beds in the private household. This decreases due to the rise in professionalism and better control. Because we know that a certain number to 20% was done in black. I think that this amendment has found the right measure, that it is 8 rooms and 16 beds and I think it will be, if that amendment is accepted, that it will be just optimal. I think the Law, as well as the additional amendments to the Tourism Committee, are better arranged to provide services in rural households where neither rooms nor beds have been reduced, but the possibility of action has been expanded. It is also very important for continental tourism where along the wine roads and this rural tourism is one of the main offers in continental tourism. It is also good that inspection and administrative supervision has improved and has given greater authority to inspectors to make certain decisions, as well as to increase penalties within, of course, the opportunities to do so in the light of the Law on Infringements, so that things can be brought into order. It is also important for young alcohol control. So, people under the age of 18 are given authority to police officers who are normally under control. I think it's already enough for them to see that young people order drinks, police, to order drinks alcoholicly, and that regular IDs, or personal documents, can determine whether a person is younger than or older than 18, that no alcohol testing is necessary in such a case. Now, for all these improvements in the law, I am in favour of this law being accepted and I will vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79111	Thank you. Replica, a respected representative of Jagoda Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79112	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, in his discussion, he noted that he was glad that health care facilities, i.e. health facilities, were included in the category of facilities that could provide tourist services. In that category, however, not all health institutions are, but as the proposer himself said in his explanation, special hospitals were still isolated. So special hospitals are not included in the category of institutions that can provide services in tourism. There is a broader explanation which is why the proposer did not include them because it is considered to be tourists and patients in such a special hospital it is not good for them to interfere in some way. So if that could be true, it says here that it is necessary to physically separate a part of the space of special hospitals that will be healthy from a part of the space that would be touristic. And then it is also further said that we also note that special hospitals, and according to current regulations, could provide tourism services on a commercial basis, the establishment of companies and, according to our knowledge, in most of such institutions. Therefore, if the proposer himself says that such hospitals, I am now specifically aware of this when I talk about our special hospital Biokovo as in Makarska, which also provides tourist services, and I know that throughout this period of action this hospital is trying to solve this problem in various ways. Therefore, if the proposer himself says that they are still providing these services, then I see no reason why they should not be included in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79113	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Marijan Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79114	I think the motionary is... that the body distinguishes a special patient, means from health tourism. [[/The speaker's off, you don't understand.]] This is where the so-called "supposed" is preferable. Health tourism where tourism and health services are provided, and so that is the possibility, and where specialist institutions dealing with the treatment of certain specialist branches are probably impossible to be in the same basket and catering activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79115	Honored representative Ivana Sučec-Thrakostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79116	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. So far, most of my colleagues, with exception, have been here by fellow Mlinarić, and others have been commending the Law on the position of colleagues from the coast of the sea. So, I will say that we from the coast of Drava also support this Act and all those remarks adopted, so I, as a national representative from northwestern Croatia, thank the promoter for accepting those remarks not on his own behalf, but on behalf of those whose articles of the Law in Articles 3 and 11, will facilitate the action and contribute therefore to their development, and I do not have to say that in this part of Croatia there is a strong number of amateur companies from voluntary fire departments to different associations of cultural and artistic societies, so I do not see any reason that in this indent 4 in paragraph 3, where it says: "under the conditions laid down in this Law certain catering services can also be provided by legal persons who are not caters."and then Article 11(3) further explains and defines these cannot be covered by those amateur sports clubs. There are also spaces and they can therefore arrange for their membership and for the general public occasional catering activities that will provide them with basic means, therefore, if they need them for their activities, which is why this moment is welcome and you will find great satisfaction for people, I repeat and the associations in which they live and work, because we have, of course, respected those who live great difficulties, because each time they are engaged professionally in such societies and there have been paid sometimes punishments, and sometimes different ways have to be obtained in which way, whether, as through voluntary division, they are a voluntary contribution or by engaging some caterererer who is actually a front to get that activity, therefore, in annual congregations or in some appropriate manifestations such as the communities, some small municipalities, some small ones would not have enough money for the local people to earn money. I am also very pleased that you have included therefore the fishing associations so as not to be after the problem because there is repeat especially in this part so there are many fishing associations that have their own premises and that have permanent events, so competition and which will now solve this Law their problems. This Law makes it easier for me overall, but also explains the possibilities of doing business and it does not go to the expense of quality. So, I am pleased that he has included in himself the Law on the Hygienic Rightness of Foods and the Law on Sanitary Conditions to be met and the Law on Noise, so that by applying all these laws that are counted as those that need to be fulfilled, there will be a greater number of participants with fewer bureaucratic difficulties, which will allow them to carry out catering activities in Croatia, and I am particularly glad that I come from agricultural counties to encourage and organic production for which Croatia has comparative advantages and, unfortunately, we see that there is no great hearing or access to large trade chains. Therefore, this share on the Croatian market is impossible to win, so it is best to win it through the offer of its own households and in the catering facilities. Here is also where I see the possibility of encouraging and producing organic products in Croatia through this placement in Croatia, which I think is the future in total, as well as developing the specificities of Croatia because someone who comes from other parts of the world wants to taste precisely Croatian products, so Croatian cuisine, Croatian drinks and everything that makes us more special than others, and that is what needs to be insisted on. So, my observation regarding the fact that as a place, therefore, the cost and obligation is a catering facility I respect, therefore, the proponent's refusal to do so, would, of course, be damaged by the tenants, but I am counting on increased inspection activity from the tax administration to all other types of inspections which will therefore be carried out by those working in the catering facilities by controlling their obligations to their employees primarily, and then by the general society and the Croatian state. Therefore, I am pleased that this Law, in its final version of the good part, has accepted all our remarks and that by voting, it will apply to the well-being of those to whom all Croatian societies apply, and all those provisions that may be controversial continue one situation which in other laws is essentially reality. We will, in a number of other laws, make provisions that are conditional on me to say, refer to a future period for which we do not even know when it will be, and that is the definition when we are members of the European Union, it refers to both the National Bank Act and the Banks Act, so it has begun to say the era when we are embezzling in our legislation, i.e. provisions that will be valid after 5 or 10 years, so that is something that makes it easier for us. Then later, when we are members of the business, so to speak in all the parts to which it applies, I am pleased that perhaps after all these perhaps more amendments that the Proposer accepts, we will have a modern, clear and functional law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79117	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Zdenko Micic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79118	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I therefore thank you for the discussions, constructive remarks and amendments that certainly improved the bill itself. I believe that we now have material that we can be very pleased with when it comes to the possibility of further developing this segment of tourism activity because hospitality is extremely important and in any case a segment that has been growing recently by number of catering facilities and by number of beds therefore and by income and clearly in this segment and by the grey economy. We've been working together with the State Inspectorate. These mandates, measures, increased powers of the inspectorate are certainly better prepared and season 2007. All your remarks, especially when camping is also about amateur and sports clubs, scouts, we will later add them to the bill itself. I, too, believe that this law, apart from consumer protection, public order and peace in the tourist season, will protect the reputation of Croatian tourism and the level of quality that we offer. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79119	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing at 15.00 hours with a debate on the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Extra for Children. Final proposal of the Household Activity Act. The amendments were submitted by the Tourism Committee, the HNS Representatives' Club, MP Mirjana Brnadic and the Government of the Republic of Croatia after the deadline. We're going to have to vote on the government's amendments to discuss and vote on this before the deadline expires. Amendment 1. Amendment 1. So who's in favour of having that amendment debated and voted on it. We vote manually. Thank you. Most of it's enough. Amendment 2. Good to see you, too. Amendment 1, State Secretary Zdenko Micic, please explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79121	It is not accepted on the grounds that the catering activity...... What about Vladin? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Excuse me. We consider... The list of legal entities referred to in Article 3(2) shall be entered in the list of legal entities referred to in Article 3(2). The final proposal of the Household Activity Act, which was missed in the final draft of the Law, since it was assessed that these associations also have a need and reason to carry out the basic activities of the Association. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79122	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. ... How is it not that amendment? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Amendment 1 to the government, that's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79123	Yes, Amendment 1. Sustained, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79124	How's that? Secretary of State, please come here for a pay phone. Explain Amendment 1 to the Government. That's what I'm talking about. These are Amendments 1 to the Government. Government. And yours, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79125	Sustained, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79126	You have to explain. Oh, there wasn't a sound, Mitch. Explain that amendment first.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79127	Amendment 1 to the Government, Article 3(2), the subparagraphs 9 and 10 are added, which read: "The Federation of Scouts of Croatia in the reconnaissance centres for its members and members of international scout associations of the amateur sports association for their needs in their business premises and premises.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79128	I'm opening a debate on that amendment. Just club presidents. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find Amendment 1 of the government passed unanimously with 97 votes in favour. An amendment from the second government, now explain it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79129	For the purposes of Article 8(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, the following definitions shall apply: In Article 8(1), paragraph 4, behind the words: "the station" to delete the words "sports facilities and markets". Reason: Since there are catering facilities outside the closed part of these facilities within sports facilities and markets, their business is not dependent on the working time of the facilities in which they are located. It was considered necessary to abandon those facilities referred to in subparagraph 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79130	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 2. Government. Please, who's in favor of that amendment? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Unanimity with 98 votes for, passed that amendment to the second government. Third Government amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79131	For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: In Article 8(2) beyond the word "Article" to delete the decimal and the words "in accordance with the criteria prescribed by specific regulations governing noise protection". Recital: Since the provision refers to the daily work of catering facilities, and not to night work, and given the correctness of paragraphs 1 and 2 of the same article, it is necessary to delete it as an excess.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79132	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Unanimity with 97 votes for, adopted that amendment. Amendment four.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79133	For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: Article 8(4) is amended as follows: "Extremely from paragraph 2 of this article, the Head of the Unit of Local Self-Government may, at the request of a host for individual catering facilities referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, set a different working time by means of a solution to organise appropriate celebrations, welcome new years, weddings, prom parties and similar events." Reason: For the sake of operationality and possible abuses on the ground, I consider the proposed solution provided for in Article 8(4) of the final proposal of the law under which it was provided that the representative body may, by its decision to organise appropriate celebrations, welcome new years, weddings, proms and similar events, be replaced by a different working time in the amendment by the proposed solution that individual decisions of the Head of the Local Self-Government Unit may, at the request of the host, determine a different working time to organise in the context of those celebrations. For other amendments to the paragraph, the explanation is as for Amendment 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79134	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. Against? Restraint? It's unanimous with 97 votes for, it's adopted. Amendment number five.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79135	For the purposes of Article 38(5) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, the following definitions shall apply: In Article 38(5), "29" is replaced by the following: "28". That amendment is proposed because the wrong number of articles was written in Article 38(5) of the final draft of the law by mistake.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79136	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on that amendment. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? With 96 votes in favour, a unanimous amendment has been tabled. We now have an amendment to the Club of Representatives of the CNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79137	The amendment to Article 3(2) of subparagraph 3 above the words "in their business rooms and premises" shall be added to the words "as well as in the business premises and premises of other educational institutions of higher schools with which they have concluded the relevant...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79138	You don't need to read it, just give me an explanation if you accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79139	We don't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79140	Now give a brief explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79141	It is not accepted since it is considered that the catering activity in the premises and premises of educational institutions and higher schools cannot be carried out by another educational institution and thus not by a catering educational institution but only by a catering institution.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79142	On behalf of the promoter, MP Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79143	Thank you, Mr. President. It was my intention to really help. I know cases where dormitories organize the diet of students, restaurants and all that together in higher education institutions. With this provision, or by refusing the amendment, you will put it there, you will make this situation illegal. Colleges will have to call competitions, find a caterer who will certainly be more expensive than this and students will pay for it. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79144	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment by MP Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79145	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79146	It becomes an integral part of the law. The Committee's amendments to tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79147	They're taking it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79148	All amendments?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79149	Everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79150	The three amendments are, in fact, five amendments have been accepted. Thank you very much. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 87 votes for, 5 abstentions, a proposed law was passed together with, in the text as proposed by the government along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79151	Okay. We'll continue our afternoon work. So, we move to the 7th item of the agenda - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Extra for Children, an emergency procedure – first and second reading, P.Z. No. 588 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia and we accepted the emergency procedure when setting the agenda. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the Rules of Procedure, an emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? State Secretary, Mr Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79152	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The Croatian Parliament recently adopted the National Population Policy and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Supplements for Children is essentially a harmonisation of the law with a population policy that comes into force in 1.1 next year. The essence of the amendments to the existing Law on Child Payments is that income censorship is changed on the basis of which children's allowance is granted from 40% to 50% of the budget base and thus will increase the number of children's allowance users. So far, according to the existing income census, which amounted to a thousand 330.40 kuna, those who had incomes lower than that amount and according to this change to 50% of the budget base will now be able to benefit everyone whose income per family member is below a thousand 663 kuna. In other words, about 40,000 new users will be able to use this right under the law based on changes to this law. What should also be particularly highlighted instead of the current two income censorships, this bill will set out three income censors. For the first income census, the amount of child's allowance is 9% of the budget base, or 299.34 kuna, respectively. For the second census, 7.5% of the budget base and 249.45 kuna respectively. And for the third income census, the child's allowance will be 6% of the budget base and 199.56 kuna, respectively. Amendments to the existing law also provide for an innovative supplement of 500 kuna for a third and fourth child. So this is also a significant novelty from population policy, which will be introduced through the amendments to the Law on Child Compensation. To implement the law, it is necessary to provide a billion and 700 million kuna in the budget. These funds are also secured, of course, in the state budget. I said that population policy is in effect 1.1. In 2007. As a result, this law also goes into procedure by emergency procedure so that children's allowance is based on whether what is provided for through population policy and through changes to this law can be applied from 1.1.2007. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79153	Thank you. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79154	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! It is a relatively short law which I welcome because it brings a certain material benefit to a part of the Croatian population. The figures, especially in the explanation of reading and the text of the law itself, can be observed, interpreted in different ways. Unlike the secretary of state, I will come from the fact that these provisions also mean that a four-member family who makes a monthly income of 6 thousand 653 kuna will not be entitled to a child's allowance because it is for one kuna above the income census and 6 thousand 653 kuna at this point is about one and a half average salary, a four-member family. Yet, this is more than ever, and it is true that the number of users or children living in families who are entitled to a child’s allowance will increase by about 40,000. This just means that the solution from the law itself is not good because it is fixed, because most of these families' incomes are paid. By increasing wages during the calendar year one, two or three major parts of them fall again below or above income censorship so that income censorship in the exercise of rights should be automatically corrected by the movement of average salaries in the Republic of Croatia. I note that requests for the authorisation or recognition of the right to a child's allowance are submitted in February of each calendar year and that once an approved request is based on data from the previous year. They are particularly difficult in that category of children's allowance recipients, where more important changes occur during the calendar year. Secondly, because I resent this bill and there is no reason to explain why it is not proposing to increase the amount of child support to a group where income censorship is not determined, it seems to me that this is an article 12 which remains 831 kuna and is about children with special needs based upon which the right to child benefit is recognised by a social service solution, so it is not the right of another sector but social services, and at the moment it is about 15.5 thousand. So, for these children who are even more vulnerable than healthy, we do not increase the amount of child's allowance and in these other categories, this increase or if compared to the current one is more than 20%. Thirdly, I cannot agree until the end that this 500 kuna supplement is also for the third and fourth children and this increase in the child's extra amount of progress in the implementation of the innovative policy because I must warn that the problem of the manger and kindergarten in terms of the capacity and prices that are present there has not even been touched, that the problem of textbooks and school transports still at the national level of legislation has not been resolved. So I can accept this as one of the first steps I hope will lead to having children in Croatia not so much financial burden that it can be a reason for deciding on a smaller number of children. But what makes me not voting for this bill is next. First of all, through the parliamentary question and later on, the bill you unfortunately rejected a few months ago, I warned that at the time of the adoption of the Law on Child Supplement, during which you would tell me about our authorities and my colleague Vidovic admitted that there was a really one mistake in Article 10 which we punish about a thousand children in Croatia who did nothing wrong. In fact, Article 10 speaks of the age-limit of children's allowance and states that a child who goes to elementary school at the age of 15 is entitled to a child's allowance only by the end of the school year. In high school children, the right to receive a child's allowance if the missing class is due to illness and serious injury at 19 years of age rises to 21 years in the existing law. Thus, in high school children, the law provides for the right of a child to receive a child’s supplement up to 21 years of age if this occurs due to severe illness, disability, or accident, but there is no exception for children in primary school. Every child who enters the first grade of elementary school according to the recommendation of the competent medical committee in the eighth year of life or does not give God during primary school, misses the class due to severe illness, accident or anything after the age of 15 or after the age of 15 even though he still has no right to a child's allowance in primary school. I am, as an argument, also attached this truth to my amendment a copy of the second-degree solution where one such applicant rejected a request for a child's allowance where he called on that particular fact that such children are not in the law. When the Government gave evidence of this proposal in the Government's view, it is said that the Government is preparing a comprehensive change in the legislation on child allowances, that they too have seen this lack and that this will be improved, especially because it also obliges that part of the legislation be harmonised with the European and European Community Council Regulations No 1408 of '71. And I expected that in this government's proposal to supplement the Children's Compensation Act, that provision would be incorporated. She's gone again. I have called therefore on this obligation of Croatia and I have made an amendment to this bill and I ask the Government and Government representative to accept this amendment because if we wait for a deep analysis and full legislative reform these children who now remain without the right to a child's allowance when we do this, the boys will be in the army and the girls will be married. They don't have time. So it's not about the right that can be achieved afterwards. It's about their need right now. I do not have accurate data on how many children are currently in Croatia but following data on the number of children transferred by commissions to enroll the class a year later and a half later and a half of children of this age who are more difficult to disease cannot be more than a thousand in Croatia. And if the average height of the child's allowance were 250 kuna. Is it really about the money that we can't accept it without touching or increasing the item of the child's allowance because I know that by planning that item, the government couldn't plan how much funds for the child's allowance. So we're repairing the material status of 40,000 children. We introduce a new category of children who will have the right, who are healthy at good luck and once again miss out on the law to lay down a provision for these unfortunate, unhappy children to be left out of the law. And pension insurance services cannot and must not do otherwise than refuse child support requirements. So I call on both the government and you respected colleagues and colleagues to return my amendment after a few years of being out of the law and those children into the law to have the right to a child's allowance as well as any other child and normally to postpone when he was two years old from 19 to 21 here would then go from 15 to 17 years of age. I want to believe that the Secretary of State agrees with me that by adopting this amendment, we will not violate the position of the budget and that we will not compromise the project or the system of child allowances as this law provides. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79155	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club Ivana Sučec-Trakostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79156	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Croatian Democratic Community Club supports all that contributes to the growth of the birth and improvement of the family in Croatia, and this is therefore these changes to the amendment and addition of the Law on Child Supplement to one of the concrete and very effective measures that will improve the standard of families that meet the conditions under this law. And that is precisely on the trail of all those measures that, besides the activity in the 2007 budget, have provided money for it so that we will soon have the Law on free textbooks to be given to children. The birth benefits have been increased, of course, by the lowest of 1663 cinemas, Kuna pardon. For this, 240 million kunas are provided for next year's budget. The baby's equipment is increasing almost double. So she's going to be about 2 grand 330 kuna for next year. And therefore, additionally, according to this law, families are still materially supported in a way that reduces the price of those who can get it, so a number of requests and more positive solutions are expected, so for almost 40,000 more children to come into the children's allowance, and also about 50,000 children will now be in these 500 kuna fees for a third and fourth child and we as a Croatian Democratic Community Club suggest that Mr. Secretary-General obtain information as many of the many families who have more than four children to get into that group of children who would receive 500 kuna in order to see whether it is possible in the existing budget with the existing funds that are unfavourable and for these children more than 4 children to find an amount of 500 kuna. So let's see, once again, what is the number of children in families who would meet the conditions and what would be the amount to subscribe to this Croatian Parliament so that together with the proposal and with the Government, we can decide whether or not it can be covered and that part because we don't have a lot of families with more than five children as much money as we should get there. This is a request and recommendations from the Croatian Democratic Community Club. So we have to say that it means almost 200 million kunas more, and the total amount is over a billion and 700 million kunas that will be shared according to the law and be available from 1 January 2007 when these amendments and the additions of the law come into force so that it will contribute as well as the speed of resolving the requirement that we have more families with children because the data that we have received in the template of this law say that we have the most families with two children from 11 to 15 years of age and that it is also dramatic to that situation with a negative pyramid, with too many people over 18 years of age, and in this group we see that we do not, therefore, in this age group of 0 to 3 enough to ensure in some future organic population that would ensure the continued development of Croatia and therefore do not have to say that all of what we do today and roads and factories, industrial zones, everything is worth nothing if we do not have in Croatia's inhabitants. Therefore, I must say, it has been pointed out that the measures we have implemented so far during these 3 years that have not been sufficient, but since the return of maternity benefits, extended maternity leave and a number of other measures have contributed to reducing negative natural growth and can therefore say that in 2004 and 2005, I hope that in 2006, we will have even better data so that negative natural growth is reduced. He now came under 10 thousand, so 9000 449 were in 2004 and 9298 so less in 2005 and in absolute terms the increase in the number of live births was evident and that it was even 2 thousand and 185 more newborns in 2005 than in 2004. So I expect that these measures will also improve this picture and that we will go towards an increasing number of newborn children and that together with the Family Ministry, we will further improve this law because at this point it is changing several articles. So there is a reduction in the base which is a condition for obtaining a child's allowance and also continues to be supported more easily and more difficult for children who require other people's care and children's defenders. I must therefore point out that I am glad that these changes support the public because, therefore, by looking at the reactions and associations of parents and the reactions of both the public and the press, we see that these measures have come well. They will not be able to solve the total weight of the family they have when they have children because, of course, with the insurance of kindergartens, with the insurance of such working time that it can be a certain part of the day with children it is difficult to reconcile a career in modern society and family with more children, but those who want children, who therefore think that it is better to have one child than maybe one car should therefore give any possible support, should be put at a higher level of value which the Croatian Democratic Community and therefore puts a family that has more children. Put it as a role model, therefore, and as a value to be pursued, and not as something considered a vice versa, which is considered not to be a hoax or anything else. So women who want to have a child should also be allowed to do so through these measures, and then the child as a child's child's allowance has minimum conditions so that with lower incomes it can develop in the way our modern Croatian society requires. So once again, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, I appreciate that the amendments to this Law will contribute to the improvement and I would like to pray best for what my colleague from the HNS has been saying to my colleague, Lesar, to take another look at this article on the 10th, so as to explain and even the relationship between primary and secondary children. To see, then, what kind of interpretation is it, or is it possible to simply bring one status closer to another? So if they have the right to an extended year, so for objective reasons, those in high school might be able to provide children in primary school, so that these 15 years is not the last limit. If there is and we assume that there is an extremely small number of such cases that it is essentially not a material cost at all. So that's what we believe in the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community may be a minimum cost and perhaps a great contribution to the one who needs it and in some way we are equating practice, so we ask the Proposer to see if it is possible to come up with those individual cases until the vote on this law. I say, so far, we've only heard of one who might be denied some right at a minimum, and for them a huge solution to their problem. So we expect from the promoter, from the Croatian government and the Ministry of the Family, more of these laws, which will be followed by improvements in the standards of the Croatian family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79157	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79158	Honorable Vice President, Secretary of State, Honorable Mr. Representatives. Here in these tables, the budget figures for 2007, we've already calculated the amount needed for 431 581 children. So we've calculated the amount of 700 million kuna. Any amount that increases the allowance on children understandably needs to be welcomed and I'm sure no one will dispute that. It's understandable, too, that it's an election year. Social rights should be extended, not narrowed down, and I also believe that no one will repeat the 2003 mistake when those maternity benefits were reduced even though it should be acknowledged that this right had been extended before that to many tens of thousands of women whether it was students etc. etc. In August 2006, there were 224810 users of extras with a total of 431 581 children in a way that 108312 parents were in a lower income censorship. A hundred thousand and 65 of them in the higher, and 16433 with no established income censorship. The law needs clear support. It can be auctioned means when we talk about this law only about the amount, but any progress, so if it is this kind of microscopic small, it should be supported because this social inequality is becoming more pronounced and it is no wonder that so, because about 700,000 people in the Republic of Croatia have a minimum salary. So, not an average of 4500 to 4600 kuna, but 700,000 people have a salary close to a minimum that is moving around around 1900 to 2000 kuna today. Clearly, out of these 500 kunas for a third or fourth child, this 500 kuna means no one will encourage a third or fourth child. But again, that 500 kuna if you get it by the baby is something that's good for you. The table on page four is just as interesting. He's talking about the number of children. He's talking about the amounts. It speaks of an income class from up to 665 kuna per member of the family. For that is the amount of 299 kuna. Class from 665 to 1330 kuna per member. So that's where you get those 166 kunas. The defenders are entitled to 374 kuna and 18 limes. A child with severe damage of 831 kuna and 50 limes. However, I reported mostly to touch this part of the law and to trace between what Mr. Lesar was talking about or wondering why these categories of children were not treated differently in this law. So the other kids have the right to a sort of correction somewhere up to 20%. However, these children who may also have the greatest needs or their parents to receive adequate compensation remain at a fixed amount of 831 kuna and 50 limes. I said 2007 will provide a billion and 700 million kuna. That's about 125 million kuna more than in 2005. All 142 million kunas more than 2003. So it's not about astronomical increases. Let's go somewhere around 7.8%, but I'm sure he's looking forward to it. It is a pity, however, that every parent simply cannot provide for what the child needs today, and the expenditure for children from year to year is growing which is understandable because civilization's achievements are changing, and if we want to follow them, then the same amount is worth paying whether it's a cell phone, whether it's a computer. I mean, first of all, the expenses you pay the post office, to be more specific to the operator. The fact is that angles are not mandatory in, say, elementary school, and in almost all countries they are. But that there is no child who has no cell phone but since first grade what he said between the rest and the civilization fluid that every parent has to monitor, no matter how much his household comes in at any given time. What am I saying? For this category of people, our children need money. It is a pity that nothing more has been provided, even though it is about 125 million kuna in 2007 in total, but was secured in the 2006 budget. Indeed, no matter what we can politicize and ask why more money is not provided. Every change to the worse, the better you need to apologize, when I say on top I thought on the worse you should back up. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79159	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, the esteemed representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79160	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, reading this bill, I remembered a story I had heard or read years ago as illustrations and examples of ethically responsible and irresponsible behavior. That story says that one mother took her child and brought it to the edge of the window and said, "Look, my child loves you so much that she won't throw you away, she won't let you out of that window." It's proof of mother's love. Why did I remember in this case that story? It is simply because the proposal and the reasoning of this law, regardless of how it is possible to welcome the intention that, after so many years and almost all of this government's mandate, one of the rights which, by nature of things, should be harmonised every year, especially in a country where politicians and politicians are in no matter how full of children's mouths, children's care and concern for the nation's nationality. So after a full three-year term, after 5 years, I remember not changing the budget base which is the basis for all social contributions, so after 3 years of mandate, we get a proposal for a child's allowance that creates an illusion that there is something improving. Here I refer exclusively to that don law, that part of the reasoning of the law, which means that what is proposed is an integral part of the intelligence and population policy. It's either not like that or it's meant to be said that six years ago that we had a top-of-the-art policy, so here we are now trying to achieve what we had five or six years ago. I can document here simply with numbers, these are facts. I'm sorry, I'm reluctant to compare, but in this case I can't remember that, for example, in 2000 in Croatia, children's allowance due to censors, etc., the child's allowance received 377 thousand 743 children, 2000. 2001. 546 thousand 200 children. Five hundred and forty-six Now you wouldn't say you took the best year of your term. In 2003, 508 thousand 413 children received a child's allowance. For that child's allowance that year, just as much money was provided as planned next year. Just as much as a billion and 700 million kuna. When you put yourself in a relationship, the number of children that are included is also visible then the state budget that we have had is also visible. It is then apparent that in that term, the then non-social government, which did not worry about the birth rate, amounted to 2,3% of the social, state budget. The budget was 73 billion that year, and the child's salary was a billion and 700. With this increase that's going to lead to the insurance of what we want, it's birthing, intelligence policy, etc., what everything here is talking about. When all of this is included, when all of this is accepted, we will have an increase in the number of children from the current 414 to predict 453,000 children, so still 50,000 children will receive less child benefits than they did in 2003 when there were 508 thousand children who received a child's allowance. And the share of children's allowances will be 1.5% of the government's budget next year. So from 2.3 we're going down with all these increases to 1.5%. So much for mystifications. I wouldn't mention this if it weren't for mystified in a bad way one question doesn't deserve to be a basis for mystification, manipulation of any kind. What else is not good in this law, in principle of course thank you God, so that even at the end of the term, you may at least be adjusted for a child's allowance? And that's what needs to be supported. Whether it's gonna be an increase in censorship, more class, anyway. But you need to help your families. But what does he care about here? It seems to me that the constitutional equality of citizens is being questioned here and that with the proposal that a special supplement is being given in the best way for the third and fourth children. So what about the 5th and the 6th kids, the 7th, the 8th? What about those kids? So if it's said that I'm withdrawing immediately, I've given the amendment, I'm withdrawing the amendment if it's understood. Suddenly, the fifth child isn't worth as much as a fourth. It's an amazing story. I went to check it out five times, so I saw that in National Politics, too. First and second children are one story. Third and fourth are second stories. What about the fifth, sixth? Nothing to anyone. Nothing for them, nothing for them. Why? Why? We're gonna get an answer why? Why is a fifth and sixth child less valuable than a third and a fourth? Is there any reason you dropped your fifth and sixth children? I'd like to know that. I've got a lot on my mind, but I'm not gonna talk about it. So that's the reason absolutely not to accept a law like this. The next reason I also gave an amendment on behalf of the Ombudsman for children who tried to ask the government on our board to accept the amendment, sent it to the ministry, and this is about correcting an injustice stemming from the practice that grandparents and grandparents who take care of children of parents who are not deprived of parental care, the procedure is too long, it takes years, etc. They're deprived of their children's allowance, which is not right. She has cases, she has demands, etc. Put it in the law. I just don't see any reason not to. It's not that many cases. And the next thing I want to say about Lesar's amendment. Well, you know, it's not about Lesar anymore, the representative who went with that proposal anyway from which party. This is about something else, something that's offensive to us here. When Lesar's amendment was rejected, I won't explain it, for a little while he did it, and it's about one mistake that happens, my God, about a child who turns 15 and doesn't enroll in that year of high school losing his right in that year at a child's allowance, and a child can get sick, so he has to be punished with it, so it's a mistake. There aren't many cases like that. The man warned, made a proposal, was rejected even though it was said, rejected with which explanation, I will not quote you. That as soon as there's a new child's allowance bill, it's gonna be, so that's what it was a month ago. We're doing a new law, we're going to install it. There's a new law. There's no such thing as Lesar's amendment. So now, please, listen to this fine Ruzhinski this morning, who thanked his fellow Members, MPs on the proposals, etc. and who has shown how this House can be respected. Well, we're not just here to tell a story and politically pursue who's going to who and how but to do something and make and help the law. Well, this is really offensive, so it's offensive. To promise us that this House is bound by the executive power, that nothing is controversial or political or financial and that it is not read at all. Mr. Secretary of State can't do that. It is underestimating the parliament as an institution, all MPs, no matter which political party they belong to. I'm very revolved about it. That's how we humiliate the intensity of people who are trying to do something here and make some laws that will make sense. So for the reasons I've mentioned now, we can't accept such a bill as a club. Too little effort has been made, too little effort, too little respect for the fundamental intensities to which this law is to be applied and to explain the proposal, and so that it can be as acceptable. It's not enough just to fix a mistake, not work and care in three years on the agenda of strengthening the most intelligent policy. This is not enough, and in particular it must not be argued this way that it is some kind of business that will increase the safety of Croatian families and allow people to take better care of their children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79161	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79162	Mr. President. My colleague Vidovic, it is not true that this government does not care and does not care, does not worry today about the birth policy. Mr. Vidovic, you know for yourself who abolished maternity leave and compensation. Sixty thousand women can't forget a day of what you did today because they had to break up their working relationship and go to work. And your comparison: Mother took the child over an open window and said I won't throw you away because I love you. Clearly God has not given you parental responsibility, do not be angry with me for saying so, but thank God he has not given you what you do not have, and that is motherly love and motherly responsibility. And Madam Attorney, are you her guardian, that you write amendments on her behalf? ... Yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Are you her guardian? Please, I didn't know you were Mrs. Attorney's guardian for the kids.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79163	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative of Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79164	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So from a series of false allegations, I will correct one, to create an illusion that something is improving. It is not an illusion that these are concrete measures that will certainly lead to positive results, and with regard to this innovative policy from 2000 to 2003 it was so effective that it was born for the term of less than 15 thousand and 400 children. With this government, this negative trend has already stopped in 2004 so that in 2005, three thousand and 300 more children are born, so this is a concrete indicator of the most intelligent policy and importance this government gives for the family.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79165	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79166	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here I am in a series of incorrect allegations, I'm going to say here's a few. Let's just say the percentage of detachment from the former government's budget is certainly not true, because let's remember the former government had so many things that were spinning outside the budget, for example. The roads so that the percentage would be much lower if they had a harmonised treasure. Secondly, I have to repeat, here's what my colleague Babic said, and today instead of here's top-of-the-line intelligence policy, a lot of people remember, and I know many of them, many women who had to stop maternity leave, run away with their heads no matter what work they don't lose their jobs thanks to fellow Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79167	Thank you. We're moving on. Dear Representative Ljubica...... My sin, my sin, my great sin. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I didn't see, I'm sorry. Correction of an incorrect quote, yes. Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79168	Thank you very much. I would, along with a number of incorrect allegations from fellow Vidovic, who is just strangely politicized by a very serious problem, as the most intelligent policy corrected the following. He says that here is the humiliation of people who are fighting for the ultimate policy. So this government has done in the most intelligent politics only in the last three months more than its government in four years. Too little effort has been put into it, he said, more expert meetings and consultations were made for the most intelligent policy than they had thought at all and said he was reluctant for three years on the agenda of a policy of intelligence. I might agree with him in part, because they did a lot more. For example, their work abolished the compensation for children with special needs. So who is able to put an end to it, I don't think today has the right to criticise this government that has allocated a billion and 700 million just for the next year for the ultimate policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79169	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79170	I ask you, Mr. Vice President, to warn the representative in the future...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79171	What article didn't I hear?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79172	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure hurt, correcting the assumption that I (a) didn't say anything else, with nothing he wasn't correcting it with. He said it wasn't true. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79173	I don't think Article 209 was hurt. The esteemed representative Hebrang, in his opinion, corrected the incorrect assumption that you said that this government had made too little effort, had in fact had in terms of the most intelligent policy and was not injured by the Rules of Procedure. Please don't abuse the record of "infringement of the Rules of Procedure." Let's move on. Honourable representative Ljubica Lalic, club representative of HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79174	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here is the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Supplements for Children and on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party. I will say that we will support this Law not because this Law is so good and it brings such blessings as it wants to convince us here today, rather than because it is better than what we have today. From what we have today, but is no better than what we had in 2003 when, with great pawn, we succeeded in equating children and those who had modest incomes, no incomes, but they had a chest of land and had no right to a child's allowance. And in this very social sensitivity to those most needed, there has been an increase in children’s allowance, or children who have received a child’s allowance from 300 thousand to 500 and some thousands. We're sorry it didn't continue with such a trend that they really didn't find the means to get the children of those who needed it most. I am personally proud to have been a representative in that mandate, which we have contributed to that social injustice definitely correcting itself and we have believed that it will never happen again. We find it unclear why 500 and so many thousands of users are now reducing to 453,000. Obviously, the problem is in this budget base, but we also need to look at what is costing a family. It is interesting to compare those baskets of life, and now that we are leaving this budget base, de facto, or legally, we will theoretically have income per family member and greater than what the law requires, however, let us ask ourselves if that is enough. It's not enough. Today's family lives on loans. Today, there is much less to buy for wages than it could have been recently and what could have happened before. And actually this law formally improves what we have today, and realistically it's... He is, these provisions play a social role, but they have no ultimate role. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They don't play the ultimate role. It is not necessary on this subject to be outsmarted but to be realistic. The progeny role implies that child's allowance would be an incentive for a new birth. It's simply not true, it's an illusion, and in these illusions we don't need to get carried away. Discussing population policy then, we made it clear that the innovative and population policy implies reform of all other policies. From economic, tax, social, etc. And precisely because this is only one segment when it's proven that children are not born because of the child's allowance, we can't say that this law is in the function of the ultimate policy and new birth. In the corrections of the wrong allegation, he wants to convince us that some baby boom happened, so now the children are born, and now I'm wondering who's telling the truth. A representative of the proposer who I suppose wrote an explanation of this Act or perhaps some colleagues who do not know the data because the explanation is correct: the population of the Republic of Croatia is one of the world's oldest with a marked trend in the growth of the elderly, socially dependent population contrary to the significant decline of the newborn. Why do we have children far less than they die? Exactly the answer stems from what I just said that the ultimate policy involves reforming all other policies. How many times have we already mentioned in this Chamber that we must first of all see little and into the working legislation. It's no secret for us, colleagues and colleagues, that today's employee for a particular job when the employer goes to the interview is the first question of whether she's married, whether she's going to have children and whether she has children. As long as we do not remove the ability of employers to behave like this, of course we have left a certain obstacle when young people no longer think about how much, how, and when they will have children rather than think about having children. We don't have a problem with the 4th, 5th and 7th and the child. There's a problem with us and a second child. According to statistics in Croatia, a family comes to 1.7, meaning neither two children. Let's go, colleagues, try to create conditions for our families to have at least two children. At least two kids. Let’s create economic and material conditions that the family will be able to engage in 3, more children and those with good incomes. I'm saying it from personal experience, from the experience of my family. Good income has come to the situation that it is not possible to send children to school in the city because there is no means to pay for the bus. And as long as we have such circumstances, we can unsatisfactoryly nod our heads, but whoever has 4 thousand and 300 kunas has a family of 4 members and has to pay 600 kuna per month, a monthly ticket of 600 kuna just for the journey to the city to go to high school. There are no conditions for sending three kids to high school. It's true, and I really don't want to politicize or deal with politics because we're going to do more, we're going to do more if we really look at the situation we're living in. Guys, this isn't pessimism. When I spoke about the most intelligent policy, when I analyzed the current situation, some accused me of pessimistic viewing. It's our reality, it's our reality. But all of us regardless of political colors are interested in what's not good, and it's not good because we rated it pessimistic and it looks pessimistic, let's make an effort to fix it. In what way will we ensure, therefore, these families and the possibility of schooling children because without schooling, without professional training there is no economic progress in the Republic of Croatia. Today, we have 7% of Croatian citizens with colleges. Is that enough for one country that has the ambition to get out of an existing state? It's not enough. We'll have less. I don't mind the high school opening up in our cities, and I am in favor of being because residents from my region don't have to rebuke some other cities, they belong and their home is where they were born, and they need to go back there, but we need to provide them with the quality of insurance and we need to provide them with knowledge. For all of this, it takes a lot more than we provide. So I've gone a little bit further away from the topic, but this topic actually requires a broad consideration of the problem that is present. Not that I made it up, I read it on purpose. The bill promoter, in his explanation, wrote that the number of live births was reduced. It is also written that this Law plays a vital role. This Law does not play a very good role, and let's say, but knowing that it does not have the most powerful role, knowing that the most common child's allowance will not serve to improve the quality of a child's life but will serve to patch up home holes cannot say that we are against the law. We accept this Act, but we argue that the conditions in which, fiscal conditions, financial conditions of the Republic of Croatia, and the other day we spoke of more than 100 billion kuna budgets could be found and these resources could be allocated to children and, frankly, it is difficult for us to have the means as much as we really need them, but we can move those funds indirectly, we can move through economic development, and we are not planning an economic growth rate greater than 3.6%, and as long as the growth rate is 3.6% and below, and there, in one of the national policies, we have read that the growth rate of 5% of my dear colleagues is not planned for every three months, we can bring these and similar laws, but we will not create conditions for transnational policy, we will not create conditions for a new birth, we will not create conditions for stopping the ageing of our society, and that is our reality and that is our facts. We will do more to our people if we look into the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79175	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79176	It's incorrect to say that incorrect data was presented here. It's true to say that the data needs to be read, they're who they are, exact. I removed the data from the official website of the State Statistics Institute, and they are inevitable, they say: from 2001 to 2003 incontinent the number of newborns in relative and absolute amount, and since 2004 and 2005, there is no record of an increase in the number of live births, it is not sufficient in relation to the number of deaths, but relative to the number of dead at the same time, so I repeat, the negative increase was much lower than three years ago, and in 2005, we expect that the number of live births will be constantly increased, and therefore will reduce negative natural growth compared to the deceased, and the goal is to achieve positive natural growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79177	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative of Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79178	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague said that a child's allowance is not an intrinsic measure. It is a most innovative measure with other innovative measures. She also said that there is no condition for parents to not have the conditions to send three and four children to school. They'll have co-workers because in population politics there's also free transportation of students with free textbooks, so they will. And another false assumption that we now have 1.7 children per family. Unfortunately, we don't, but 1.2.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79179	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79180	... Vice President. [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] Well, here's another set of incorrect allegations, and I've had enough of that, too. Today it is said of pay can be less than it could have been recently. Well, buddy, take a look around, 200 grand will go skiing, 80 grand new cars, stock raids. You have so much reason to do so otherwise we can convince you. Furthermore, it is not true that the number of children depends exclusively on income. Look at little Germany, a huge number of prenup contracts where they sign a contract that won't have any children at all. There's something else going on. And it's still not clear why you want to hide those black colors all the time, say, red? I don't get it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79181	Thank you. On behalf of the club HSP, the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79182	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. The Croatian Party club will support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Supplement to Children. In fact, although this Law essentially belongs to a group of pre-election laws like this state budget that was passed last Friday in the Croatian Parliament, it is still important to appreciate the fact that there will be new 40,000 users and that is the part where we cannot vote against such a proposal, but still 40 thousand new users mean how much the situation will improve for the families. It is also normal that good solutions are also for child support for the third and fourth children of 500 kuna, but still we have to be aware and realistic we have just begun to address these issues related to the most intelligent policy in Croatia, we have also brought national population policy, a state that is normal that we cannot even be satisfied and we need to focus on how and how to correct this black and dreary picture. That's why it's also on behalf of the club I agree with other clubs who said the question is what is the ultimate role of this law. It can't be said that these 40,000 new users and those who will get 500 and 600 for the third and fourth children, that it won't represent anything to them, but still when taking the whole policy in this area is a huge problem, it's still a drop of water in the sea. Due to the fact that we need to be aware, and we suggest that the government consider a few other measures, let's just take a question of how much diapers cost, how much children's clothing, how much children's shoes and other children's supplies, and you will see that prices in Croatia are between 40% and 60% more than prices in Slovenia and other countries. So if we're going to run a real intelligence policy, then we have to keep those things in mind, because that's how it's really helpful, and that's where we have to discuss according to is 22% of all these situations, and we know how much money needs to be allocated to both diapers and clothes and shoes and all the other supplies that normal kids have to have. We hope that within the framework and what we have said in the context of how and how to fix the image of the birthright or "baby boom" which is the part that Croatian youth will have to be given education, after which employment, settlement of housing issues, and then young couples will decide on children. But then there's that big problem in Croatia, the lack of kindergarten, the lack of cribs, the lack of elementary schools. We know the situation ourselves, let us take the area of the City of Zagreb which has a huge budget, lacks kindergarten, we have elementary schools where the course is conducted in four shifts and the City of Zagreb is even better placed than other cities, municipalities and counties, given the size of its budget. So this just gets into this part of the solution and we're just at the beginning. So we're only at the beginning if we want to say "baby boom", if negative natural growth is conscious to start at zero without talking about other situations. Mostly related to young women who usually get a job for a certain time, wait four to five years for the first job, after which, if she goes to maternity or that part ends her contract and we don't talk about all the other problems. And you know for a fact that in the last three years, we've opened new jobs somewhere between 15 and 17 grand. So, without economic development, without all of this, it's impossible, because as this part of the budget can be seen and unfortunately this part of the budget can happen that this part will also be the subject of cutting after new elections when you see how much of the burdens are national and therefore we have to take other measures to make things possible, to correct this poor demographic picture of the population in Croatia, to give such concrete incentives that young couples will also mean that they can go to children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79183	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Wait a minute. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Zdenka Chuhnil.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79184	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, listening to a previous colleague and now Mr Kovacevic, whom I want to correct. It's like we skipped a period. Our children go straight from diapers to school, minors in high school. No one here mentions preschool education that should play an important role in the nativity policy, or in the upgrade of this policy itself. We left it to the county, the county didn't even bring in a preschool education network, ten years after the law was in force, for ten years it wasn't even standard for preschool education and purpose, education and preschool education. So we're doing a partial again. So, yes, and this, but let's just let the next measure be to solve the problem of preschool education, and then send the kids to school, etc. In that spirit... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79185	Yes, but the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic did not talk about it. You didn't correct his incorrect quote, so come on.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79186	... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79187	But you can't fix something he didn't mention. Okay. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear representative, Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79188	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I certainly support these amendments and additions to the Law on Extra charge for children, which ensures equal children's rights to economic and social security. Croatia has also defined its constitutional provisions for personal protection especially for families, children with special needs and powerless persons. I would say that child support is one of the important measures to help natural growth and support families to raise children and is one of the measures. So one of the measures of the National Population Policy that we adopted recently at this session. The extra for the children I would point out if she had a double role. One of them is the most intelligent and social one. Here, we point out daily even now in previous discussions, but I still want to highlight this negative demographic movement of ours. And in particular, it would point out that for 2015, which is so close that we should have 398 thousand less projections, which is really worrying data. We also have an increase in the proportion of older people over 65 and is now at 16.3 which brings us into the old nations. And all of this endangers one vital working and economic potential of the state and society as a whole. Therefore, I believe that the population policy that we have brought is, in fact, a question of all issues and that its resolution of this issue does not suffer a delay. And the measures of this population policy mean that they should motivate parents to make a decision about the number of children. According to studies 98% of Croatians, families and children consider the highest values, and according to research, the desire to have children is about 2.7 and now we see that this data is about 1.2. So all of these measures and this measure that we're taking today is actually to motivate and strengthen that will to have children and create a positive atmosphere. And certainly one of the measures is this one. When we talked about this positive atmosphere, in fact here, it certainly matters, and on many occasions I pointed out here how many children, how many of our births have been constantly reduced, especially since 2000-2003, these data are from the Croatian Institute of Public Health. Therefore, they are official data and should certainly not be questionable. And I have to say, it means that this negative trend in 2004 was stopped, and in 2005, there was already a significant positive movement so 3 thousand and 332 children were born more than it was in 2003. According to the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, in August 2006, it was registered to mean 224 thousand 810 additional users, a total of 431 children. Here they are dismembered in materials that are children with lower income censorships of 108 thousand. And with we have users, it means without determining income censorship about 16 and a half thousand. With the proposed amendments to the law and it is actually made up of an increase in the budget base as conditions for obtaining a child's allowance as one significant increase of 40-50%, we see that this measure will allow about 39,000 and 400 children to receive more compensation. Then this three income censorship and I would also point out that it is certainly a significant measure and this allowance for the third and fourth children. I accidentally listened to young families talking about it with infidelity and positive, whether it would really happen and how well it would be. Here from this chart on page 3, we see in fact that the largest number of families is still with one and two children, and when the third child is already a drastic decline, and the fourth, fifth, and still children that the fall is even more drastic. As I said, this measure would mean that the number of children who would receive compensation would be increased by 39 thousand and 400, and it is estimated that about 49 thousand and 400 children would receive this compensation of 500 kuna, meaning that the child's allowance that belongs to them is another 500 kuna, which I think is a good material, material help of the family, and I would once again point out that this is one of the measures that when it comes to school children that are also free textbooks, free transportation, when it comes to newborns that the equipment for newborns is 70% of the budget base, then that it is the same maternity benefits that are related to the average wage, means all of these are measures along with a number of other measures that we would have seen in the population policy that would say that it is comprehensive and continuous and that it will certainly give results, but just as it was pointed out, I think that only this material situation and economic development in front of these countries have no further. So we need a series of these activities, and what aging would say, means the atmosphere, and we need to encourage families to have children. And I would also say in the end that for this children's allowance programme with changes, there is a billion and 700 thousand kuna, which means for 125 million more than it was in 2006, and with 142 million more than in 2003. And in the end, here's what I'd like to draw attention to. We really had a proposal before to correct this I think the illogicalness that broke the law that children are entitled to a child's allowance up to 15 years of life, and those who go to high school to move it to them if it's a cause of disease or something. We know that children go to first class because of how the doctor evaluates it or because of the disease, and I think that this possibility should be considered and corrected. Here again, I truly support this measure as one incentive measure which, with other measures, will give population policy certainty and even better results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79189	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79190	Dear colleague Lelic, dear secretary of state. I think we need to talk about these issues of population policy at a much more serious level than this one is a general political one. I came back from Brussels last night, and I was just at a conference where the results of the survey on population policy measures in all European countries were presented. What the research has shown is that all those countries that have based their population policy on these social benefits, allowances, textbooks, transportation, maternity benefits have not achieved a rise in birth. A pure example is France. The countries that invested in family services, in kindergartens, in flexible working hours, which invested in the fact that when a woman returned from maternity leave had the same conditions she went to, showed that there was an increase in the birth rate whose example of these are all Nordic countries. So when we talk about these topics, I think we still need to get away from these political ones, so I'll dare say both political thesis and really very seriously and scientifically based on the results they have both in Croatia and elsewhere in Europe, because we really need good and normal population quality, population policy, it's ultimately a national interest, but not this purely political one.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79191	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79192	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79193	Turn the microphone on.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79194	Excuse me. I get it completely, that population policy needs to be discussed responsibly, and I'm up for it. But when political issues are imposed, you have to answer often that way, though I don't like it. But as far as the European Union countries are concerned, we have also read that they understand that they have a serious problem with natural growth and that they are also thinking and that it has already been said in the design for three years, making population policy and that some countries, I have the information that some countries have achieved, as I think, the Netherlands and France have achieved significant results. And what you mention about having flexible working hours, I absolutely agree that in the population policy, we have a flexible working time, we also have the possibility of working at home for families, only that it is already, the civil servants and the tenants could do so, but that this little measure is applied and that these few other measures, which are related to the birth and accommodation of a child in preschool institutions, about kindergartens in large working organizations, that everything exists in this population policy just really means that we need to carry out it continuously and that we should implement all of the local community meanings towards local self-government and beyond, and then we will get results. There are also tax reliefs and everything else that we have adopted in that national population policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79195	Replica, distinguished representative Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79196	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague in her debate said something like this. It's one of the measures of the most innovative policy, it's about a child's allowance, but it's also about a social measure. I just can't accept it, and it's a well-known practice lately, and it's often heard from both representatives, or colleagues from the ruling party and from the government's representative or better said Minister Mrs. Kosor, to stress that the child's allowance is very important for promoting the most innovative policy. I just can't accept it. He's a social measure, and I'm a population policy, and I just can't accept that it comes down to social measures. I'm talking about a population policy that has a whole series of measures, but unfortunately only the ones I would say and the easiest to implement are the social measures we're talking about now and among them is the child's allowance, while the other measures that are of course much harder to implement are not being implemented. But young people and women will actually be today, and I don't feel like we're not just fighting for the third and fourth children, but we're fighting for the second child, and I'd dare say for the first child. Because young couples will decide to have offspring, that is, have children when all their other living conditions are sort of arranged, means when they have a safe job, when they have a home, when they have all those conditions that they have, and when they have, of course, services that will make it easier for them to raise these children, and with such social measures, we just actually put out the fires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79197	Replica reply, respected representative Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79198	... A measure, not certainly the most significant. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] One of the important measures for and the most intelligent but also social policy and that, however, helps families if we add up now, let's say, with a child's allowance that can be gained by thousands and 800 kuna, that's significant. If we take into this three-year maternity leave and maternity leave for up to a year, remember that up to 3 months is maternity leave in the European Union. That we've all gone further in these things, and surely that's not enough. To measure a lot of things, this is as easy as you said. These are concrete measures, and they can be implemented immediately. However, we have what we need, meaning, to strive for long-term measures on which we should consistently implement and implement them at all levels so that they will certainly produce results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79199	Thank you. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear representative Ljubica Brdarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79200	Thank you, Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. All of us who are parents know how wonderful it feels to have children and make sense of our lives. It is also a fact that a lot of love, time, attention, and a lot of money are needed to raise children or children. We're all aware of the fact that we live in a state where we have 11% of the poor, 300 thousand unemployed, where the purchasing power of wages is getting smaller and hard to live. Whether we want to admit it or not, our citizens feel it. We know that we are in a country where it is very difficult to get a job, even harder to get to an apartment, and by doing so, we can make a marriage and choose to have children. And I agree with those who claim that our problem is not three, four, five, and I don't know which child but the one and two. The fact is that our villages are getting older and there's a phenomenon that's very widespread, we have a lot of single men and single women. People simply no longer decide to make a community that includes parenting, children for various reasons. That's a fact. As is the fact that every authority is obliged to provide its citizens with the best conditions for a decent life and then allow them the right to decide whether or not they will have as many children as possible. It has the right to only stimulate them, not to make an imperative request to be born and reproduced for statistics because I think children have to be born for completely different and much more humane reasons. Whether someone likes it or not, there's still a right to personal choice and that's how it's gonna stay. And it's good that it is. I think they have the right of those people who don't want to have children. They can, but they don't. It's far more honest decisions than having a child, not worrying about it and leaving it on the burden of the state or the local community, however you wish. We should remind ourselves of the fact that we live in a country where kindergartens, schools, colleges are missing, so when you're lucky your child's college ends and jobs for those same kids. And while I consider this a pre-election law, it's good that any help has come at the present time to the families because of the situation we're in is welcome. But it won't solve the problem. Certainly not. Like, in any case, you can't even call yourself the ultimate law. This law as it is, I've been thinking about it as a parent and as a mother and hypothetically to act as if now is the time to have a first, a second, or I don't know, third child. This law wouldn't stimulate me to do anything, at least to give birth. Because I, colleagues and colleagues, am responsible for parenting, for such parenting that will take care in advance of the needs of children because they are not enough to bear them. It's the easiest part of the story, the birth is just beginning and it's a very difficult and responsible job. If you don't decide to give birth to a lot of children, don't take care of them and expect someone else to save you. You know, it seems to me that it's a lot easier to create budgetary addicts than really solve a problem, and it would be to give people jobs, good wages, decent lives so that they themselves solve all the problems that the government is trying to solve with these laws. The way it's done so far, we won't be waiting for such a thing, and I want to remind myself and you of Article 62. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which determines that the state protects motherhood, children and youth and creates social, cultural, educational, material and other conditions that promote the right to a decent life. With an emphasis on a decent life, not just any life. Dignified. And for those of you who don't think there's a situation that my colleague Lalić talked about, that our kids don't get school because they're not smart enough, but because their parents can't pay for buses or train tickets, I'll tell you. With us in Vukovar-Srijem County there is a place called Gunja, on the border is with Bosnia and Herzegovina and very much of our children go to Brcko to school. Because it's only the bridge that separates them from that town. Because I can't pay my tickets to the parish or the Vinkovci where they used to go to school in my day. And these are the problems to be taken care of. This government should think much faster and solve problems because as long as this government thinks so quickly, we will really grow old as society, and it will not help us think but concrete measures that are expected of each government and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79201	Thank you. Two replicas. First, respected representative of the Mato Church. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79202	Mr. President, several times mentioned here, and now this throw-off of colleague Brdaric, and her statement that this is also pre-election law, therefore, that this is pre-election law. I wouldn't conclude it and say it like that. I mean, actually, I'd like to argue that this topic, the issues of population policy, the intelligence policy, etc., the Parliament is talking and discussing, seriously, professionally seriously without unnecessary politics, but it is mentioned so often on these sensitive issues in these sensitive groups. The coalition government has made one indiscretion amazing. It is simply some rights such as permits or fees for a third child etc. which materially insignificantly reduced the moment she simultaneously did great things for the area of child rearing. To raise the number of children that are covered by a children's extra charge of 300 and some thousands to 500 and some thousand for the first time in Croatia began to receive children's allowance and children from parents who do not work. It was so big and important, but at the same time it's all over the place with the fact that at the same time some small rights have been reduced that now four, five, six years have been repeatedly repeated and turned into politics on this subject that is too important to bring it down.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79203	Replica reply, respected representative Ljubica Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79204	Comrade Churchvenac, I agree with you that this is a topic that should not be used in a political way, but I would like to remind you and others that three years of the government's mandate has passed, and that the coalition authority in the past elections has been punished for its actions and that we should no longer look back on it. This government is responsible for what is happening now and in its mandate and is expected to do so when they have already claimed to be better and more able to prove it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79205	Second replica, the respected representative of Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79206	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's a colleague in her debate she made some claims that I'd like to look back on. It's said that having children certainly takes a lot of money. Well, I can agree with that. However, the second question arises is whether the child we chose has the right to be born, whether he must have cellphones and driving exams and mopeds immediately, and all possible what he needs, or should the priority be given more children? I remember, I could say, with nostalgia I remember a family with a lot of kids who had a lot less, but they were satisfied and seemed even happier than they are today. Therefore, our point of view is important to our commitment to what we give, which is important to what we will give a gravity. It's also said that it can't be imperative that we have to reproduce, I think it's one expression like this for me that I can't accept, no one gives us an imperative, but tries to give it with various measures to encourage and strengthen the family to have more children. Of course, it should be a personal choice and I am for that personal choice, but again the question is whether because of our personal choice we have the right to see how the church says that we are killing for it and here it is reported so in the last year 10 thousand 288 terminations of pregnancy were reported. Personally, now that I'm looking at it like this when I'm older, then I think it's better to give birth opportunities, so there's a lot of people who really want kids. This I agree that there are children who leave these remote villages of our county to go to Brcko school and for material reasons, but there are other reasons why this is going, but I believe that these are trying to find solutions for these children to get paid transportation as provided for in population policy, which is also foreseen in measures and local self-government and that this issue will be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79207	Replica reply, respected representative Ljubica Brdarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79208	When I said it took a lot of money, I thought from birth to the moment you raised a mature adult to take care of himself and be a useful member of society. I agree that some values cannot be measured by money and are not crucial, but I am also sure that every child should have the right to education, to have the same starting conditions and then to choose positions in life with their ability, and not to have someone cut off by the fact that his parents don't have the money, so I can't educate him and that from the very beginning he has no chance of being more than a low-paid worker. In the choice of whether someone is going to have a child or not, I don't think they should be touched, it's one of the rights achieved, the right of a woman and a man to decide on their parenting that it doesn't help the state to have so many abortions I regret, but it's necessary to work more on education, to prevent unwanted pregnancy from being, in other ways, stimulate birth, to provide an opportunity for this society to be helped by natural means, and not by press. There can be a campaign to promote parenting, motherhood, marriage, I don't mind, but it's all about personal choices at the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79209	Thank you. Dear Representative, Vice-President of the House Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79210	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Of course, I will personally support the adoption of this Law because it is better than nothing and any shift in the provision of funds to help children, especially children who are socially threatened, is welcome. However, I think there should be a serious question here in principle. When will we approach the attempt to realise Croatia's concept as a state of social justice and stop actually arguing and realise the concept of the state of the social state? It's a big content and formal difference. More and more where we are dealing with the state as a social state, we are actually dealing in particular in this context and this is the consequence, it is necessary, it is justified and acceptable for a simple reason because too many children who are actually coming into such a situation that their families and they themselves are in a difficult situation and have a close average income per family head and, of course, there are no such measures as social measures, because they would not be talking about the right of the child but about the social measure that helps him and the whole family to thus maintain their existence and meet the needs for education and education with this measure. What exactly is this about? We need to start seriously discussing when and in what way to start raising not only the guaranteed salary but to create a prerequisite that the guaranteed salary corresponds to the constitutional standard that we have prescribed that in the Republic of Croatia average earnings must be sufficient for the needs of the average family to ensure a decent life of workers and their average family. Unfortunately, in Croatia it is not and we have a situation today that somewhere around 2,000 I think 200 kuna, if I remember correctly, is grossly guaranteed profit, which is quite clear that it does not correspond closely to the average income in the Republic of Croatia and at least the average necessary means for the average family, the average basket that is necessary. In such a situation, we simply begin to question when will we begin to discuss essentially the other component of economic social development and the overall social development and breakthrough of our country, that is, employment and those who create a new value regardless of whether it was workers of material production, those who provide services or whether it was farmers or at the end of the line if you want in the household of household workers? I think that is why we will finally have to open a debate on this issue in the adoption of the country's economic and social development strategy. That's number one. Number two. You know, this would say at first sight a very small shift. Turns out it's over 30 kunas per child. But what's startling is when we make such a small shift about raising the property price to earn income rights, on a child's allowance to reflect on the number of children, that it's somewhere around 50 thousand new children who are going to get it right. So we actually have a border line between those who get below the minimum allowed price of money and those who do something above that so they can't get into that quota. In fact, too many families and households, and with that in terms of children. And then the question arises, how does that injustice try to correct even more? I know, everyone will answer easily. It's got to stop somewhere. Yes, there is a fundamental question when we will start working to actually create the concept of Croatia as a socially just state, which, in accordance with its normative and constitutional legal determination, creates conditions for appropriate solutions. The second question to be opened by this law is a formal legal question at first sight. We all forget that this House has ratified the Convention on the Protection of the Rights of the Child. We all forget that under that convention the right to a child's allowance is the right of a child. And it shouldn't be a social measure. And in such a situation, we will have to open the question once and for all when the right to a child's allowance will become the right of a child who achieves it for its own development, its own needs, but not as an additional source of income to address the social problems of its families. Then, in some ways, they take on part of the responsibility for their own family and not just for exercising their rights and continuing to raise their standards, etc. That's the first one. Another question to be opened. If we cannot achieve this already because of the material opportunities in which the social and state communities are opening up, then the question must be asked further, in fact, to tighten the property criteria and not only the property but also other censorships that will allow the highest degree of social justice to be achieved in relation to the most socially vulnerable. I think that there is even more and more space in that part to do such things and it is a real shame that this law did not actually come in the first reading so that we could discuss it together and try to find appropriate measures and appropriate criteria for this issue to be further resolved. This is how you know, when it is prepared by an emergency procedure as a final draft of the law, at the end of the year when the budget has passed with the additional implementation of some funds and in the pre-election and election year, then you know it gets that connotation that the law should certainly not have. It's like he's one of the means of political struggle and pre-election activity. I don't think we should accept that, we shouldn't be like this, and that question should be dealt with in a completely different way. Now. There's one thing that's pretty interesting to me. What law has been applied since 1 January 2007, so that means that the practical right to an increased child's allowance will begin as of 1 January? It should also be said that this Article 7 provides that the Croatian Pension Insurance Office will make an official decision within 60 days, which in the end line is actually the time limit of administrative treatment but the question of how it will deal with or receive these personal, increased child benefits immediately from 1 January these children who should receive it? Because it will probably be only after they get solutions with a lag, but let’s not forget that it’s about the time when children are actually in the Christmas, New Year’s and winter fairies and if some of these funds would be very welcome for children, among other things, to complete their and family budgets that could provide minimal means of actively implementing the fairies, in order to actually strengthen their immunity and their health. And the last thing you'd like to point out is the question that these 500 kunas for the third and fourth children. You know, it's interesting to actually ask a question and why not for every child? If Croatia is affected by the so-called The "white plague" is, then we need to start thinking about whether, with a child's allowance, we can increase the one-off fee for equipping every newborn child in the Republic of Croatia and give it to every mother in the Republic of Croatia who makes it happen. I think we should start to discuss this because it is quite clear that the trend is not only to reduce the number of children born per family, by the average married couple is actually smaller, and then to see that there from the third, fourth and beyond children we see in fact what this new instrument of social measures could be related to solving and helping, social assistance to many families in the Republic of Croatia. I think that these issues are insufficiently taken into account and that these issues should be asked in a different way. And the bottom line is that it's actually the key. That this is the only way to start if we start to approach and create assumptions that we will start to realise the right to childcare as a child's right and at the same time, in parallel with that, in the framework of demographic policy, we will actually solve the issue and social assistance to many families and, of course, by stimulating measures, to address the issue of demographic policy that needs to enable more birth and, of course, more children in the Republic of Croatia. And in addition to increasing their personal and family standard which, and the social of course standard which can and should allow for a better quality of life and health for all of our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79211	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of the Mato Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79212	Arlovic, you say that many other serious measures, such as development policy and others, are more important than social measures. It's true that they matter to each other. As important as these developmental measures are, longer-term measures also show that the number of children does not increase and do not respond quickly to certain measures. In a particular development, employment stability must be achieved in social status, education and others, so that it is more sensitive to the most intelligent and population policy. So it is quite amazing how people here today conclude that with the change of government simply there has been an increase in the birth of children. A simple increase in the number of children in 2004 or 2005 is the result of measures of perhaps 90 or more. So all these vulgarizations of this species aren't just good. Just as the fact is, my colleague Arlovic does not have a serious basis for increasing the results in this area without any developmental serious measures. However, social measures are also important, I agree with the proposals there. But why, then, please refer to the third and fourth children, why not the fifth and sixth, etc.? and why are some important incentives and reliefs that are most innovative in fiscal policy being abolished? Tax reliefs that allowed you to build a nursery and were your tax reliefs were lifted. Therefore, only one very serious operation in this entire area in the longer term will give something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79213	Thank you. Replica's reply, Honored Vice-President Mato Churchvenac, Mato Arlovic. Mato is Mato.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79214	Thank you very much. Mato, Mato. Whatever you turn Mato's here. Mr. President, dear fellow Churchman. I fully agree that this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Child Compensation is actually discussing the consequences. And I agree that the most qualitative solution to social problems and social problems in Croatia and not only in Croatia but also in every country is through economic development and the creation of a basis for achieving individual and overall social breakthroughs. But there is one thing that is very important in all of this. The fact is that ours, in our economy, is still very much involved, and as the holder of ownership powers and as the holder of entrepreneurship functions and as the holder of market functions unfortunately and as the holder of pragmatic nots and planning functions related to the economic strategic development of the country. And in such a situation, it cannot be freed from responsibility both to third market operators and to social and political responsibilities towards the social community because it acts or does not act to create opportunities that will allow increased investment or investment consumption, job creation and employment, and the creation of such economic assumptions that will allow for higher wage and profit growth, which will enable it to finance and accumulate funds for personal or family consumption without such social measures and consequences. But unfortunately, as long as we do not have this kind of social measure, it is better to protect the socially endangered, in addition to that of the categories of our citizens that we owe and under the Constitution, and it is about children, and that is the task of all of us in fact to protect them properly. That's why I'm undermining it again. I will support the adoption of this law, and at the same time complain that we must deal with such measures as social policy instead of adopting such a law as the right of a child who has his additional allowance to satisfy actually cultural, sports and other its contents, and not as a social measure that enables him to survive together with his family. Thank you very much, Mr. Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79215	Thank you. Five-minute debate, HDZ club, respected representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79216	Thank you, Mr. President. I will say very briefly that as a serious state-run party, the Croatian Democratic Community is seriously supporting the efforts of the Ministry of Family and Croatian Government to adopt and implement the National Population Policy, on the care of the Croatian family, especially for those families who are socially at risk. So this law, when it comes into force, which is partly social, and partly and intelligent, will improve the standard of those families that need it. I must say, therefore, that we have heard some remarks here, but that we have not therefore been throwing ourselves at the debate on other problems and factors of population policy, because here the debate on the change of several articles that will allow access to children's extras by way of a much larger number of children, and that is the most important thing that we want to achieve. And I'll just say this. So, farmers, we also have such examples that live without receiving, which when they get 2 thousand 330 kunas for a child for equipment, which get a monthly thousand 663 kunas, which still get a child's allowance from a minimum of 200, so they still have reason to think about whether they're going to give birth or not. And so that's for some categories of low-income population, it's a very good reception and it's even motivated. I would just say that all together as politicians we have the task of defeating all the conformisms and materialisms and different interchanges that essentially prevent us from taking responsibility for ourselves sometimes, let alone for the family and children who should come and then probably when we all come together, and from all our discussions, it is nevertheless that the policy of all policies should be a population policy or even better said, so that national policy, population policy should be above all policies. So when we do all this and these small shifts, I think the Croatian families will be much better. And this number, and there's someone commenting on the smaller users, might be one more thing, which is that our families are still growing, and what those other macroeconomic indicators show is that by developing an economy which I agree is the basis for all possible and social giving and receiving, it still provides a better standard for our citizens and our families. So what they're going to say is that no positive shifts happened, and I wasn't talking about it, by changing the government, but after a year of working this government, which was the first measures that made it exactly right those little injustices that they would say, and which were devastating, so for those 40,000 that were lost without a child's allowance, for those who clearly said, and now they don't remember it. So I remember HINA's report from January 6, 2002, which said that an extra for 40,000 children was abolished, that an allowance should be abolished for the third and every next child. It was precisely defined that no one had these receipts for anyone. So I am sure that the HINA reports from today and tomorrow when we vote on this law will be the one that will talk about improving the status of families, about increasing the child's allowance, and I repeat with joy those who need it most, as well as the entire Croatian public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79217	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79218	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the promoters, I thank all those who participated in the debate. Of course, the proposer will also carefully examine the amendments tabled on the draft amendments to the law. What is significant and important in the whole story and wanted me to admit it or not, these amendments to the Law of Supplement for children significantly improves the situation and the situation, because if the circle of users is extended for 40,000 new users, if a promising 500 kuna supplement is introduced for about 50,000 users, then I think it is absolutely in favour of these amendments of the law that significantly improves the situation in this area. Through the debate on this law, it was essentially a debate on national population policy, but forgetting that the national population policy is essentially a set of measures, the 60th measure of which this law is only one of these measures, and of course this measure itself will not produce spectacular results in terms of stopping the negative demographic trends that have been present in Croatia for several decades, but by implementing national population policy and those 60 measures that are part of the national population policy, I am sure that these negative trends will first stop and then correct what is the desire of all of us and what has been seen through this debate. Once again, on behalf of the promoter, I would like to thank everyone who participated in the debate and I hope that you will support this amendment to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79219	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Child Supplements. The amendments were submitted by MP Florian Boras and Davorko Vidovic and the Club of HNS Representatives. From the club of representatives of the HNS first. State Secretary Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79221	Amendment to the HNS Representatives' Club shall be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79222	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. Representative Florian Boras.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79223	The first amendment is not accepted. On 24 November 2006, the Croatian Parliament adopted a National Population Policy, which arranged a system of family support and thus an allowance for children and allowances for the 3rd and 4th children. Respecting the Croatian Parliament's decision to accept this document and the proposed measures, the Government of the Republic of Croatia cannot accept the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79224	Representative Boras.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79225	I withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79226	Amendment withdrawn. 2nd Amendment of Representative Florian Boras.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79227	The second amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79228	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment of Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79229	4th, or 1st, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79230	This Regulation shall enter into
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79231	The amendment is not accepted. The Croatian Parliament adopted a National Population Policy on 24 November 2006 which arranged family support and thus an allowance for children and allowances for the 3rd and 4th children. Respecting the Croatian Parliament's decision to accept this document and the proposed measures, the Government of the Republic of Croatia cannot accept the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79232	Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79233	This is convenient now for a formal reason to refuse because in population politics it says so. But I do question the constitutionality of making such a decision. On what basis can a child be discriminated against in any way 5, 6, 7 or 8? What makes 3rd and 4th yes, and 5th no? That remains a problem. I'm not sure there's gonna be a lawsuit, unless there's some other financial reason or something, it would be good to say that. I'm asking to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79234	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law, this second amendment is not in line with the Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. We can vote. The result? With 91 votes for, 3 abstentions, the proposed Final Proposal of the Law together with the amendments adopted. They would now cross over, I propose that two points be implemented, held on them by a united debate, points 21 and 22, that is - a proposal for a decision to maintain military exercises by members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia and the armed forces of other countries during 2007 - a proposal for a decision to take part in the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in NATO Operation "Active Endeavour" Then to conduct the same united debate with points 23 and 24 that are related to peacekeeping missions in Afghanistan. These two decisions are proposed by the Government. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, internal policy and national security and the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. State Secretary of Defence Mato Raboteg will further explain the proposal of these two decisions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79236	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honored representatives, you have before you a proposal for a decision on the maintenance of military exercises of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the armed forces of other countries for 2007. I would also like to point out that participation in military exercises with other countries' armed forces is one of the partner objectives of the Republic of Croatia as part of the implementation of the NATO Membership Action Plan and in the process of approaching NATO on the one hand, and on the other hand that this is an important mechanism for acquiring the necessary knowledge and experience and increasing the operational capabilities of the Croatian Armed Forces in implementing actions of establishing and maintaining peace in cooperation with the partner countries' armed forces. And with this in relation to each year, certain exercise activities are planned, so let me give you a brief overview of what kind of exercise is being done for next year. It is a total of 12 military exercises, 6 on the territory of the Republic of Croatia is one bilateral, the other five are multilateral and the remaining six exercises are exercises in which the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia participate with the Armed Forces of other countries outside the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Well, for a while. So we have one bilateral military exercise with members of the United States Armed Forces in May at the Gasic military polygon with the aim of jointly training members of the Croatian Land Army and the Minnesota National Guard to develop security measures and exercise procedures in the fight against terrorism. Then on the Adriatic, we have a military exercise with members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Italy and the United States in April 2007, called "Adriatic Sword" or "Adriatic Shord" which is actually an exercise in the airspace of the North and Central Adriatic, but I note that without landing allied aircraft at the aircraft base in Pula. So they're just practicing flyovers and procedures to train interoperability with pilots of our armed forces in joint air surveillance and airspace protection operations. We also have one multilateral exercise of protection and rescue in May 2007 in the Zadar County area. It's training civil and military structures for preparedness and response in case of major accidents and disasters. Then we have "Adriatic Eagle", Adriatic Eagle, in September 2007 at the Eugen Quaternik polygon in Slunj. Training special forces, therefore, with the US-Adriatic Charter countries to participate in the urban environment in terms of asymmetric warfare against terrorist threats. A multilateral exercise is also foreseen in the medium and southern Adriatic areas with members of the NATO Navy's rapid action force aimed at training the country's support activities to international forces. Therefore, certain elements of the logistics support and capacity of the host country to provide certain logistics services to the armed forces of other countries. Finally, we have a simulational military exercise at the tactical simulation centre in Zagreb in December 2007 with the aim of training more national logistics support in terms of planning, deployment and maintenance of troops during combat actions. So that's a clean one, I'd say one simulation game in which you train mechanisms, procedures, way of making decisions, etc. So that's about the Republic of Croatia. We took care not to make it a big deal of the tourist season, although these activities, in their scope, include forces and some visible presence of foreign armed forces, will be smaller and I do not think they will intervene with the day-to-day activities in the areas in which it is held. So anyway, we made sure it wasn't during the peak of the tourist season. And esteemed representatives, as it is a military exercise where members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia participate with members of other states in the territory of the Republic of Croatia or outside the territory of the Republic of Croatia, such a decision is in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament in accordance with the Constitution and the Law on Defence and we propose an esteemed House of Decision and thus allow the Ministry of Defence to implement this exercise plan for the following year. ... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79237	Go ahead and make a second motion for a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79238	Thank you very much. So the second item of the agenda that I am obliged to explain to this esteemed House refers to a new one of the activities of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. It is one activity we have not had so far, it is useful to us because it increases the capacity of the Navy component of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia to plan operations. It is the participation of up to five staff officers in NATO's southern wing command in Naples in a Navy force department aimed at monitoring, planning, monitoring and implementing a permanent operation conducted by Allied forces in the Mediterranean area called the "Active Endeavour" so it is an active effort and it is a task of detecting and deterring terrorist activities in the Mediterranean and strengthening security in the region, controlling the passage through Gibraltar as one of eight measures of NATO's response to the NATO alliance after the September 11th 2001 terrorist attack. The result of this action has so far been more than 75 thousand inspections of the vessel, control of more than 100 suspected ships, larger ships 480 used NATO's escort and strengthening control and surveillance, military surveillance in this area has significantly reduced the scope of various illegal activities and traffic between the North coast of Africa and Europe and has contributed to the overall security and protection of terrorist threats especially on the European continent. We think this participation will, in any case, help develop new abilities especially in the planning of naval operations, a good experience. The government of the Republic of Croatia will make a decision on the number, size and rotation of members based on this decision. For now, we're going to send one officer, the Parliament will make a decision on a maximum of five, and if necessary, we will increase that number. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79239	Thank you. The committees? For internal policy and national security. President-in-Office of the Committee, Honored Representative Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79240	Your Honor, Mr. President! Since it is two reports, I will say very briefly that the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security at the 85th session held on 7 December discussed one and the other proposal and eventually decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament and one and another decision to accept it and to adopt it in the text as proposed by the Proposer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79241	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The HDZ representative club, the respected representative Kresimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79242	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State! Here, allow me a few words about these agenda points. Participation in bilateral and multilateral military exercises is of particular importance for strengthening the capabilities of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. And this is particularly important to highlight because there are almost no other alternatives and other forms of exercise that can offer such opportunities as offer joint bilateral and multilateral exercises well-planned and well logistically supported. Certainly, these joint exercises, as I said, play an important role in strengthening the capabilities of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. It should also be stressed that they also play a significant role in the integration of the Republic of Croatia into Euro-Atlantic integration and organisation and in strengthening its international position. Knowledge and experience acquired is important for quality education and training, which is then applied to various peace operations in the wider international community. Certainly, the exercise of these standard operating procedures in different parts of the Croatian army is extremely demanding and therefore the repetition of these exercises regularly gives that level of skill, that level of readiness that guarantees the success of the actual tasks in peace operations. It is certainly not too much to stress, and the next fact that these operations are also important in view of the learning of foreign languages. It is certainly a form that allows Croatian officers, officers and soldiers to use an effective English language not only in military affairs but also in many other jobs and especially after their military careers, and I would say so and acquired experience and knowledge are important for their civil careers. Only quality well-prepared and trained education and training is as I said the best guarantee that in risky and dangerous peace operations these soldiers can function in a predictable, quality way. Furthermore, what should also highlight participation in military exercises is also one of the partner objectives of the Republic of Croatia as part of the implementation of NATO accession procedures through the entry into the so-called membership or membership action plan. There is no need to repeat everything the secretary of state has said but perhaps I will only briefly highlight the importance of the exercises that are regularly repeated with the national guard of Minnesota, which was recently visited and the parliamentary delegation had the opportunity to see how many of these exercises have and some other broader political dimensions through which partnership and friendship with a number of different countries are established. Here, in this particular case with Minnesota. Indeed, these military exercises may have other secondary effects on the establishment of political and economic forms of cooperation. And here, the parliamentary delegation during the visits to the United States also discussed these aspects of expanding the partnership between the Republic of Croatia and the state of Minnesota. Also, you have seen that these exercises are not and do not have a purely military character but that some of them can have great importance and importance because they refer to the training of national, civil and military infrastructures for preparedness, response and management in the event of major accidents and disasters. Certainly, it is especially important to highlight this dimension of these exercises, planning, training, headquarters, training, training in a simulated environment as well as exercise in the real environment. And here, there's no need to say more about what we repeat almost every year. Perhaps a few more words about Operation "Active Endeavour" is one of the most important initiatives that occurred unfortunately after a terrorist attack on the United States on September 11th and concerns traffic control in the Mediterranean. It should be pointed out that for many years it has been the medium through which most illegal trafficking in drugs, weapons, banned materials, etc. took place. NATO's decision to take stricter control of the Mediterranean has a whole range of reasons, not only for security reasons but also for making sure that through container traffic in the Adriatic, these areas from the Middle East and other areas have been made huge amounts of drugs, and thus one of the proliferation channels of this exercise and this NATO profile has been reduced. It is also not excessive to note that these exercises highlight the A3 format, meaning the Adriatic Charter in which they co-operate together in the trilateral framework of Macedonia, Albania and Croatia, and that is probably the framework that represents the format of NATO enlargement in 2008. From everything said, it is quite clear as the HDZ Club has supported these proposals so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79243	Thank you. The HNS Club is a respected representative of Srecko Ferenčak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79244	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs! In the debate on this agenda point, I would like to repeat our position expressed during the last debate on the proposal for a decision on the maintenance of military exercises by members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the Armed Forces of other countries during 2007. This type of military exercise is certainly good and necessary both for the Croatian army as a whole and for the individual segments of the Croatian military as a good military and professional experience. Such military exercises also strengthen co-operation between countries and since the entry into the Euro-Atlantic integration is one of the strategic objectives of the Republic of Croatia, all of these military exercises, regardless of those in our territory or in the territory of another country, contribute to the achievement of this goal, as well as the modernisation of the Croatian military and its even greater professionalisation. I would also like to say that we are pleased that our remarks have been adopted that the military exercises carried out on our country's territory are carried out outside the main tourist season, to protect the resources and security of citizens of Croatian citizens living near the place of exercise and to respect environmental, security and all other standards. I would also like to point out that it is very positive that members of the Croatian Armed Forces will, in addition to the usual exercises against terrorism as a global threat, learn how to act in the event of major accidents and disasters or in the crisis situations in the organisation of humanitarian aids and similar actions. The Croatian Armed Forces Club therefore supports the proposal for a decision on the maintenance of military exercises by members of the Croatian Armed Forces and the armed forces of other countries during 2007. As for the decision-making of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia's NATO Operation "Active Endeavour" its direct tasks and the detection and deterring of terrorist activities in the Mediterranean and that the observed NATO presence in these waters has contributed positively to strengthening security in the region. These exercises will also allow for greater security and efficiency in the fight against the profiling of people, drugs and weapons across our blue border. And I think if we have to participate in military exercises anywhere, then it's certainly exercises that ensure the safety of our Adriatic. Given that the Republic of Croatia is a Mediterranean country, that all activities carried out under NATO Operation "Active Endeavour" contribute to the safety of the entire Mediterranean and so on the Adriatic Sea and that our country is invited to actively engage in the operation, the HNS Club is of the opinion that the participation of our members should be approved and that is to begin by sending liaison officers to NATO's South Navy command company in Naples, which the ministry is proposing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79245	Thank you. HSP club respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go. ... Please disturb the representative there, Mr. Kavrljevic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Don't bother him. Agent Lesar, you're the editor-in-chief there.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79246	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, ministers with co-workers of the Croatian Party's Club of Rights will support the proposal for a decision to maintain military exercises and members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia and the armed forces of other countries during 2007. Finally, we have received a proposal for this decision in the current calendar year for the next one as usual because so far we have had two times that it was done directly even in, before the start and maintenance of joint exercises, so we know how the situation with military exercises ended in 2005. And I'm not going to repeat what my colleagues have said is the meaning of holding military exercises. And it's not a lot of military exercises. So 6 is in Croatia and 6 is outside Croatia where members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia participate. But here, of course, it is true that what the secretary of state said is that, and with this part of the maintenance of joint military exercises with other armed forces, it means that in Croatia and outside Croatia, we also realize our action plan to join the NATO alliance, but I think that in the future we should change the way we work by saying that I in the Bruxell NATO Command don't know as a member of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security as other colleagues what Croatia has planned and what has offered its annual programme? That's us Parliamentarians who were guests of the U.S. Embassy and we were in Bruxell and we were in... NATO Command for... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We unfortunately have all these things that you are talking about today when we were in NATO Command, NATO forces in Brussels, and we certainly need to organise it differently so that before Croatia goes with its programme on chapters to meet MPs, at least the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is the same situation, and for this part, President Seks knows that I am also after this time and suggested that we form at the level of the state and the Committee, means the State Committee for the Monitoring of NATO's Access to the Union on those communications issues and everything that NATO is objecting to, but the error was made here that the decision did not come to the Croatian Parliament because all other countries that have passed this time and the NATO members of the alliance have made those decisions and representatives are, they have taken a number of representatives of the legislative authority, executive authorities and these NGOs. But we're hoping that's gonna get better, too. Furthermore, as far as this part is concerned, we also support this means the proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in NATO Operation "Active Endeavour" or "Activative Effort". This is definitely what we need to support. In the NATO Command, they told us what results were obtained in this field, and besides, there are other, let's say, states that are not members of the NATO Alliance. Who have not even expressed their candidacy for a NATO alliance such as Morocco and other Arab countries because this action has a truly multiple benefit. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79247	Thank you very much. IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79248	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, Military exercises as we can see are being held means bilateral military exercises in the Gashins. Then this multilateral military exercise between the armed forces or rather the United States Air Force and the armed forces of the Republic of Italy in the airspace of the North and Central Adriatic. It means after, above Istria, the Primorje-Goran County and so on, but for the first time as the secretary of state mentioned that exercise was planned in April, not in the season and for the first time it happens that no planes will land at the pulse airport. Then we have this multilateral military exercise planned for May in Zadar County. Then we have a multilateral military exercise that will take place on the “Eugen Quaternik” polygon in Slum, Slunj. Slum is above Buzet. Then we have a 5th multilateral military exercise in the area of the Central and South Adriatic in October 2007 and these where the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia send their soldiers outside the territory of the Republic of Croatia such as a multilateral military exercise in Greece planned for January 2007. That's right now. Then the one to be held in March in the Republic of Romania. Then our soldiers go to the Federal Republic of Germany and the Republic of Armenia. Then in the Republic of Italy in June 2007 and finally in Moldova. Clearly, of all of these exercises, I am most interested in this one, which is under regular number two, which is being held above Istria, and I am using this opportunity just to mention that for the first time, it is not going to happen that the military exercise will not take place in the season. Maximum duration is seen 2 weeks. People as people clearly oppose it, when it was in Pula 10, 15, someone says 20, 30,000 soldiers had to keep quiet but I hope it won't disturb the inhabitants of that space too much. Can Croatia pass without military training? He can't yet, unfortunately he can't. That they will have to send soldiers out of Croatia clearly they will, but what's important is that the army in my court is professionalized as soon as possible. To come down to that number of 16 grand. That as soon as possible before the release of property that can be used for some economic activities and it is known that the military clearly has on, under quotes strategic checkpoints of its property in our cities and it is clear that it should be taken into account and future military exercises should not be held on the coast in the tourist season. So as far as this decision on the maintenance of military exercises of members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia and the armed forces of other states is concerned, there is no reason not to vote for it. As far as this second decision is concerned, this is the proposal for a decision to participate members of the Croatian Armed Forces in the NATO operation, meaning an active effort in the Mediterranean. First I just want to quote this point 1. "The participation of members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in the NATO operation is approved by sending up to 5 liaison officers to the command of NATO and Naples's Navy component." I'd be rude to say it's more like a vacation than some military operation. So there's no reason not to support it. But as soon as NATO is mentioned, it raises some other questions. What are we going to do with NATO in moments when NATO's support in this country falls to record low citizens' support. And on the other hand, we know that without NATO, there is no European Union. There is no party at least in this House until today which is not for NATO, not because we would like to be under quotes in NATO, but because we want to be in the European Union and there is finally not a single country of ten or a new Europe or a country of transition, however we will either call them or be called who is not currently in NATO. It's all nice, but it's serious now. NATO is losing gentlemen of war in Afghanistan. We'll talk about that later. We all raised our hand to go Croatian soldiers in 2001 to Afghanistan. A new NATO is being created, not now more for block deterrence than it is becoming a mobile army that is increasingly moving from Europe and far from Europe and the United States, protecting Europe's interests, and above all the United States. This will continue to burden the budgets of small countries more and more in the future, saying that the military industry will continue to dominate rather than shrink. I only hope that the United Nations, that it will be the Security Council that imposes peace, that it will not be NATO. But it is also to assume that when it is necessary to make a decision that all those who will be in Parliament will be for NATO. NATO must be a powerful system. He contributed to the collapse of the Soviet Union without a shot fired. He managed to impose peace in Bosnia or in the ex-Yugoslavia area, even after the United Nations allowed me to say genocide in Srebrenica. However, NATO cannot become a global police officer because it would mean war with everyone, and that would not be a good part of it. Today I said NATO from the Atlantic and Europe is moving to the Pacific, and this will say that it will strengthen the role in Europe as well as out of Europe of the United States. These are the meanings of issues that may not tang this decision, but which should be opened because 2008 will come soon. We'll probably avoid a referendum and we should do it. We'll join NATO. Afterwards, the decision will also be taken by the inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia, but now whether we know what we are voting for other than knowing that without NATO, there is no European Union, and it is probably better to be in a body that decides on global politics, hence global security and where these decisions are made by consensus clearly under the patronage of the United States and England than outside it. However, this generation of MPs not this call but the next one will certainly make a decision that will tang the Republic of Croatia after entering that association not for the next 10 but assumes 20, 30, and perhaps several years as the decision to send Croatian soldiers to Afghanistan was made in this House in 2001. That's what I'm going to say, and I'm going to say that NATO's decision is going to tang this country for decades. However, regardless of all this, it is necessary to leave clear the next assembly of parliaments, and this decision on active efforts in the Mediterranean should be supported in my court because it is about operations that are not backed up with no risk at all. On the other hand, part of Croatian officers are actively involved in certain processes that can benefit the next day and those to whom they transfer their knowledge.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79249	Thank you. The SDP club is a respected deputy president of Dom Mato Arlovic. What? And how's the correction? You picked up the bat. That took two minutes to lift that stick. Pick it up, come on. Come on. Here's a correction to the incorrect quote, but don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79250	Here's when you gave me the word NATO lost the war in Afghanistan. That's not true. The unacceptable form of misinformation of the Croatian public and indirectly affects the drop in NATO support. True, NATO is expanding its mission in Afghanistan from Kabul to all parts of Afghanistan in particular to the south and east and reinforced struggles are the consequences of these facts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79251	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79252	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, you know, when it comes to whether NATO is losing or not to lose war in Afghanistan, it should be kept in mind that NATO did not go to war in Afghanistan at all, but rather to maintain, maintain peace, not to establish peace under chapter seven of the United Nations Charter, which would actually be a war operation. But that's what you need to know. It's a big, big difference compared to what really is the situation in Afghanistan. But to return to these two decisions we have united. Look, we from the SDP Representatives Club will support both of these decisions, and in particular the proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the NATO training operation and the actual training of our members of the Armed Forces, the seven of them who should go to Naples. It's very important here to point out and see a few very important things. First. The armed forces of the Republic of Croatia will participate in a project that is actually aimed at detecting and deterring terrorist activities in the Mediterranean and in this context particularly overseeing and participating in the surveillance of more than 75,000 vessels as it says here in the explanation, controlling hundreds of suspicious ships and not listing everything NATO has done. What does it matter? First of all, we're a Mediterranean country. Second. The Republic of Croatia geopolitically belongs to the area through which some of the directions are related to organised crime, drug trafficking and people, but also terrorist, possible terrorist activities. Thirdly, the Republic of Croatia is preparing to approach the creation of its own strategies, defences of its own maritime space, and in this respect we still doubt whether our coast guard will be conceived by a civilian component or by a military component. But in both variants, we actually have to have trained and trained people working on this. And in that context, it's very important that we keep that in mind. Thus, through these operations, we have the ability to acquire knowledge and skills to perform jobs not only in collaboration with NATO, members of NATO forces, but also, among other things, to protect our own territorial space, of course, and the values that we share with others. In addition, the Republic of Croatia is a signatories, signatories of the Convention on the fight against terrorism and organised crime and, among other things, our space is actually being tested for the achievement of this Convention. So by nature of things this is an excellent opportunity for us to participate in a large project with relatively small means that enables very important opportunities to acquire knowledge and knowledge about the establishment of not only discovery and... terrorist activities but also related to surveillance, communication and then logistics support, and cooperation from the use of the most modern technology that we unfortunately still do not have, but does not mean that we will not be able to do part of it and that we will have to join the European Union and NATO system tomorrow. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I mean here, above all, satellite navigation technology and satellite technology used for early detection and pre-warning of certain movements, not only of the vessel but also of the person. We therefore again underline, support this decision, as we also feel that we should take great care to send the best-quality people who, according to their age, education and other structures, are able to actually achieve maximum results and at the same time adopted knowledge and skills that they will have to carry here and educate the new staff that will appear. A further important argument, Croatia belongs together with Macedonia and Albania, specifically signed by the Adriatic Charter, which will have to take over one of these tasks in its common space today. Therefore, we will have to have quality equipped men. The same thing as the Black Sea and the Ionian Sea are doing now already Romania, Bulgaria and Turkey. Therefore, we must be aware of these things and be aware that we must contribute, contribute to the common security of Europe in order to have the full individual security of our state community. For this reason, we are again undermining such operations, which will allow five of our members, officers, to be equipped and able in the NATO Navy Command in Naples, because it is actually commendable to the initiative. And we should thank NATO for giving us this opportunity on the one hand. On the other hand, to praise not only the Ministry of Defence but also the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, who have created such conditions with their activities, that they recognise in NATO that they can participate in these operations and send their people to operations and preparations. You know, it's a very important piece of information for one more thing. This is highly valued not only as the training and equipment of our army on the internal agenda but also as the possibility of military participation in joint operations and joint action with international forces, as well as in joining the NATO alliance today. That's the first thing. The second thing goes on and on about these exercises that we are now planning or planned by our representatives of the Armed Forces and the Ministry of Defense. And we have to say right away that we at the SDP club are also looking forward to that for the first time have come up with a proposal for a decision to maintain these exercises, both in the country and out of the country for the next year of this year. Secondly, we are pleased that this came immediately after the adoption of the budget of the Republic of Croatia, from which it is apparent that, exercise, for members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the necessary funds are provided. Thirdly, it is also very important for us to get this information that, through participation in military exercises, the Republic of Croatia and its Armed Forces participate and strengthen the implementation of activities related to the MAP plan, which is actually very important, which is being monitored, assessed and assessed by the relevant NATO members to bring Croatia closer to NATO. Therefore, when we add everything together, we must say that in this respect we strongly support the participation of the Republic of Croatia and its Armed Forces in military, international military exercises and we believe and agree that they are of interest to the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia may be a little overstated here to say about the Republic of Croatia. But possible consequences related to the recognition of the ability of the Republic of Croatia and its Armed Forces to perform such complex tasks along with international NATO entry forces can then also have a consequent interest in the Republic of Croatia. And that's why we support this part. There are a few things you'd like to point out in particular. It's actually about ensuring the implementation of the Business Protection Act. Of course, a whole series of other international conventions that we have adopted and implementing laws that we have passed on to environmental protection of the fore and fauna in the areas where these exercises will be held. In view of the exercises within the Republic of Croatia, it is in the area of Slavonia Gasinci, then the Central and Northern Adriatic, and then as you see the Zadar County or the Central Adriatic, etc., all the way to the area of the Central and Southern Adriatic that should take place, of course, at the end and at the simulation centre in Zagreb. You see, in these areas there are very valuable complexes practically flora and fauna that are protected either through parks of nature or through national parks close to possible maintenance exercises. And that is why we recommend, we require that, in fact, it would be very good for the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces to make a very parallel implementation plan for the protection of potential endangered goods, and in particular, we stress if there is a threat to some of the good ways of getting rid of them after the exercise. It must not be forgotten that such things can happen, since it is not only about using often times school but also about combat ammunition that can also be loaded with so-called. Weak uranium or whatever the experts call it, I don't know. But in such a situation, it is certainly necessary to remove and resuscitate everything after these exercises are held. And that's why we say again to ensure quality protection of flora and fauna. They are, of course, at the end of the people in that space. A third thing we'd like to emphasize in particular. In going to military exercises outside the Republic of Croatia, and as seen here for Greece, Romania, Armenia, Italy, Moldova, Ukraine, it is very important to indicate that we are actually taking part on the one hand with countries that are members of the European Union or will be members of the European Union, members of NATO, members of NATO and members who are not members of NATO but are in the Partnership for Peace. So it's very important for us here to assess two things. How to provide with countries where we are involved with the Partnership for Peace when we participate in these exercises with that component of implementation of the map around the Partnership for Peace, which is assessed by NATO authorities and bodies in order to get positive elements for NATO entry on the one hand and on the other hand, in cooperation with those who are members of NATO and the European Union, in fact, to adopt as high-quality knowledge and skills as necessary for the development of those components that we prefer and offer when we join NATO, which is primarily the force for rapid intervention, the military police and, of course, the medical corps, and therefore, withdrawing and as a fourth component a very important issue, is very important in this part to develop cooperation with the civil sector. These exercises don't cover it any more. They include members of the Armed Forces in the so-called armed forces. humanitarian function, but we are asking a question, and the civil sector, as a rule, participates in this humanitarian function through the organization and operation of the Red Cross in providing services. That part isn't actually planned when it comes to our armed component, but that's why with members of the United States Armed Forces in particular, it's often planned and included. This should be taken into account for a simple reason because it is one of the criteria for assessing the skills and adjustments for the new roles of the NATO system, the armed component when it enters the NATO system. So we have to develop this part because often it's taken uniformly as if NATO's system is not in the phase of change, as if it's a statistical category. No, it's a very dynamic category and NATO's system is at this moment in exceptional changes that should actually meet the new requirements of global processes in economic, political and any other social event in the modern world. Therefore, very important exercises, very important exercises and the last thing that we want to say in this context, we were particularly pleased about the exercises within the Republic of Croatia, that it was able to run as many accounts as possible that they did not cover the main tourist season, and we would be even more pleased to avoid the beginning of the pre-season and sub-season when it comes to these exercises that take place in September and May in our area, but, of course, we should also take care of the issue and the needs of the military component itself. So let me get this straight. We will also support one decision as well as all these decisions on the participation of the armed component, part of the armed component of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in carrying out military exercises both in the Republic of Croatia and outside the Republic of Croatia, and of course all of our boys who will participate in these exercises want a lot of success and, above all, a lot of health and that without any consequences, injuries and consequences end all these exercises to the benefit of all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79253	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on these two points. Ladies and gentlemen, please determine the quorum. Please tell me someone might not have turned on? A colleague of Rosic's. The result? 102. Let's go. Proposal for a decision to maintain military exercises of members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia and the armed forces of other countries during 2007. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. The decision requires a two-thirds majority of the votes of all MPs, Article 7, paragraph 2. The Constitution at least 102 votes in favour. Please, let's get on with it. The result? With 103 votes in favour and one abstention, the proposed decision was taken.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79276	Dear Mr. President, esteemed ladies and gentlemen of the council. In front of you is the Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the Peace Mission (ISAF) in Afghanistan for the period March-West 2006. The report is requested in order to look at all aspects of the involvement of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in this Peace Mission and to provide appropriate evaluations and conclusions on further participation in the Peace Mission. A peacekeeping mission in Afghanistan/ISAF is a NATO-led mission, and is being held in accordance with the mandate of the United Nations. By October 2006, this mission worked in accordance with Security Council Resolution 1623, and its mandate was extended to the new Resolution 1707. The Republic of Croatia participates in the ISAF mission. The ISAF headquarters is located in Kabul, the capital of Afghanistan. Under his command are five regional commands: north, south, east and west, while the fifth regional capital command, which includes the capital, has been forming since the spring of this year. The Croatian contingent is situated at locations in the areas of the regional command north where the leading country is the Federal Republic of Germany, the regional command west where the leading country of Italy, the regional command south where the leading country of Great Britain and the regional capital command where the leading country of France is. The national commander of the contingent, Croatia's national continent, is located in Kabul at the Verhaus camp so that it has the possibility of direct contact with the structures of ISAF and with the operational centre and the main headquarters of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. At every location where the parts of the Croatian contingent are located, the oldest officers are designated as commanders. The Croatian contingent includes the following... in the ISAF mission: the dedicated organized force of the Military Police, the medical team, the dedicated organized forces and infantry, the operational mentoring team for the relationship and the mobile monitoring team for the relationship. The other components are: national support elements, national intelligence groups providing support and fulfilling the conditions for the proper operation of the Croatian national contingent. At the headquarters of ISAF Command and Regional Command, our commanding officers are also north. On 31 October 2006, there were 148 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Intentionally organised forces of the Military Police are carrying out their tasks as part of the multinational Military Police Regional Capital Command. The operational mentoring team for the relationship has different tasks depending on the level of troops of the Afghan National Army... to which it has been assigned, its primary responsibility is to ensure advanced training in the form of guidance, teaching and training and mentoring of the ANE unit with the aim of successfully developing their existing abilities. [[You don't understand.]] The operational mentor team operates in Ernam, working with other training groups and on the ground when supporting the planning and conducting operations of the Afghan army. From April to September 2006, OMLOT members were deployed within the regional command of the north in the Mazarisharif and Mayan cities. Since then, according to the rotations of the ANE units that mentor go south and OMLOT is referred to the Handahar area. The task of a mobile monitoring team to connect, co-control and patrol certain territory, establish and maintain links with local leaders and cooperate with local police, which is very important. The operation of the PRT or the provincial reconstruction teams is a direct and most important contribution from NATO to the enlargement, rule of law and legal Afghan authorities. Military action in the PRT is primarily designed to support civilian parts in order to build trust and a security environment for action. The dedicated organised infantry forces organised at the level of pedestrian water are used in the regional command of the north, Mazarishirif, for the insurance of the airport and the patrol around the base. A medical team involving doctors and 3 medical technicians are part of a combined medical team of US-Adriatic Charter countries at the Greek military hospital at Kabul International Airport. The national element of support provides logistical support to the Croatian contingent, members of the national element of support are deployed in the regional command of the north and the regional command of Capital. The National Intelligence Group shall provide intelligence and security support to the national contingent and shall cooperate with other national intelligence groups and the ISAF command. Staff officers and officers shall carry out their duties under the ISAF Command and Regional Commands. They're assigned to intelligence, operational, logistics and other duties. The training and preparation of parts of the Croatian contingent is carried out in the Republic of Croatia and abroad in cooperation with the leading countries in regional commands, where members of Croatian contingents, Germany and Lithuania are deployed. In order to improve the living conditions and activities of the Croatian contingent in all locations, the signature of the Memorandum of Understanding and Technical Agreements with the defence ministries of other participating countries has been signed or are under way. The provision of contingents in the field of operations shall be carried out using the air transport capacity of the countries with which the Croatian contingent participates in this operation, the mission. Supply refers to spare parts, ammunition, fixed assets, and in case of need, clothing and footwear supply may be included. The Republic of Croatia provides the Croatian contingent in the field of ISAF with adequate living conditions at the level of conditions provided by other countries. In technical equipment, we are not behind any other partner countries that are involved in this mission. The competent authority of the Republic of Croatia organised official visits to members of the Croatian Contingent, so in April 2006, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and State Secretary of the Ministry of Defence visited the Armed Forces in Afghanistan, and in late November, I personally visited with representatives of the General Staff with our contingent on this mission. During the period covered by the report, there has been a deterioration of the security situation throughout the Afghanistan area, uncertainty and an increase in threats is explained by increasing the intensity of anti-terrorism operations carried out by... The forces and the Afghan army. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because at one point, the Taliban and its opponents tried to respond to enhanced and intensified anti-terrorist operations with their operations, and it is a special pleasure that the situation was calmed down during November. By extending the ISAF mission area to the entire Afghanistan area with an emphasis on the southern area, which until then fell only under the authority of the operation of the anti-terrorist coalition Endouring Freedom, there was a wider deployment of the Croatian contingent, although the activities of the Croatian contingent have not been changed. And I also use this opportunity to address the parliamentary representatives and to make it clear that the members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia did not at any time exceed the powers and functions of the ISAF mission. They are not there in combat functions, but in functions such as that said by the respected Vice President Arlovic, in the post of support for peace insurance. Members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia may act solely in self-defense. Members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia have never had or used offensive combat activities during that period. All members of the Croatian contingent in the ISAF mission professionally and responsibly carried out their duties. On several occasions, special praises were given to the mission's command. The cost of the Croatian contingent in this peacekeeping mission in the period from 1 March to 31 October was 47 million and 700 thousand kuna. In connection with the participation of members of the Croatian contingent in the peace mission in Afghanistan from 1 March to 31 October 2006, it can be concluded that members of the Croatian Armed Forces during this period as well as the tasks assigned so far were responsible and professional in contributing to their participation towards the ultimate objective of this mission. The Republic of Croatia has significantly expanded our participation in the mission, introducing new dedicated organised forces and extending the area of action, taking into account that for each new rotation of the ISAF mission, the participating countries are competing for seats of staff officers and officers. Croatia has maintained its positions in ISAF's command in the regional command of the north and the multinational military police in Kabul thanks to good assessments of its staff officers and officers. A significant and highly rated contribution from our members to the peace mission in Afghanistan promotes the reputation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia as well as the international position of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79277	Thank you. Let's go to the second motion for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79278	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In a peace mission in Afghanistan in 2003 to 2006, the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia showed their high professionalism, becoming a reliable partner for NATO's armed forces. The Croatian Parliament's decision of July 2005 approved up to 150 members of the Armed Forces and the mandate of this participation in this number of soldiers from 31.12. this year. In order to achieve our strategic goals, membership in the European Union, NATO, in order for Croatia to contribute to ensuring world peace and stability, in the view of Croatia as a responsible country that it must make its contribution, it is also necessary to increase the number of our participants in the peace mission in Afghanistan. This increase in the number of soldiers in international peacekeeping missions is also foreseen by the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2006 to 2015 adopted by this High House at a session in July this year, and a gradual improvement in the number of members of the Armed Forces in international military and peace operations is foreseen. For 2007, the total number in peacekeeping operations was estimated to be up to 300 members, and 400 members in 2008. I particularly stress that this number refers to all forms of participation, meaning those peace missions led by the UN, the pension of the NATO-led mission and the peace mission led by the operational European Union as part of its common European security and defence policy. Currently in ISAF, there are 38 members of the military police, 4 members of the media team, 10 staff members, 42 members of the dedicated organized forces, infantry, 7 members of the monitoring team for the connection or motto, 29 members of the operational-mentor team for... , 4 members of the national command and 8 members of the national support element and 6 members of the national intelligence element, totalling 148 members. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With this new proposal for a decision, the Government proposes that this House adopt and approve participation with a number of increasing existing forces by increasing the number of participants in the ISAF mission, primarily by strengthening our forces in mission commands, by increasing the number of members of the national logistic support team, the National Intelligence Support Team, and by increasing the number of staff in the ISAF mission's national command. The security ruling by regional division in Afghanistan shows that the situation must have been assessed with a degree... with significance for the Kabul area as well as for the area of the north and south, except for the area of the west where the degree of threat is somewhat lower. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The increase in activities directed against ISAF troops is the result of enhanced international engagement in Afghanistan, success and effectiveness in the performance of the task, determination to stabilise the security situation and achieve the necessary preconditions for the country's democratisation unit. Dear gentlemen of Parliament, it is very important here to say that the Ministry of Defence has proposed that the government participate in those functions and those tasks for which Croatian soldiers are qualified and fully equipped. We have made it very clear and loud, at this point Croatia has neither, nor wants to take on the aggressive fighting functions, we are doing those functions that are particularly appreciated. It's a more significant participation in the provincial... We want to help their soldiers, officers and officers to adopt a certain level of ability and ultimately take responsibility for the situation in their country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The 2007 state budget provides the necessary funding, predicting that in 2007 the cost of peacekeeping missions will total around 219 million kuna, have been launched or already agreed on procedures for obtaining the necessary funds. You are giving important support to Croatian soldiers on the mission, and you gentlemen are giving parliamentary representatives, therefore I am using this opportunity through the Presidency of the Parliament and through our parent committee to invite parliamentary representatives to visit our troops on the mission because this is a significant support that they highly appreciate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79279	Thank you. Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, Committee President-in-Office Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79280	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. At the 85th session held on 7 December 2006, the Committee also discussed the participation of members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in a peacekeeping mission in Afghanistan called ISAF and the Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in a peacekeeping mission in Afghanistan called ISAF. Following the discussion, the Committee unanimously adopted the Report on the participation of members of the Croatian Armed Forces in the ISAF Peace Mission in Afghanistan between 1 March 2006 and 31 October 2006 and the majority of votes on the participation of members of the Croatian Armed Forces in the peace mission in Afghanistan, called ISAF in the text as proposed by the motion for a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79281	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The HDZ representative club, the respected representative Kresimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79282	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. Here I will try to be shorter than the president of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. It is not too short to stress that the primary role of ISAF is to support and assist the Government of Afghanistan in ensuring and maintaining a security environment in Afghanistan that will enable the restoration of Afghanistan and the establishment of democratic institutions and the expansion of the influence of the Central Afghan Government on the whole territory and this is an extremely important and valuable role of this mission. Children return to schools, millions of refugees return from neighbouring countries, investment, EBRD, ADB, Asian Bank, mobile phones, Afghanistan is still under construction. The institutions of the state have functioned, the first parliamentary elections have been held, Parliament is functioning and I can say that it was my last pleasure in the 6th month when I was on my last visit to Afghanistan that I had the opportunity to talk to the President of the Parliament of Afghanistan, Mr Canoni, who expressed his desire to visit Europe and visit the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament. Keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79283	We invited him to come.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79284	Thank you very much. The ISAF force currently participates, as said 32 thousand members from 37 countries, 26 NATO countries, 11 non-NATO countries Australia, Finland, Switzerland, Macedonia, Albania, New Zealand, etc. I remember a visit a few years ago when there were only 6,000 NATO soldiers in Afghanistan. If you compare and take into account the fact that Afghanistan is at least 10 times larger than Bosnia and Herzegovina and that in 1995 NATO forces entered Bosnia and Herzegovina with 60,000 soldiers, then it is quite understandable, natural and logical that NATO's mission on this vast, large and difficult space with the right of the sea and justification spread. NATO operates through five commands, and what is a major and significant change is the arrival of English General Richards, an integrated command of this operation that contributes to the effectiveness of NATO's mission as a whole, certainly that these efforts cause resistance, cause conflicts, but the mission has highlighted the problems discussed in Riga at a recent summit of national restrictions, etc. The ban, so I had a lot of opportunities to talk to people who were in charge on the ground, so they said, we have soldiers but we can't use them. Thus, Afghanistan and this mission certainly played a major and key role in NATO's transformation, and for no reason did the Americans insist that this summit really focussed on problems that were more than obvious. This summer, the Republic of Croatia met with new challenges and they are related to the task within the so-called Omlets, operational mentoring teams that have the task of so-called Comba training, means training, training and training, which training teams to carry out combat tasks. Afghanistan's main security force should be the Afghan National Army and the Afghan police that are in the process of NATO structure and engagement, with regard to their training it is very important. Since I promised to be brief, I'll conclude and I'll say it's a good and quality report. But a few days ago, I had a chance to read a report written by the U.S. Army about their participation in the mission to Iraq and one thing that seemed useful to me and could be recommended, complemented by this report, and with an aspect that is related to the health status of all those who participate in these missions especially by screening after returning from operations. In many tests, the phenomenon of PTSD has definitely been registered, post-traumatic war syndrome, and in any case in time, at this hour, given all of our experiences that we have and with defenders in the Homeland War, it could be an additional form of completing these reports and another contribution to our truly complete and complete concern for Croatian officers, soldiers and officers in this important international peace operation, not only NATO but international communities as a whole, because 37 countries participate in the implementation of this task. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79285	Thank you. The HNS Club, the Honorable Representative, Happy Ferenchuck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79286	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs! As regards the Proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the Peace Mission in Afghanistan (ISAF) and the Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the ISAF Peace Mission in Afghanistan for the period from 1 March to 31 October 2006, I must say that this topic must be of great interest to the public especially in light of recent events in Afghanistan or the first wounding of the Croatian soldier in the mission in the country. Due to some discussions in this House, it is necessary to stress and repeat once again that our soldiers have not gone to Afghanistan to fight. The mission to Afghanistan has been approved by the United Nations, and so are our soldiers under the auspices of that mission. And the main objectives are to help the Afghan government develop national and security structures, restore the country and develop and train the security forces of Afghanistan. So our soldiers are not involved in direct operations, fighting and clearing the terrain, but in a peace mission. It's their function. They have no mandate or obligation to impose peace, but tasks in preserving peace and training of the Afghan army. And members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia can act solely in self-defense. This House has given our army such a mandate and no one will and has the right to change such a decision of the Parliament. Under these conditions and such conditions, the Croatian People's Party will approve and support the sending of 50 additional troops to Afghanistan as part of Operation ISAF, and here it should be stressed that all these soldiers who serve professionally the Croatian military are volunteers. Likewise, none of them under duress went to Afghanistan but willingly, which must also remain in force. Despite the limited participation of our forces in Afghanistan, we must all be aware that there is a possibility of casualties in these missions, which is unfortunately a risk of military work. Asking questions about the state of our soldiers' equipment, I received assurances, and here, the minister recently reiterated that our soldiers had received new equipment, new high-end weapons, new armored transport means so that they are now technically well equipped. What we need to fix maybe in the meantime is, I don't know, are the life insurance and other insurance our soldiers must have and they must be in the ranks of all the countries that are part of the UN Mission in Afghanistan. Unless I'm appealing to the Resorving Ministry to settle the matter as soon as possible. I believe that the strategic goal and interest of the Republic of Croatia is to join the EU and NATO integration, and it is our opinion that it is not good for anyone to use this issue for political purposes as an area of day-to-day political struggle. Under the above conditions already adopted by the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian People's Party will accept a decision to increase the quota of Croatian troops in the ISAF Mission in Afghanistan from 150 to 200 soldiers. And finally, I think it's important to say that we here in the Croatian Parliament all have the same opinion of a consensus about it, about joining NATO. But I'm not sure if we've put that consensus with our citizens, which is even more important than our opinion? It's the task of your reigning. That's where you failed the test. And I appeal to the Ministry of RES and to the Government, there is a strategy of communication with citizens on the subject. I ask you to start using it as soon as possible, so that the support of Croatian citizens to join NATO is as high as possible. Is it necessary to make it clear to our people what are the negativity of NATO entry, which are the positive sides of NATO entry that overpower these negativitys? I am sure that our citizens will understand that and that our support for NATO entry will be much greater, so please, Mr. Minister, here you are, to move forward with the implementation of this strategy so that our support begins to grow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79287	Thank you. HSP club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79288	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister! Well, first of all, I'm going to look back on the report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the Peace Mission in Afghanistan, popularly known as ISAF. I think Mr. Secretary's report should have been prepared more fully. Namely, we Assembly representatives who were guests of the US Embassy, so we were at NATO's Afghanistan Command in Bronsom. They're us, that was September 8th this year. It was Mr. Cain, Mr. Vidovic, Pankretić, Mario Zubović and I. They then described the situation as rather harsh compared to the situation that is now. In fact, we were clearly illustrated that the surface area of Afghanistan was 655 thousand miles [655,000 km] square, and they gave us the idea of what it would look like when it was put on the map of Europe. They also told us that there are some 30 million inhabitants in Afghanistan and that 45 years is the average life span in Afghanistan. And that the situation is that this operation is very demanding because of the fact that it is a weak road infrastructure. Afghanistan doesn't have any road infrastructures, so it's good that we've stepped up with armored vehicles and other situations, but Afghanistan intends, it has one big road in the form of a circle around Afghanistan's borders, but it's not finished, so there's only one lane, and then there's a situation that takes us six or a half days to go convoys in one direction, half in the other, and we're not talking about what it's like if there's snow and everything else. And the situation on September 8th was already particularly complicated and what was not expected to happen happened. It happened that in the meantime, the Taliban teamed up with the Pashtuns, teamed up with local tribal leaders and began terrorist action almost throughout the Afghanistan area except in the west, and this is a very negative terrorist activity because they are being used, forerunners means planting mine-explosive assets, such attacks, in particular there is no appropriate response to suicide bombers, to the missile part and everything else. So that's the situation. And now look at the situation while at that time it means under ISAF's command, so I'm talking about September 8th, there were about 20,000 members, and in the meantime, this number of increases is now 32,000, but here when these coalition forces entered that had that part about the south and the rest. And the military told us they needed it for such a demanding military operation at least 40 to 50 thousand soldiers. Because you know the situation. So, the Americans together with the Koreans and the Zealanders had this part of the coalition force that they intended to clean up until the summit in Riga, part of the South and everything else, and military means when one part is cleaned up then they have to import forces that will cover the area. Now take 655 thousand miles of square. Sixty thousand came NATO forces in Bosnia and Herzegovina, ten times smaller than Afghanistan. And now, imagine how demanding and military and different it is, in particular, what happens is very bad in Afghanistan because the population of Afghanistan was at first neutral. It was neutral at first, and now it's not just that part because it's a fight for narcotics, because we know that the Taliban is funded through narcotics, that there has been an increase in drug production about two or three times. Therefore, all this says that the situation in Afghanistan is more than bad, and in all this I must say that the project that NATO has imagined for Afghanistan is a project that speaks and discusses the future of the NATO alliance itself, mainly related to this part of the chest and the part in which it wants to be done not only in terms of military security of that area that is being cleaned from the Taliban itself but in terms of development and everything else. But what astounded us MPs was the fact that they told us in Bronsum, says Croatia has promised to increase you by 100 members of the armed forces and have told us that Croatia has promised to accept one pack and that it is one of the most peaceful neighborhoods. That's the part, so we're Mr. Cain and we're both members of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, we didn't know anything about it, but we get to the headquarters or ISAF in the Bronsum or we get to the NATO Alliance Command, then we hear what the Croatian officials are, or in this case, they said the defence minister, which he promised and what they would do and how it's going to work. Therefore, all this says of one other part that these things, everything else must be informed of the Croatian Parliament. And then there's that other problem, this why it's so little support for Croatian citizens to join NATO. Well, that's also one problem to find out all this out either from the press or from some other parts instead of saying how and in what way. In fact, the situation of a peace mission in Afghanistan is quite different from, say, the situation in Iraq, and here it's really important that this peace mission succeeds because it's not oil, it's nothing else but here it's about making life easier for the people of Afghanistan. But the more time goes on, the worse the worse and the more unfavourable. So, certainly, in this part, we have to make sure that we have to develop a strategic alliance with the United States of America that this government has missed a lot, has been completely focused on the European Union and in this part, and because of what we asked for from the HSP, which is that we can talk about expanding the number of our members of the armed forces in the peace mission then we have to get one guarantee related to this Riga summit, which is that Croatia will be nominated as such and can expect to get an invitation to NATO in 2008. And these are the representatives of the meanings of the United States that are there, they have fulfilled it, and that is why today we are quite different talking from the Croatian Party about it because we have said it is a minimum where we can raise our hand to refer our additional members to a peace mission, by looking normally again for this part of the guarantee that there will be no change of this mandate in terms of what is being said and that it will try to ensure maximum protection of this part. 'Cause look, we need to be aware the situation isn't good, there's a variety of options to come up with a threat. But thank God, and that was what was nice to hear and feel like a Croat and a representative of the Croatian Parliament. Wherever we came, it's hard to say, and the chosen words which are top commanders or, say, General Robinson, General Harrell, General Jones and everyone else they spoke to about a Croatian soldier in what way Croatian soldiers perform, what a situation with other members it's really nice to hear. And that's why we're asking for this part to be as dedicated as possible in terms of the full equipment and everything else in order for that protection against the potential threat of life to be reduced to as little as possible because normal participation is a peace mission. But look the problem is this big one that normally needs to be made possible, elections have been held parliamentary but this part is slowly going towards developing the security part of Afghanistan. 40,000 of them intend to have soldiers, but the process is slow as this process of training and their police will go slowly, and in that part of normal, the United States will play a special role because it is important that those parts become more and more qualified means that their national guard, their military and their police are being trained, because unfortunately, the Taliban is increasingly recruiting terrorists in its ranks, in particular, which means continuing these parts of the development of Afghanistan, the schooling of children. We know what the situation was. A lot of kids finally go to school. Some production and other opportunities are being opened because if this mission, if NATO's peacekeeping mission fails in Afghanistan, it will not be good for peace and security in the world in the future. God forbid this mission fails, then the question is, I'm not going to tell you exactly what it might come to. So we need to be realistic with the situation. So to say what it is and it's good and this is the defence minister's guarantee that the mandate will not change, that the mandate will remain in the part that is briefly called patrolling, checking, observation. So it's a fundamental part of the mandate that our members will not be involved in field cleaning actions. This is primarily done by members of the Marines, or members of the American army, along with this part of the other part, Zeland and others involved. And that we will remain on this, that we have a guarantee at some point that there will be no play or any situation, that the mandate will change with the situation on the ground and also that we have this part of strategically taken out and everything else in the worst situation. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79289	Thank you. Defence Minister Berislav Roncevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79290	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank Representative Kovacevic for what he said on behalf of the club he would support the decision, but I am obliged to say a few corrections from the content of the quote. The minister didn't promise, nothing is a private minister's army. That is, the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. And the minister only said what he was, as the parliamentary deputies said, accepting a long-term plan for the development of the armed forces. NATO's Istanbul Summit concluded that each country should give 8% of the land component. This is in our projection of the size of up to 700 people and we have made it clear and loud: "We cannot do this at this time because at this point we do not have prepared forces and have no equipped forces to immediately have 800 soldiers outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia in missions." We are doing this increase gradually and this increase is proposed to the parliamentary representatives at the time when we have confirmed the budget of the Republic of Croatia in our position. It is very dangerous to make commitments and not have enough resources to finance these commitments later. The government has achieved a strategic partnership with the United States and the words of President Bush, which is clear and loud, cannot make it more clear that Croatia will personally advocate becoming a NATO member in 2008. If there's a stronger strategic partnership, I'll leave it to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79291	The correction is said to be a respected representative of Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79292	Your Honor, Mr. President, what I said can be confirmed by the MPs who were with me. They openly told us Croatia has promised, the minister has promised that we will increase by 100 members because we need it and we welcome it. They also told us about "The Line" that you didn't say anything, and in the strategic partnership, I also said that this is one way to develop a partnership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79293	SDP club, respected representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79294	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here's to say, on behalf of the SDP Club, at the beginning that the SDP Club will support this expansion, an increase in the number of our soldiers in the peace mission, but we will also ask for two conclusions to come to the decision to expand our mission. The first thing I want to say is the fact that in Croatia public opinion among Croatian citizens there is a lot of resistance and even more misunderstanding of what we are actually doing in Afghanistan? What are we looking for? And what's going on over there? That's not what citizens are responsible for. The primary government of the Republic of Croatia is responsible for such a situation. What the citizens of the Republic of Croatia should know is the first fact about what Afghanistan is. Today, counterpart Kovacevic mentioned the fact that the country is 14 times larger than Croatia. One of the poorest countries in the world where 90% of the population is illiterate. In which wars have been fought for decades or centuries. In which, I don't know, in the 20th century, the 15th Prime Ministers were replaced by murder. Perhaps the most desolate territory on the planet Earth. A country where, by just acting on international forces, maybe one of the most morbid regimes in mankind's history, the Taliban regime, and that was indeed the issue of the civilization obligation to be present there. It's too little of our public knowledge. Our public doesn't know that either, such a banal fact that we all know that we are there on a peace mission and that we are there based on the United Nations resolution. And that it's no American war against anyone but that it's a peace mission involving 37 countries of the world. In which NATO non-member countries also participate, including one Austria, one Finland, New Zealand and so on, and that is what we need to know if our people are going there. And that is not known enough in Croatia. Is it even bigger, bigger problem if I say so daily not informing you in the right way that's happening there? The Croatian public does not know and should know that last year, last year in Afghanistan, it was the bloodiest since the start of the conflict and that in 2005, the rebels' attacks increased 20% compared to the previous one, that the number of killed coalition troops was more than twice as high as in 2005 compared to 2004. I don't know exactly about 1600 members of the coalition forces and ISAF died in Afghanistan in 2006. That's what you need to know. We cannot seek the support of our citizens for participation in our mission without all the reasons and all the dangers hidden in such participation being known. Transparency in making decisions of this guy who is on our citizens, and on us who represent these citizens in particular, must be the first principle to put it that way. We take responsibility for what may happen to our members of the Armed Forces, and no one can be surprised if such a thing happens. But we have to say why we're there? We've now had a case of first-injury which has certainly aroused the public. So much more important is that through this regular reporting and certainly not a nonchalant and irresponsible attitude towards public intelligence knows what is going on there. Kola Kovacevic mentioned our presence and once an interesting visit to Slovakia, NATO headquarters, the headquarters of ISAF to which we had several representatives, including one visit we had this autumn to the Pentagon, the United States, the State Department, Minnesota, etc. And we really have to say that I didn't see it as courteous. All possible commendations went to the expense of our participation in this mission. But he did not invent a colleague, Kovacevic, the fact that we remained a little caught up and a little offended when I asked the mission commander how he saw our future engagement. Do we, by filling certain niche qualities, say, strengthen the military police, etc. He told me no, you have a beautiful province. He was talking about... You have one beautiful province and you pointed your finger at the Logar not far from Kabul and we stayed a little caught. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not because it wouldn't be good to accept. Why? If some other countries are to be accepted, Croatia could, but serious discussions must be held about this, this must be prepared seriously. Because this peace mission means not only a military component, but also a civilian mission. That means we have to build hospitals there, build schools, build roads, etc. We don't just have the financial potential and the ability to do it. Which means commanding one of those provinces. It's a story that if we define ourselves, maybe we'll go in two years, three, five. I don't know. But it can't be a military secret either. That must be the thing we're going to do, because it's about the skin of our people, our citizens, so if you want the money to be notified to the public. There's nothing to hide. So, we have to, our citizens need to know exactly where our soldiers are going on a mission. Which part of Afghanistan. It must always be said without secrecy, to warn about what are the dangers that lurk and most importantly we must be aware that we have done everything we can, everything we can to the maximum, the supreme as far as we can say equip our soldiers. To equip them with both material and technical means, but also knowledge, exercise, etc. to preserve their safety in carrying out that mission. So I suggest that, in the context of the decision that we're about to adopt and the two conclusions that I didn't seem to have made right now, and I had them written. And you already have? Two conclusions to simply increase, to strengthen this obligation of information, so I suggest that you accept a conclusion that may be behind point 4. to oblige the Government of the Republic of Croatia to report on any possible change of mandate as well as any more serious change in the circumstances of engagement specifically related to the uncertainty of the national contingent or part of the national contingent of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace mission in Afghanistan without delay to the Croatian Parliament. It's not enough every six months, it's not enough. It's not a good situation that we've had for the Prime Minister to wonder where our soldiers or the President of the Republic don't know what our soldiers are doing. That's what you have to do. When they don't know how the citizens will know? Secondly, the Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes, in cooperation with the President of the Republic of Croatia, to take action to improve the equipment of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia with regard to the techniques and equipment in the peace mission related to their safety and ability to carry out the tasks. It's a good thing we've heard that constant improvements in equipment have already been made. But if that's not enough because we're components of different units there. We are on a peace mission. We defend ourselves there if we're attacked. But are we qualified to defend ourselves? I mean, primarily here, the transport capabilities of our forces. If we send and if we send people, we must do everything we can to preserve their safety. So here's the commitment we all have to take because, you know, today, we're going to raise our hands for this, but raising our arms for expansion, increasing the number of members of our mission means raising our hands and taking responsibility for such a decision. And that's why I'm appealing to all of us to be serious, and not to go over that duty and that obligation of ours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79295	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Kreso Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79296	Well, here's the thing, though, because of objectivity, you should say the following. It is the Croatian government's fault that it does not inform the public. I'll say it's not true. The minister made it clear on several occasions that Croatian officers, soldiers, are on the ISAF mission and the mission is spreading through Afghanistan. But what do the media say, my dear gentlemen? Croatian soldiers are in the south of Afghanistan where they participate in the American combat operation "Enduring freedom". The Minister of Defence, and the Croatian Parliament has never approved it. That's not true. Therefore, we cannot accuse the Croatian government if the very clear information and facts of the roof are referred. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79297	IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79298	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, Well, I'm glad we came to these conclusions. I'm glad we're all calling out to the public. However, the fact is that this debate takes place at 6pm and 39pm. Maybe it's to avoid the public. And the responsibility, Mr. Cossic, is enormous on all of us. I'm not going to continue the controversy that you started with me now, whether NATO is losing or winning a war in Afghanistan, but I will repeat the words of the American Defence Minister.. Mr. Robert Gates, who roughly said that America neither ends war nor loses war. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You said it was different now. Okay. Iraq's different. Afghanistan. It's one of those topics where we need to be first and foremost honest with ourselves, take clear responsibility, so we all agree from this House through the Minister I don't know the Prime Minister to the President of the State. Take responsibility for the fate of our soldiers in Afghanistan and in some ways for the future as well as for these countries as they do there. My private position known to the public in Croatia and the US Embassy and NATO representatives in Brussels, as well as those in Bronsfield where this commanding military place is located, means the Netherlands, which is commanded by troops in Afghanistan. Today on the board, it's also not true that I was held back as it stands, but I was against it. Some individuals even asked the opposition to be assigned to the command of an entire province in Afghanistan. I clearly opposed it by saying then, and I will repeat now that the way the United States and NATO performed in Afghanistan in the end is not going to bear fruit. I was saying that the United States of NATO in Afghanistan will pass as the Russians did in the '80s. I'm glad that everyone here mentions some of the characteristics of the country, so we heard that Afghanistan is one of the world's most underdeveloped countries, that by the size of about two French people, that there are somewhere around 30 million inhabitants, that the traffic is extremely underdeveloped, that the main economic branch in that country is opium, and at this point in Afghanistan there are about 22,000 NATO soldiers who eat. They control no more than 70% of the country's territory. There are still about 70,000 of their soldiers there, meaning from Afghanistan, or their officers, who train among others the Croatian Army. NATO is urgently demanding several thousand soldiers at the moment because otherwise they themselves say or fear that the operation is doomed to failure. As the former US Embassy says, Mr. Montgomery, the Taliban has clearly regrouped, a haven in Pakistan, Al'Quida is constantly recruiting new wrinkles that are coming to them more and more often from Iraq, and he says he is threatening to see Afghanistan or to have chaos similar to that in Iraq in Afghanistan. In Afghanistan, as Mr Vidovic mentioned earlier, a thousand 600 soldiers of international forces, American, English etc. died. But it is easily possible to also become a new launch ramp for new terrorist attacks from Afghanistan towards Europe or Western countries. Now, where in all this is the Republic of Croatia even though I say it was more difficult perhaps to oppose sending an additional contingent of soldiers to Brussels than it is today to do here in this assembly. My key argument in Brussels was said unfortunately it can be confirmed by Mr Zubović and Kovacevic and Vidovic and Mr Pankretic, you will pass as Russians. Second, with those troops, Afghanistan can't be controlled. With 22,000 soldiers, Afghanistan can't be controlled. And thirdly, I do not wish to take part in the responsibility for the death of a Croatian soldier, and sooner or later, gentlemen will come to this. Croatian soldiers as hard as it is to say, I'm afraid they'll die. And there is no one responsible in this House who can deny it. It is not also unknown that in 2001, when a decision was made to send soldiers to Afghanistan, I raised my hands. Why? First, after 9/11, the international community in my court had to react. The days when the attack on Washington and New York in my court occurred, it was also an attack on Croatia. Secondly, let us not forget that during the Homeland War, the world was very helpful to the Republic of Croatia, more specifically the United Nations, and they had more than 12,000 soldiers under blue helmets in our space in some moments. And we were then, and we are, and today we are in some way obliged to make amends to the United Nations. I am also aware of the fact that in the Croatian army overnight we can find no more than 50 or 150 volunteers who will go to Afghanistan or wherever they need to go. On a daily basis, many, here, as we listen to some of their alleged confessions, accounts for those $100 times 30 days means it's $3000 a month plus wages and then calculate that in six months they can buy one apartment clearly provided they return or if they go to those two instructions on a peace mission then they can spend after a year of such time in that mission, either affording themselves or their family a flat of 35 or 40 square feet. Now, whether money makes them appear, whether it is for the military position, whether because of adrenaline I don't know it, but there are certainly more volunteers in the Croatian army than Croatia can send them out of the country. And I am also aware if we want a united Europe, if we want to join the European Union, then we cannot simply bypass NATO. That's how it was in 2001, and then always until now when we were renewing our mission, I performed in about the same way. What is also necessary to highlight is the following. The mission costs Croatian taxpayers if I'm not mistaken for 150 soldiers about 150 million kuna a year. 150 million kuna a year. So for 200 soldiers, it's going to be about 200 million kuna, it's somewhere around 4% of the military budget that has reached 4.4 and 4.5 billion kuna today. But for the Croatian army or for the consequences of the war, etc. Croatia when we take people with disabilities and reconstructions and pensions of these disabled people, etc. Issuing certainly another $5.6 billion, almost free to say 10% of the Croatian budget as no country in Europe goes for those purposes. This world, this world, I say it all the time, must understand the Republic of Croatia. Meanwhile, there is a NATO Summit in Riga. Croatia is we all knew this, the expected mention, and Croatia will likely enter NATO alliance in 2008. The NATO alliance there is probably all agreeing is the first step to Croatia enter the European Union the next day. If we do not join NATO, Croatia can hardly expect a call from Brussels, or from the European Union. We also know that NATO is changing. Today, NATO has 26 members. In 2008, it means Albania, Macedonia, Croatia will be 29, there may be over 30 countries there in 2012 or 2015. Finally, what is also interesting in Afghanistan is also the Swiss, Austrians and Finnishs and so on. I'm here on purpose to mention very Swiss people who have since been neutral, who are only there if I'm not mistaken in the '70s, have entered the United Nations, who are not in NATO, are not in the European Community or the Union, but here they are we see in Afghanistan. Riga also offered us a NATO transformation. the stories of NATO democracy, etc. I won't comment, but what do we do, NATO is here. Now there's a question of how to move on. NATO is obviously turning into a force for rapid intervention, the cold war is definitely behind us, the Soviet Union has collapsed without a shot fired, but Europe is no longer defending itself, under allegations of communism but terrorism and it does not do so in the space of Central Asia increasingly distant Asia. The fact is also that today many countries are thinking and withdrawing these troops from Iraq, and I claim that this is very closely connected at this hour with Afghanistan. The last one to pull out its last soldiers a few days ago was the Republic of Italy a few months before or not more than a year ago and Spain. And now what do we do? Croatia has 148 soldiers in Afghanistan. In 2007, the next year the Republic of Croatia must send 50 more soldiers to Afghanistan, so they would then come to a number of 200 soldiers, and in 2008 it means by the elections they intend to hold at the end of next year, some new government or this one does not matter, they will send another hundred soldiers as promised by both the government and the president of the state, and that means that we will take over one province in Afghanistan. The price of the 2008 mission with 300 soldiers will surely reach about 300 million kuna, I would almost dare say with equipment, etc. In the first year of 10% of the military budget, which today reaches 4.5 billion kuna. The question also arises whether the Republic of Croatia can withstand it. Financially certain that, it will be less for the modernisation of the army in the country, but we all agree that our soldiers in peace missions must not be missed. The second question is, can Croatia now face the death of a soldier without major earthquakes? I guess so. But can he stand the death of a soldier like this or that politics? I just don't want to compromise it with some cases in the country, but it's also hard to take responsibility for it. I believe that Croatian politics can bear it, but the problem is other nature, how now to explain that the military is being sent through my court for a pre-lost mission, more precisely in a mission where only one solution is sought. The honorable withdrawal of NATO, primarily the troops of the United States, or England, from Afghanistan. But which means I'm going to repeat once more, sending 300 soldiers to Afghanistan. It's actually taking over one province, so in two years I'm sure of it, one of that command post. It all happens in some way in that election year, all of this happens at a time when one Italy, for example. He's leaving Iraq, he's thinking about it, he's openly talking about it, and even America is thinking about what he's going to say is that he's going to be moving from Afghanistan, Iraq to Afghanistan, and what I'm most afraid of, he's going to kill a Croatian soldier, and I'm afraid it's also a lie that these soldiers are going to stay in the relatively peaceful north. They're more and more leaving, we see it on the way to the war of the affected south. What's the biggest problem in Afghanistan? The fact that the Afghan authorities at this point have only 70,000 soldiers plus these 20 grand that came from the world, that's about 90,000 to 30 million people. I'm saying it's small. And fifthly, the issue is absolutely politicised or has been politicized by tonight in the Croatian public. And in such an atmosphere when we go to the election year, when every issue becomes a political issue is extremely difficult, gentlemen, and to commit. This operation, I'm afraid, will end in failure, but I am also aware of the fact that international troops meant Croatia and that the Republic of Croatia cannot be isolated and not only in this regard. Now, would Croatian soldiers be safer if there were another 50 soldiers from Croatia or the next day 300, I don't know, but I'm sure this is a mission, that the mission is Croatia's NATO ticket, but we'll see how all this is going to happen, and I'm afraid it won't end well.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79299	Thank you. Dear Representative, Vice-President of the House Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79300	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I would, however, like to remind the order for this peacekeeping mission in Afghanistan to ensure the establishment of a transitional administration and after that, the functioning of a democratic state on the basis of the will of citizens, i.e. the electoral body to ensure this in Afghanistan. Secondly, I would like to remind you that this peacekeeping mission has been approved by the United Nations and third, that NATO is on the basis of so-called. The Bonn Agreement accepted participation in these operations. Now the first thing that should be dented. Of course, there are mutually causal links between Afghanistan and Iraq, but operations and missions in Iraq are not the same as the joint forces of members of the International Community and Afghanistan. Neither by its legal basis nor by the support of the International Community. The United Nations around Iraq did not stand behind it, and they did not approve that part while Afghanistan is a completely different situation. A third thing that should be cleared up. You know, when we discuss here, then often it gets the impression that NATO has some military force and its own military units and operations. NATO doesn't have that. That's what's important to decide. NATO forces are members' forces, its NATO member states. Only now in the transformation of NATO is it trying to work to form some common forces such as rapid intervention forces, I don't know, anti-intelligence services, i.e. information services and possibly medical corps. But his own powers so far, so far, so far. These are the forces of our NATO members. And also since NATO is an alliance of sovereign states, each member not only assumed obligations and responsibilities but also some rights when it entered. It therefore decides to what extent it will participate in a mission and how long it will take. And now, what's important is to point out. It is important to indicate what is correct and quite all right and in this report we have received, that these operations, that members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia as well as other NATO members in Afghanistan do not have any mandate or capacity so-called. Putting peace on hold. It says explicitly. But I am already tasked with supporting peace, training of the Afghan army, as well as civil police, military police and civilian police, and contact with the population to build trust or rather, specifically to create a prerequisite that they can function legally and legitimately in Afghanistan's space. Therefore, we have something that happened in Croatia during the Homeland War, where in the temporarily occupied territories, the occupied territories of international forces created the conditions there to start to function and establish normal legal and legitimate authorities their function and, of course, to start creating preconditions for the Republic of Croatia to achieve full and territorial and legal sovereignty in that area. That's how it is in Afghanistan. And in that respect, it's a whole other situation. What's the problem? The problem was actually about what's going on in Afghanistan today. Today, in Afghanistan, there has been an improvement in the security situation, that the Taliban and other forces that have regrouped against the current transitional administration and started armed activities and terrorist activities are being threatened not only by legal and legitimate authorities in Afghanistan, civil and military nature, but also by the forces of the International Community, or NATO, which should enable these forces, i.e. those bodies to function. And most often and most interestingly, this is not about the fact that the forces include the Republic of Croatia, which should ensure and establish a question of trust and I don't know, maintaining or preserving peace, but often can be involved in conflicts. And we need to be aware of that, but from this text, whoever wants to read it realistically sees it clearly and it's written. And besides, in that context, there's one more thing that's very important. The question to what extent may be the risk of intrusion in that part. One question is when NATO troops try to train and defend endangered fundamental values and themselves through the issue of self-defense, and another question is when it would affect a wider space in a region where it would actually be, has become a wartime, or armed conflict that can form a form of action of a local armed conflict in that space or in a situation that, in fact, in the nature of things, turns into an imposition or not just a preservation of peace but of those threatened intruding because it has already been abolished. The question of what should the Republic of Croatia do then arise in such a situation. And that is why we believe and that is why we have also proposed these two conclusions, with the proposal for a decision, that not only should the executive authority be warned in time, not only of the command structure, but also of the Croatian Parliament for two important reasons. The first reason is to take measures, to preserve the lives and health of our members of the Armed Forces. Don't make it to... or not to come into such a situation where their lives and actions will be threatened. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And another situation, that behind the decisions of the military bodies there is a political decision by the representative authorities and executive authorities in fact by the state in relation to the joint command and the NATO system in which we are actually de facto there. Therefore, this is very important, and therefore we think that it would be good to adopt both of these conclusions with this decision. Because that's what we're making assumptions, let's simplify the language of the people, I say, God forbid something happens, that we can react in time, that we can actually show the unity of the political position around the national interest of protecting the lives of our soldiers. There's one more thing I wanted to emphasize in particular in my debate. I am actually grateful to the applicant of this report for making it clear that there are problems about strategic transport and both medical and human, etc., and where there is a fine record of the absence of its own strategic transport. You know, we must objectively admit that we are in an inferior position, because our forces depend on allies. Here we will not be able to provide such funds that will be able to compensate for all that is missing because there is no budget, but what we can empower and strengthen our position. Our military, civil component, our Ministry of Defence, in our talks with our partners that we work together there, in fact, through this mutual agreement, we strengthen the rights, obligations and responsibilities of taking over and extracting our forces if they come into a situation killed by the lives and bodies of these people. And the special thing I would like to stress about the decision is not that it is not clear in itself at least as far as I am concerned, but because of the debates that have followed so far. You know, we're not gonna decide in 2008 about the state of another 100 soldiers, we're handling it this way. In Article 1, we address the need for Croatia to be in a given moment, in fact, willing to make three hundred soldiers available for the needs of a peace operation in Afghanistan, with up to 200 of them in 2007, and the second part will be taken over when we train people and secure funds, up to 300 of them in 2008, and that under the point of taxation of the structures, in fact, by groups in which they will be located, but when looking at point 2, but what is important here does not say that in the decision or should not be written. Maybe it should have been written in an explanation. The important thing for both our public and our representative body is that no one is sent there without his express consent, or volunteering, and that's very important to know. So it is not just that the political decision of Parliament, government, etc. is behind it. In view of the international interests of the Republic or the foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia, but among other things, an element of the volunteering of each member of the armed forces who, in that segment, voluntarily decides, in accordance with his profession to carry out that part of the task. And the last thing to say is that we do not want to give recognition to the members of the armed forces who are not only in this peacekeeping mission, but in all missions around the world, because they have made a huge contribution to strengthening the particularly military reputation of the Republic of Croatia and opening the political doors of the Republic of Croatia to join the Euro-Atlantic associations, particularly NATO, and in this context a special matter of training and training our soldiers so as not to be partners as we wish to say now Croatia is a partner to the United States, but that as a future member of NATO, we hope, together with NATO, to be in partnership with the United States of America in establishing peace in the world. We must not forget that in this segment NATO is actually testing its transformation and its ability to sort of separate in this respect from the United States because this is what the United States of America is looking for for for a simple reason because NATO is no longer financially and organisationally able to monitor investments that the United States is counting in the military component. Therefore, we must take great care of it, and it is something quite, completely different and beyond ourselves that we cannot stand apart and stay apart. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79301	Thank you. Final review, Defence Minister Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79302	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I thank you for your support and for this report, and I thank you for your support of the Enlargement Decision. The decision to increase is based on possibilities, I repeat the preparation of people and their material and adequate equipment. I am sorry that Mr. Vidovic had to leave, but simply when Minister of the Croatian Parliament, the minister proposed the government, the government wrote to the Croatian Parliament that the situation was worsened, he said enough of the situation was worsened. The Croatian military did not leave the parliament's mandate for one second, and the parliament authorised the Government of the Republic of Croatia to determine what functions it would perform in Afghanistan. When it started through the media, some media speculated we proposed this Decision to the Parliament to determine what functions they were and only those functions will we perform there and there. What the Prime Minister asked me so he misrepresented, the Prime Minister doesn't know that... He knows they're in the south, he asks me if we've ever stepped out of the ISAF mission one second and gone into something that might be called... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How did a political weekly write that? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not for one second, because this government is responsible for this Parliament and we do not want to deceive Parliament. Normally, NATO commanders, officials may want us to have more, but no, we have these opportunities. We will not send any soldiers there a day before he is personally ready before the task force in which he will participate is ready. We have a degree of volunteering so far, our soldiers are going there. Once we reach the full level of professionalization, then the task force will go, but that's what goes on with the entire professional army. A little bit of cost. ISAF 2007 planned order of 155 million kuna, ISAF 2008. 239 million or there will be more soldiers and we hope to be able to take over, or participate more strongly in this PRT function in one of the provinces. Which will be seen in accordance with both schedules and possibilities and what the needs of the international community are. The 2004 data I have says that out of 4 and a half thousand tons of heroin coming out of Afghanistan on the drug market around the world 90 percent. I am not an expert and I will not speak, but I am convinced that Croatia is also a major financial asset for the treatment of drug addicts. Each kuna invested in Afghanistan justifies in a peacekeeping mission, justifies its existence and its cost. What I can proudly say, something that I am proud of our soldiers, our soldiers are known to behave civilisedly and with dignity and respect for the dominant population. People in... They call them "God's people." [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They are not perceived there as someone who has come to impose something, they are from the local population perceived as people who have come to help. That was confirmed by President Karzais, who I had a meeting with, all the ministers with whom I had a meeting and the work of our soldiers there, we can be proud. If there are certain mistakes, there are, there are them, we learn them, there's a new lesson every day, we take it off by the command line. Therefore, thank you for this support, and normally I call upon everyone who can contribute. We can't talk from the Ministry of Defence about the general state of Afghanistan, but I spoke openly to the press, we responded openly in the mission, we responded the other day to the Ministry of Defence's press release. It's very embarrassing in the local public when a political weekly says that an American soldier is insured in the event of death for $5 million. That's a notorious lie. No army secures their own men. What is the purpose of these articles? Is she completely ignorant? However, we are open, we are open to both parliamentary representatives and any information the parliamentary representatives seek either through the Presidency of the Parliament or through our parent committee we are willing to give. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-07-0.u79303	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on these two points. Resumption of the session tomorrow at 9:30 with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Recognition of Foreign Educational Qualifications and the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on basic and secondary school textbooks. Perhaps another point of 25th and 26th and at 12 o'clock a vote on the points discussed. Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the Peace Mission in Afghanistan "ISAF" for the period from 1 March 2006 to 31 October 2006. I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the Peace Mission in Afghanistan "ISAF" for the period from 1 March 2006 to 31 October 2006 is hereby adopted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 102 votes in favour, 2 abstentions. The proposed conclusion was accepted with the majority.
