ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65885	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished MPs and MPs. We have before us the Animal Protection Act, which came first and foremost as a need to improve the existing Animal Welfare Act of 1999, and we hold that it is a significant step in particular in the part in which we bring it into line with the latest scientific achievements in this area and the existing standards laid down in the European Union legislation. It should also be said that the existing law was not a sufficient basis for the adoption of all necessary sublegal acts and regulations to protect animal health, life and welfare. It should also be noted that the welfare and general protection of animals in the European Union is through the so-called ‘European Union’. the multiple conditionality system directly related to the payment of incentives in agriculture. Today, agricultural support cannot be obtained in the European Union unless you have met not only environmental protection conditions during production, so you have achieved certain ecological standards, but also if you have not respected animal protection and welfare standards. Therefore, animal health and welfare have a direct impact on both the level of incentives and the profit in agricultural production. We can discuss whether such strict criteria for paying off incentives are part of high standards, the quality of the European Union market and part of the mosaic of a complex mechanism of non-administrative protection of domestic production against third countries, or yet the prevailing reason is increased awareness, new knowledge and human attitude towards animals. But for us as a country because of the integration of the Croatian system and the Croatian market with the European Union market, it is important both. And high standards, but even more humane attitude towards animals as above all, a civilizational step that determines man himself. This legislative proposal highlights the responsibility, obligations and responsibilities of animal owners and owners, but also other natural and legal persons to protect animals, including their life, health, well-being. This aims to prevent cruelty against animals as well as inadequate treatment of animals in those areas in which this law applies. Diseases in particular zoonoses are the most important and constant factors that threaten animal welfare, as well as humans, so that the fight against them around the world is a priority for all those who ensure animal protection. In addition to setting international standards for animal health, the World Animal Health Organisation has set international standards. These processes, these standards should primarily result in the satisfaction of consumers who require that those animals involved in the technological cycle be protected from unnecessary suffering, pain and fear. On the other hand, this sets out increasing requirements for producers of raw materials, animal raw materials. There is also great attention to pets, protected species, animals used for experiments, animals used for sport, recreation and entertainment as well as abandoned and lost animals. The basic issues covered by this law relate first and foremost to the creation of a legal basis for the protection of animals through the operation of competent inspections. The legal proposal removes shortcomings in the view of animal species because the applicable Animal Wellbeing Act applies only to birds, fish and mammals. The legal proposal requires additional responsibility for legal and natural persons using animals or taking care of animals or other means of contact with animals. The obligation to register legal and natural persons who are obliged to provide protection during contact with animals and when exploiting them shall be prescribed. The training of persons who are generally in contact with animals is also prescribed. The obligation to provide assistance to injured animals is introduced which has a significant impact on their quality of care. In addition, conditions are prescribed to meet animal resting places. Then the obligation to stun animals for slaughter. The ritual slaughter is arranged, so for the needs of religious communities. No ritual worship or killing, ritual slaughter, death, which, unlike ritual worship, is bound to other reasons such as entertainment. Next, the establishment of an ethical commission whose role is to provide a scientific basis for improving animal conditions and handling. Then, establishing an animal protection commission, banning the use of wild animals in circus plays. Animal giving as a prize in games for happiness and selling animals to persons under the age of 18 is prohibited. A partial or complete amputation of sensitive parts of the animal body is also prohibited. It is also required for animal shelter founders to establish an information centre for abandoned and lost animals. In addition, the tasks of collecting and providing abandoned and lost animals are arranged in a way that will facilitate and establish and finance such activities and determine the obligation to finance, build and operate animal shelters to perform those functions. Legal and natural persons who commit an offence second time in carrying out economic activity with a fine may also be issued a ban on carrying out their activities for a year. The levels of fines for infringements of natural and legal persons are much more than in the Animal Wellbeing Act and amounts for legal persons from 50 to 100000 kuna, and for natural persons from 10 to 15000 kuna, which we believe should first act preventively. As regards inspection supervision, it shall be carried out on the basis of a risk assessment and, at random, by selecting the place of supervision or upon knowledge of the infringement of the provisions of this law, and may be carried out at the same time as the conduct of controls for other purposes. Ladies and gentlemen, this law is in line with international animal protection conventions. It fully regulates this area, is also in line with the requirements of the associations involved and were involved in its production and we hope that a significant contribution will be made to improving animal protection even when pets are asked, but also when these animals are part of the technological and production process. We believe that this will be an additional and financial and organisational requirement for our producers, but also a necessary step if they want to produce for the European Union market, if they want to export. And we also saw if they want to participate in incentives that are conditional on animal protection through multiple conditions in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65886	Thank you. The committees? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. HDZ Representatives' Club, Honored Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65887	Dear Mr. President, dear secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the Animal Protection Act, which represents a civilization step. Because that civilization step needs to bridge a deep gap that exists between us between a species called man and all other species because of a bad tradition and a bad current legal solution. What drives us to care for those who are weaker, to care for those whom we have taken away from our development? We are driven by formal and content reasons. Content reasons for the human race’s development had to put animal species at risk, and today we share these poor animals with those technology that we have heard about and those who are pets. In a formal sense, a relationship with them can be traced in our press. And everything we read in the press justifies the adoption of this law and would immediately announce and certain improvements to the proposed legal text. In a formal sense, the improvement of animal relations makes us, unfortunately, first European Union, always drives us where we were unable to pursue ourselves. But we're also driven by these events, which are only marginally recorded in the paper, which consist of hanging cats by trees, which are composed of breaking legs with test biglls without any scientific need, which consists of the owner of the bat beating the bitch because she didn't bark. It is unfortunately the only case that has been prosecuted to the end and the owner has ended up with a prison sentence. He beat up the bitch because she didn't bark when an unknown man passed, instead of giving her one trainer to handle it within seven days. As far as the Biglov affair was concerned, she actually started it, or she was one of the key driving mechanisms to run a new law. It's a famous affair where a large number of giants have been butchered by legal regulations that were loose, but they existed, they were not respected, the need for scientific experimentation. A scholar, I call him a quasi-scientist because a real student has built-in or acquired ethical norms, and this one didn't have them. He imported these giants so he imported them through an association he founded himself. The college dean had no idea about the experiment. The experiment was ordered by a global company, and it consisted of breaking the legs of the giants and then examining the cure as the leg whole. Of course, there was little ethics in everything that could have happened in an experiment on broken legs that happened daily, unfortunately in car accidents. At the Veterinary College, there are two to three dogs with broken legs a day, and they could be experimented on, but it would not satisfy the financial criteria for it to be over in two weeks but would take several months. So this proposal ahead of us is the result of action and ministry and should really be commended. But also the actions of associations, numerous associations for animal protection. This proposal should ease the gap which, unfortunately, exists in Croatia between species of human and animal species and which would give the animal the right to a decent life and the right to a painless, therefore a dignified death when we have to kill her for our survival, for economic or better said food reasons. And that's why this law has a whole series of things that Mr. Secretary of State mentioned really solved in an excellent way. The law was modelled by the Austrian law. Not to repeat everything, but still a few things need to be pointed out that are good. First of all, for these experimental animals, the Ethics Commission is introduced, and without the approval of the Ethics Commission, there is no dying, no vis-à-vising for the purpose of experiments. Furthermore, the law also allows decent deaths of animals, so slaughtering in households and industry is prescribed in the way the European Union solves it, which means that animals other than some exceptions such as chickens and rabbits, poultry and rabbits must be put to sleep before then. Of course, the exception is also religious rite, which are also very well prescribed. Fights between animals shall be prohibited for the purpose of obtaining profits. The big step is to ban the use of wild animals in circuses. In fact, other countries have already done so so circuses are now registered in Croatia, so we have a large number of circuses, more than the whole of Europe. I hope that, not to hope, but after that, they will have to move somewhere further or they will have to put these poor wild animals in an environment that is natural to them. The Animal Protection Committee is being introduced. The Ethics Commission is being introduced. The most important thing is the hygienic services for abandoned animals that have been euthanized after a brief procedure. The local administration undertakes to introduce shelters in the model of the European Union, and those shelters must have animals that are then domesticated, so new owners are sought. These are all quality steps. There's more so I don't pick them up. Because it's our job to tell us some critical applications to this law. The critical applications relate mainly to those parts where we have deviated from the usual practice in the European Union countries which have dealt with these problems decades ago. One of the observations where the law did not resolve the situation well would be Article 20 where animal experiments for the purpose of research are regulated very precisely in a way that determines the conditions for the housing of these animals, but unfortunately these conditions will be laid down by the Regulation. It would be good for the law to at least indicate, not precisely, but indicatively and regulation that the frameworks in which these dwellings should be realised, and that is to say in the law that housing must be such as to allow the minimum physiological movement of animals, and then further the rule would specify it. In Article 22, we propose to extend the provision relating to those raising test animals. It is for them that they must have solutions on the conditions in which these animals will be grown, on how to register, on records, etc. However, in order not to repeat the "biggles" affair, it should be extended to those who do not grow these animals but to import them through illegal institutions such as this case, so these normatives should be extended not only to those who grow animals but also to those who import them or in any other way possess them in their introduction. The Commission for the Protection of Animals, which is justified in this Article 35 of this Law, is a committee which has broad powers. This will include eight members, eight members, who are well-defined. We would suggest the ninth member not to be odd but to have the ninth member as someone from the medical profession, from the ranks of the medical school or the ranks of the state health administration precisely because of what the secretary of state spoke about, that medicine, human medicine could affect the problems common to man and animal, these are common diseases or zoonosies, so that this member could also influence the various hygienic epidemiological measures that affect both humans and animals, and we suggest that this ninth member be added. In the Ethics Committee, which is regulated by Article 34, there is a representative of the medical profession, but the Ethics Committee does not decide on important matters, it does not propose laws but only controls experiments. Therefore, in that Article 35, it is necessary to remain a representative of medical, human medicine and should be added to Article 34. From further observations I would support some of the demands of the Animal Protection Association, above all the Animal Friends Society. In the first place, we have to ask a big question about breeding animals to get fur. It is a requirement and I think it should be supported, that in Croatia it should be prohibited to raise animals for the purpose of receiving fur, because in Croatia it is a marginal economic branch, only one company with cooperatives. The ministry's response that this is not foreseen in the European Union does not mean that it should not be applied to Croatia. Namely, the European Union did not want to make such a decision because of Scandinavian countries where this is an important economic branch, but the European Union supports that a decision is made in countries where it is a marginal economic branch such as Croatia to prohibit cultivation, and the proposal is to protect manufacturers and its co-operatives to implement the proposal within the next five years. So in five years they would have had a chance to reorient their production into something else and I think that should be accepted. In Europe, they paid financial compensation, in England and Austria when they passed such a law, we don't need it, but with a five-year period, we can enable those who grow chinchillas to kill to reorient themselves. Under what conditions do these animals live? Someone goes underground to a farm like that, so they'll see that tragedy. Croatia has already made one big step, so I would call for that step, a ban on importing seal fur. You've all watched on TV those little seals who, with their black eyes on that white face, look at the man who comes to him like they're going to trust him, the food he's going to give him, and this guy, he's being beaten over his head and peeled off his fur. Croatia is the fifth country in Europe to ban the import of fur, and I think we should boast of that move. It was March 28th this year when the Ministry of Culture, i.e. the Department of Nature Protection, made such a decision and it was excellently echoed in Europe, I think it would also get points in Europe, and above all among the civilized countries that would show the way to protect innocent animals. The next remark of the Animal Friends Society that I think should be supported is the deadline for lost animals to be held in a shelter. The law now requires the local administration to organize shelters for lost and abandoned animals. After that, the adoption process goes. So you're looking for a foster parent, you're looking for a family to take care of and take care of them. Under this law, unless such a foster parent is found within 30 days, an animal can be killed. I think it should be significantly extended, because in Austria, for example, there are no restrictions. There he must be held by that abandoned dog left by the owner, so man, until the moment of foster care. It goes faster there than in Croatia because it is already a tradition there. And if you're looking at the Austrian newspapers, they're just fighting for what they're going to publish with a free ad to host animals. Unfortunately for us, associations have to pay dearly and the procedure is much longer, so we suggest that the time limit for keeping such animals is extended to six months. It is a reasonable time, and with our inappropriate conditions, that our foster parent and I think that the conscience of all those making such a decision would be much more peaceful in that case. What should be regulated is a surgical procedure over an experimental animal. Under this law, this procedure can be done practically by anyone involved in any research in biological professions. So, for example. An operation on an experimental animal can be done by a pharmacist, a biochemist, agronomist and others who have never held a scalpel and do not know basic anatomy. If we didn't narrow down the number of those who could do this, it might be good for the Ethics Commission to grant approval for the experiment, and also to check the ability of those who will operate on the animal, so that we have some assurance that the animal will be in professional hands and will not suffer. I would ask here if it is possible to resolve the protection of pets in Article 7 so that protection is extended to the protection of people from pets. Namely, some irresponsible pet owners run dogs without a leash, and when a dog leaves the feces on the asphalt, he doesn't pick it up but leaves it to the next passerby to step on it. So the difference in the appearance of Zagreb's and Vienna's asphalt is huge. I think that in this article we could commit, although this is intended to be resolved by a sublegal act, we could oblige the owner of an animal to pick up the feces behind him with a plastic bag and run a dog on a leash. This would prevent the cause of hatred from passersby to dogs, so that would be indirect protection for pets. I think it should be incorporated into the law and that we should at least be on the right track to even our sidewalks with the sidewalks of the European Union's capitals. If we accept these amendments, I think we would have a state-of-the-art law that would be a model law in the European Union and all others that come into the European Union, a model law, and that would allow for the interruption of that deep gap between man as a species and an animal. These improvements could show that man in his evolution gained not only a large and high - quality brain but also a large and high - quality heart that is compassionate and sensitive to those who suffer and who are weaker. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65888	Thank you. For PGS, SBH and MDS, respected representative Ivo Banac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65889	Dear Mr. President, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. The PGS Club, SBHS and MDS will support the Animal Protection Act because it really represents a significant improvement in our legislation in the field of animal protection. For example, after the adoption of this Act in the case of the transport of live animals, it will no longer be possible to expose animals to suffering in a narrowed area without security of rest, the deprivement of animals of water and food, the transport without authorisation and the proper standardisation of means of transport and the training of carriers. After the adoption of this Act, slaughter and killing of animals should not be carried out without stunning of animals, except rabbits and poultry for use in their own household, nor will stunnings and slaughters in the household be able to be carried out by persons who are not qualified for these tasks. This means that despite the struggle of our populists, it has ringed the doorbells of blood in November and December. After the adoption of this Law, it will no longer be possible to use wild animals for circus performances. This means that for future generations, a coach with a chair in one hand and a whip in the other will find his deserved place along with other anachrons of pictures like that Gelate with a black mask. After the adoption of this Act, the use of animals for experiments will be significantly limited although not completely eliminated. It is important that the experimentation will require a decision by the competent authority with the opinion of the Ethics Committee. It is good that the committee set up by the minister will have to include representatives of the Animal Protection Association. After the adoption of this Act, hygiene services will be abolished, and animal shelters under specific conditions will be required to collect and provide accommodation to abandoned and lost animals. However, it does not rejoice that there is a huge hole in Article 57(4) that allows for the death of abandoned and lost animals unless they return to the owner or are home 30 days after their entry into the shelter. It also does not look forward to the fact that this bill does not include a ban on the breeding of fur animals. The very fact that Croatian company Chinčala d.o.o. According to some information, it covers 50% of the world's chinchilla fur production, talking about the scales of our involvement in this increasingly stratified branch of the economy. Maybe he's talking about our gourmets getting the best involved in the process of globalisation. And in the end, I can't do with a little bitterness, but just a little bit, I still don't notice that this bill has accepted a good part of the proposal for a law on animal welfare that I offered this House in the fall of 2004. Despite, I am afraid, a very low level of debate among some colleagues in the execution of the proposal in question, without dazzled, despite the populist halabuca in part of the media, I am pleased to say that this bill has actually opened the way for the one who is before you today. What it says about our parliamentary practice is I leave it to others to judge. Besides, throwing the first kittens into the sea, the implications are prohibited in Article 9(1) of this Legislative Proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65890	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, a respected representative of Tonino Picula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65891	Dear Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, esteemed visitors. The proposed text after several years, more precisely than the adoption of the earlier Law of 1999, returns to the Assembly the subject of animal protection. It is done in a much more comprehensive document aimed at animal welfare issues in keeping and rearing, their health care and at performing zoo technical procedures, deaths, transport protection, economic cultivation or further sales. The proposal discusses the protection of wild animals in zoos, exhibitions and entertainment. He has the ambition to deal with the increasingly serious problem of protecting abandoned and lost animals while giving attention to animal protection for experiments and other scientific research. In fact, this and similar laws speak of our relationship to the living world at all. A country that has recently experienced destruction and mass destruction would have to adopt and support new mechanisms and standards to protect the world. If we are talking about models, besides Austria whose law has served as a template for this proposal, Germany, which has become the first European country whose amended constitution guarantees animal rights, should be mentioned. Thus, Article 20 of the German General Law reads: "The state takes responsibility to protect the natural foundations of life and animals in the interest of future generations". Although the Parliament rejected the proposal for a law on animal welfare nearly 2 years ago, it has nevertheless spurred a bile, even for moments and a painful debate in this House on a subject that has become even more relevant in the meantime. Today it is quite clear that there can no longer be any delay in the adoption of this type of Law in Croatia. It is a fundamental question of what kind of law to pass, what standards to respect, what extent of protection to establish, how much resources it provides and how it provides. As last time, the proposal and this Law can be discussed critically. However, the need to regulate the area more modernly is unquestionable not only for the national economy but also for strengthening the culture of non-violence and consideration towards those who are unable to help or ask for help. Unlike the Animal Welfare Act, which has widely initiated and provoked a debate on the reasons why animal protection this proposed law provides sustainable solutions in many areas. It should be noted that the draft of this Law was written in cooperation with various associations and that many of their proposals were respected. We believe that this cooperation will continue within the framework of an ethical commission, one of the novelties proposed in the text. We particularly welcome the introduction of a ban on the use of wild animals at circus points as a particular form of animal abuse. In this way, the proposer checks out the practice now, fortunately, of a large number of Croatian cities that have already banned the appearances of circuses with animal dots in their area by their decisions. The novelties include the release of a permanent ban on the acquisition of another animal to a person who commits two infringements against an animal. A provision is also welcome to enable effective control of the vehicle for the transport of livestock to check that the animals are carried out on water and walk. Positive changes in this bill are fortunate yet, but some important remarks are not included in the Bill's proposal, such as a complete ban on the death of dogs in shelters, the constant keeping of dogs on the chain, as well as bans on breeding of fur animals. It's about the provisions that existed in the draft law, and they were dropped in the last stage of production. In addition to the numbered, the dog race was banned on all but hard bases, as well as the provision of surgical procedures on animals exclusively by veterinarians and doctors. In our opinion, the law should specify more precisely who will be in charge of collecting lost and abandoned animals. In order to ensure adequate training of people for this job, it would be optimal to engage before all veterinary technicians with a completed secondary veterinary school. Such an educational profile would guarantee that the general animal care, as well as the jobs during longer transport, feeding, power and rest would be carried out in accordance with the law. This proposal once again highlights the serious issue of financing the animal shelter. Although it is noted that leaving hygienic services or fetters as a surviving multi-gathering model, and far less care of abandoned and lost animals will rationalise these jobs, the elemental calculation says that this problem is not worth underestimating. The calculation given in the explanation of the bill estimates that about 4 million kuna should be provided for the establishment of one animal shelter, and for the daily cost per dog 26 kuna per day or million kuna per year. Today's living expenses at the hygiene service, e.g. in Velika Gorica, there are 58 kunas per dog. In the case of accommodation in the service it is mandatory to inject each dog against rabies,... You chip it if it's not already marked. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The costs incurred by local self-government units under the current law will need to be planned in significantly higher amounts in the future. In fact, the problem of abandoned and lost animals not only burdens local self-government budgets, but presents a growing security risk to citizens from day to day. It is assumed that the number of registered dogs should be increased by at least a third to get about a real state. It is no longer enough in certain cases to intervene the city's hygiene service, but more and more work for the police, especially when it comes to dangerous species of dogs abandoned by irresponsible owners. A particular problem is the increasing frequency of abandoned dogs moving near schools, bus stations, city squares, shops, residential buildings, etc. The problem only increases when animals find themselves on roads where they cause accidents and people get hurt. Facing this increasingly serious problem requires first and foremost a better interconnection between cities and municipalities and a more significant involvement of counties. In addition, every unit of local self-government, especially larger cities, can reduce the number of stray dogs in their area if special decisions on dog holding, but continuing media actions affect the conscience of animal owners. This is especially important just before vacations when the number of abandoned animals is increasing multiple. A significantly more active attitude between cities and municipalities towards stray dogs and abandoned dogs would have to follow the law, however, more elastic provisions towards the possibility of surviving animals that have arrived at the shelter. We do not agree with the deadline of only 30 days after which an animal that is not adopted can be killed. The example of leaving dogs in the summer months is clearly saying that the deadline of one single month is no time frame because at the beginning it takes away the animal's chance to survive. I fully agree with the point of view, to quote: "The abandoned animals should not be automatically punished by death because of the irresponsibleness of their former owners.", the end of the quote. I believe that the legislator should extend the time limit for keeping an animal located in a shelter to at least 6 months before any drastic procedure is possible. What we consider to be one of the most serious, if not the most serious disadvantages of this bill is to allow the breeding of fur animals without the control of breeding and dying. As a provision on the prohibition of the breeding of animals for the production of fur was said to be in the working version of the law, but it was omitted. I believe that the inclusion of such a ban in the final version would allow the proposed law to truly be seen as a law that protects an animal. All indicators say that in Croatia we cannot talk about the fur industry but about the activity that has been going on in the gray zone for years, characterised by the lack of regulatory and any effective inspection supervision. I hope that even the amendments will not need to improve the conditions in which fur animals are grown but that after the debate in the Assembly and the public opinion checks will introduce a provision that will completely prohibit such breeding. Sticking to the principle that if we can't stop all suffering doesn't mean that we shouldn't stop the one we can, the SDP's Club of Representatives against all reserves according to certain solutions offered supports this bill as an expression of serious intention to further interest the Croatian public in animal rights and their protection updated by new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65892	Thank you. The HNS club will share the debate. Honorable representative Miljenko Doric and respected representative Alenka Košisa Chicin-Sain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65893	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party Club will in any way support this Act, but we believe that a few sentences should be made in favour of the Law, as well as some criticisms we hope will be accepted until the second reading. First of all, I'm a man who's been doing biological experiments on animals for 27 years, and I have to say that there's been a major shift in animal protection over the past 10 years. In all colleges, high school institutions, scientific institutes were formed ethical committees that closely monitor what was happening so that in those ten years there were really very few outbursts spoken of by my predecessors, so I would not mention them, but the situation was certainly commendable. This is, of course, bringing our legislation closer to that of the European Union and bringing it into line with the legal acts of the Council of Europe. I would have stayed there for a few seconds because Croatia has been a member of the Council of Europe for ten years and we were practically able to coordinate a lot of things ten years ago. Unfortunately, we are not, and unfortunately, the European Union reminds us that in fact they have all installed the Council of Europe documents in their legislation and now we must do so on the European Union's doorstep, but I repeat, with an unnecessary delay of ten years. What I would like to point out and what the promoter has done is very well done, and this is a consultation with NGOs following this area. That's necessary, that's good. The Council of Europe consults even 300 NGOs when documents are clearly brought and this is a major shift. We also hope that this last remark that we have all received on our benches from animal friends will also be installed until the next reading on fur and chinchillas, so that would be the positive sides that we certainly want to highlight and that's good. However, here are several possible objections. First of all, the language used in one part of the text is rather vague and I personally think that with a little lecturing, you would give that text a considerable explanation, simplify it to be clearer to those who will clearly read it. Another option, but we may be wrong about that, so we'd like to ask the Secretary of State for a possible explanation. Hebrang also mentioned the ban on imports of the products of certain animals that were inhumanely killed. But look only at our stores. Our stores are packed objects, products of animal origin, many of which are endangered, endangered species. You have as many elephants as you want, crocodile skins as you want, snake skins also, various kinds of furs, various types of endangered corals. We also have turtle armor. Many sea turtles are also protected. Whether we are making the right selection, whether or not we can ban the import of these products, or we have already done so, because in this way we would very much fit in with the general tendency to protect these types and that Croatia certainly participates in this. And finally, before I give my colleague Chichin-Shain the word, I think that if we support and if we accept colleagues and colleagues this law, then that requires us to encourage new debates and new ethical criteria on the protection of a species called Homo sapiens. Namely, colleagues and colleagues, nice to rule out here is the possibility of keeping animals on the chain, that the animals will no longer perform in circus plays, that the animals will no longer be kept in unsuitable tight spaces, etc. But Homo sapiens are allowed to perform in the circus and not only in the circus but also in the ring, in boxing, kick-boxings, etc. where the primary goal is these and some Olympic sports, what? To do the most severe injury, possibly unconscious your opponent, cause him severe physical injury, and that is something that we pride ourselves, celebrate, highlight and consider to be the height of sports achievement. Is that ethical, should we start thinking about it? I think it's a good question.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65894	Thank you. Honorable representative Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain in part two.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65895	Thank you. This was really interesting to hear from counterpart Doric this supplement on the topic of homo sapiens. But let's get back to the law. The protection of the rights and well-being of all animals is the basis of modern flows of civilization society. And while countries such as the Republic of Germany or Switzerland care about animal protection are adopting constitutional provisions by the Animal Wellbeing Act of 99 years, which is therefore still in force in the Republic of Croatia, it has shown a number of shortcomings. Since the Republic of Croatia is moving safely towards the European Union, we need to make such a new law, to be as effective and quality as you have tried to propose it. I believe that something should be said first on the good side of this proposal because significant moves have indeed been made towards the harmonisation of animal legislation with the existing in the European Union. One of the best news of this proposal is the establishment of an independent ethical commission whose task is to control animal experiments. Only the issue of consistent implementation of this provision remains now, i.e. the competent minister should make sure that competent people are included in this commission. Although animal experiments will probably never be completely banned because, for scientific purposes, the bill often requires significant restrictions and prohibitions in view of their implementation. So, my absolute commendation in that segment. It should also be commended for the ban on keeping and use of wild animals in circus and other plays, which my predecessors have already spoken of and, in the case of the use of pet animals in such plays, a preliminary solution by the competent veterinary inspector to verify the regularity of their living conditions is needed. Although I believe that animals were either wild or are not there to entertain us by riding bicycles and similar things that can be seen in such performances and that to represent them is a completely unnatural environment and actions, given that we can paraphrasise Galileo on these provisions and say, "However, it's moving!". So, some shifts we made. It is certainly necessary to welcome the provisions on the obligation to stunning domestic animals before slaughter, but there will also be a problem implementing these provisions and should pay considerable attention to making sure that they are truly respected. I'd like to add something else. I have to admit, there are a lot of misunderstandings in this bill. For example, on page nine of this proposal it is said that it is forbidden to stunning, slaughter and kill animals for ritual purposes but for ritual purposes it is quite legitimate, even if it does not have to be stunning, i.e. It's a nightmare, but it's not until the jugulars are cut. Then why waste a stunning asset is not quite clear to me, I must admit. But I'm curious about the difference between rituals and rituals. The P.Z.'s ritual slaughter is defined completely and there's no word about the ritual. So there's no definition of what's ritualistic? Finally, it is necessary to welcome the provisions that allow the taking of at least temporary animals to be taken by the owner if they are in a state in which, for example, pain, suffering, or great fear. And it is even more commendable to punish the abusers except for the fine and permanent ban on the acquisition of other animals in case the same offence against the animal is committed twice. However, it should be said and this bill is missing in many other segments. In public, the most controversy is about a few controversys. One of them is the possibility of killing abandoned animals within a month of their arrival at the shelter. For anyone who has received this Bill's proposal in hand and at first reading has been satisfactorily nodded by the head of a provision where it is said in cold blood that animals can be killed after 30 days comes as a cold shower. Those 30 days are illogical for a few reasons. Since the animals in the shelter can only be housed 15 days after arrival because until then, it gives the owner time to report. Very commendable but mostly quite pointless. To give one tortured animal 15 days to find a new owner and a new home in a situation where at the same shelter there are still a huge number of other homeless animals that literally represent competition for years is simply unfair and inhumane. These figures are even more pronounced when it comes to the fact that the vast majority of animals end up on the street because of the neglect and abuse of their owners. Such owners are given 15 days without thought to get home and reach their pet, but the same suffering animal does not give any more time to enjoy life in the sea of the same animals in a very small space. It is even dumber and more illogical than the above-mentioned executions in the European Union. On the first page of the bill there is a big stamp P.Z.E. And if I am not mistaken, it is a mark that puts this law among those which the Republic of Croatia wants to comply with the legislation of the European Union as one of the preconditions for entering that integration. The government thinks that EU representatives in charge of controlling the harmonisation of legislation will just look at the headlines? Well, it won't be safe. So, for the sake of the Croatian people, I hope and believe that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not so naive that it will happen, it will be that you simply did not, we did not know how to solve this problem, so they are up to, to save some money determined that term of 30 days. I think you need to think that at least this goes on a little bit longer. It's the same thing about breeding animals for fur. The government reportedly also promised to the Animal Friends Association, which also co-operated on drawing up this proposal to ban the breeding of fur animals. Of course, animal friends realized that in such a way it makes no sense to cooperate with the government because it was a waste of time. Animals are still grown in the Republic of Croatia for fur production, and there are no precise provisions on, say, traffic and regulation of the origin of chinchillas and other animals that could possibly be used for the production of that fur. Let us not allow the Republic of Croatia to be spoken of as a small country for great cruelty. Let us promote animal protection and rights as an ethical, ecological and health-accepted lifestyle. Thus, funding will be financed and implementation of this law is also, as will be financed, also quite unclear. The costs provided for in the Bill's proposal also rise to nearly one million kuna a year, and this is a figure that applies not only to one shelter. In view of this, it seems that only the City of Zagreb will be able to implement animal care in accordance with this law. So the animals will be mass-migrated into the metropolis. In the European Union, projects, shelters and similar animal care facilities are left to animal protection organisations. However, these associations are much stronger than ours. They have their own land, where various shelters are then organised and such associations are financed almost exclusively from donations. We have the organizations cut off a large part of the foreign donation cake just because they don't have the land. It may be necessary to consider taking action in this area, so that animal care is passed on to directly interested people who will, in that case, have far more free hands to act, and thus the care for animal protection will become more effective. Each of us must live by making individual decisions each day as wisely as possible in a compassionate way. We can't prevent all suffering, but that doesn't mean we shouldn't stop that suffering we can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65896	Thank you. HSLS's club, respected deputy president Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65897	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we believe that this is indeed a good law, with the shortcomings that can be corrected in this reading by accepting the amendments, and I think that it is indeed in agreement, are also in agreement with the objections and proposals from almost all parties to the same article, or to the same articles, which will certainly facilitate the possibility of accepting these amendments. And it's a good model of making this law in accordance with NGOs and certainly one significant civilization step. This proposal puts a strong emphasis on the responsibility, obligations and responsibilities of animal owners and other natural and legal persons in order to prevent cruelty against animals and their inadequate treatment. The prevention of the spread of diseases among animals is thus determined by internationally accepted standards for the protection of animal health. An obligation to assist injured animals shall be introduced. The need to stunning animals before slaughter and death is prescribed. An institution of the Ethics Commission shall be introduced to authorise the conduct of animal experiments or the production of biological preparations. The torture of wild animals is prohibited. The founders of the animal shelter are obliged to organise an information centre for missed and lost animals. And punishments are prescribed. We support maximum penalties or almost always those that are in the upper, upper half but I will use one example that is not directly related to this law, but I will tell you that, for example, in the labour law, when punishing the work of a black judge so far, they have not prescribed a single maximum sentence for a black or working overtime worker. Then what is it to expect the courts to write maximum or high sentences for animal protection? So should we really see how realistic the article is? How many courts will they use? I will try to go by articles to help make the law as high as possible, but here you are please take care of the information that I have provided because if it is not valid for people it will be difficult for animals. In Article 4, paragraph 4, which states that the manner of training of dogs and horses is prescribed by the Minister, with the opinion of the Minister for Interior and Defence, should be complemented by the obligation to obtain the expert opinion of a particular professional institution, such as the Veterinary Faculty. In Article 6 of which the obligation to provide assistance or to provide assistance should also be considered for the person who finds such an animal to notify the shelter or veterinary inspection. In Article 38, subject to the obligation of animal owners to take care of it properly if it shows signs of disease, it should also provide for the obligation that each person should, in fact, repeat an objection to the 38th article to report it, that such person who does not provide assistance should report to the veterinary inspection. In Article 56 concerning the establishment of a shelter, I see that several of us have spoken in a similar way would be good if it is possible to foresee the obligation of units of local self-government to provide certain funds for such shelters. Not just for the sake of civilization's upheaval, but for the safety of the citizens, and for the safety of the children above all. Dog packes become reality in cities. Those who want to play with them are certainly small children. Therefore, it is necessary to consider the protection of these children and to try to find a model of financing, i.e. the obligation to finance animal shelters. We can't just ask local self-government units from their budgets to find these funds because it's impossible after the firemen have taken over, and now we need to take over these shelters. Then we have protection for the victims of domestic violence. It just doesn't have budgets that can hold, but they're necessary. Therefore, it is necessary to see if there are ways to open such shelters from the state budgets in cooperation with local communities. Surely not every city or every municipality should have them, but at least county centers. In Article 57, I see that we have also almost in line all spoken in the fourth paragraph allow the killing of animals from shelters that succeed in home after 30 days. Such a provision legalises the death of abandoned, uncarried or unsold animals, which will in practice lead to the death of all unblemished, pregnant, sick animals, pups from unbleached beds, including older animals, and is definitely such an inhumane provision because the 30-day period is too short for the adoption to take place. Imagine what it means to be 30 days and at 7 and at 8 months. It's actually legalizing animal deaths, so please consider that deadline. The Community should therefore allocate certain means for such animals to be used for the purpose of feeding and keeping those animals for a longer period of 30 days. Consider at least 60 or 90 days in order to give us a chance at home, or a shelter in which they would be located. We really believe that the law is improved. We had an old law. However, in order for the law to be really good except for the amendments I have made, I think it will be acceptable for all of us. The law should oblige the prohibition of breeding animals for fur, the hunting of wild animals by traps, and the keeping of dogs on chains that we certainly know encourages and their aggression and can turn them into dangers for children first and foremost. I hope that with concrete remarks on behalf of the HSLS Club, I helped make the law better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65898	Thank you. For the club HSS, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65899	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Assistant. First on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club, a few words about this Animal Protection Bill. No doubt at the very beginning we must point out that this law is actually an important improvement in relation to everything that has been in our legislation regarding animal protection. We think that in any case it is adapted to all those European standards and that in that part it follows those flows as regards the legislation of the liberative as here, I must also say another legislation that we must adapt to EU standards. However, I cannot point out here that its adoption will mean and that perhaps we do not have a detailed one I would say what it will mean for Croatian agriculture and Croatian peasants, which is more, I would say, the texts cannot be found out. So, I would like to maybe separate here one good thing about the protection of those pets, all those who, unfortunately, are here unequivocally, are all of us if we love pets, if we have them, then we're disgusted by the fact that individuals aren't concerned enough or I'd say they're even endangering such pets or abandoned somewhere we meet them outside. I think in that part of the law, this law really has very good provisions. I believe they will significantly improve this relationship with pets. However, in that part, I must say that we do not know exactly what this means, because if the applicant lists an assessment for animal shelters as 100 dogs, and does not specify the full costs arising from the application of the law, then we do not know what that will mean. Education of official persons, organisation and reconstruction of inspections, organisation and construction of animal resorts, additional costs for the local community. We think that in this part of it, it is good to have one such European law that is maximum protection of animals. But we need to know that these are additional costs. There have already been words here that part of these costs will certainly have to be part of the local community, but I believe that the state will participate in a part of these costs as well because the state also collects the largest part of the tax and all those contributions that go. Hence, she too will have to make a contribution in this part of her life if we are to cultivate such a law. I may speak more of saying about this second section relating to the increase in agricultural production costs and what that means for one family, agricultural economy. No matter how much my discussion will be experienced, but I must say that certain regulations are very critical there. These regulations, whether we want to admit it or not, change a traditionalism that has been true, which has been here for hundreds of years in Croatia, especially in our Slavonia, but also in this part of the continental region, and it is said that if a certain worship, death, and that someone would not have misunderstood me, I am for it not to cause pain, to try to be as gentle as possible with such certain things to animals that are grown for production. But some provisions like that. in Article 19, that we will have to have highly trained, or I don’t know how we can define, people who will be able to perform such a worship. I'm afraid we're going to come up with very clear things, which is to abolish some of the traditions that have been with us and which unfortunately our farmers will find it hard to accept. Here's what I'd say is that in that part of the way, we still have to think about what's important to do if we don't do it in such a sudden way. I think these other animal-related regulations, related to the transport of animals, are acceptable. In any case, they should be supported in principle, but we need to see exactly what it means that we are going to have to take every one of them 50 or 65 kilometers away from the truck, provide them with food, water, etc. What does that mean when you move to 200, 300 or 400 kilometers? What does that mean, where it's going to be prepared, how we're going to make these objects, who's going to work in these facilities, what's that gonna mean for the costs of that part? What does it mean for our agricultural producers when we talk about their competitiveness, when we say that they have to be in some way competitive? I don't know if in such a proposal we haven't put too much pressure on them yet and that it won't be all over the cost part of being attributed to the agricultural producers and everything in that one I would say the price in the end, and then our agricultural producer who raises animals for production in that part will be damaged. I have some interesting suggestions here that, for example, refer to animal movements, Article 39, paragraph 3. read: "The animal has to be secure daily during a period that will not be tied to the possibility of movement in accordance with their physiological and ethnological needs. Related animals must be able to move and must be exposed to pain, suffering, injuries etc." Look, that's interesting. I agree, too. But look, one of our people still knows that we have, for example, a cow farm of milk, and you know perfectly when we have that free hold and when we can provide it. However, you must know that today in Croatia almost let's not go too far, but 90% of the cows that are tied to the male are attached and we almost no longer have the possibility of what it was like in our villages here have seen around a lot of cows that have been released, etc. but they stay tied up. If this, if this is a clear directive that each of these people will have to take all 20 cows out nicely, walk them around the village a little bit and bring them back in again, don't be angry, maybe it'll be very hard to do, not to say impossible, I won't work in that part. Maybe it's good, maybe it's very positive, etc. But, you know, sometimes the rules for walking cows around the village aren't exactly feasible. I mean, I like it, and I'd like to, but I think we're gonna have to get those things in line with that part. I also wouldn't want it to happen that in these restrictive regulations we provide inspectors with these or those, and also the minister to get certain regulations out of this so that it turns out that we can't even keep animals for production. Because by ensuring all these conditions I assure you today in Croatia such farms have a percentage somewhere of 1%. That's a fact. You know, I'd like to really when we're talking about animals and here I concentrate on the means of breeding animals to give them the best I could say terms and all. I'm afraid sometimes alone with unspecified regulations we won't get into a situation so we can't actually keep such animals at all. In particular, I'm going to have to connect certain things here. So I'm separating part of my relationship with pets here. I think we should apply all the legislation we have at our disposal. As long as you're here, you can be restrictive. Also, I support here already said discarding whether with some transitional deadline, means breeding for fur. I think that's it, everyone who's been saying that so far has made it clear and the HSS Club also advocates getting it kicked out of this law and making it impossible to grow fur. By putting a transitional period there, because certainly people involved in this activity need to ensure that they are provided in a different way. However, I am going back to this question. I think that we prescribe something very restrictive, very sharp, we apply the European Union's highest legislation in the segment of breeding, animal protection for breeding. But before that, we did not provide and provide conditions for our family’s farms, which I am primarily talking about here, to create some conditions for them to be able to keep these animals in such conditions. I don't mind, though. But you know, for what we prescribe these are such investments in our peasant economies that I, don't get me wrong, sometimes people can't afford to give it to themselves, let alone give it to a certain way to an animal. So we can't just go with very restrictive regulations. Especially if, later in the sublegal acts, the minister makes it very clear that it must be so and so, sends an inspection on the ground and then forget it. We are more agricultural production related to animal farming in that part almost won't have any. I don't think that would be good. I think it's supposed to be two parallel processes. And first, that process that will allow our farmers to reach the standard in any case. So on the one hand, you have to be aware that we're prescribing standards, conditions, everything that needs to be done, and on the other hand, we're not in that part I'd say the financial part is ready enough to make it possible from the state budget primarily for family farms to reach that level. So, in principle, I support these certain things. Except I say these things that are a little bit, a little bit I'd say problematic. It's gonna be hard to explain to our Slavs that there are no more cabins. I am a little restrained in how to train these people who will still be able to maintain that tradition in a certain way. I think that's where we need to find these opportunities, and with everything that needs to be met under special conditions. So, with a law that defines certain things well, I think we should also very clearly define what financial resources are needed, how much weight it is in some way for the local community, how much it will have to participate in this part that is related to pets and the total of animals, how much we need to help our primarily family farms, our peasants reach that level and that they can ensure what the law says here. It would be bad, bad, and it would be very bad for us to write something without knowing that we can't do it, and then that law remains only I would say some dead letter on paper or maybe for some inspectors or some institutions that will then be in control, a very good thing when they can then carry out the inspection and then devour, and be aware that it's impossible to fulfill it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65900	Thank you. At 10.44, it was time for a ten-minute debate. IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65901	Your Honor, Mr. President, the esteemed Secretary of State, gentlemen of the Parliament. Here's Mr Pankretic said he doesn't know how his speech will be understood, and I don't know how my speech will be accepted either, but he would also like to say gentlemen step on the ball a little bit. Mr. Picula, former Croatian Foreign Minister of the Republic of Croatia, the current parliamentary representative and major mayor said that accommodation of an abandoned dog in Velika Gorica, Velika Gorica, cost the city 58 kuna a day. For three meals at the hospital, the ministry pays the directors 17, 18, 19 kuna. So 19 kuna times 3 is somewhere 57 kuna. The average pension in this country is 1.850,00 kuna. 30 days of keeping dogs in a shelter in Velika Gorica, the town of Velika Gorica costs 1,740,00 kuna when the month has an odd number of days it is 1,798.00 kuna. Someone might conclude to be cynical that in this country it's better to be an abandoned dog than a pensioner. About the unemployed, about those who don't pay as much as it is rude, cynical, brazen, rude, I won't even talk about it, but let's just say it's a civilization principle and I accept it. But I thought I'd talk about something else. Mr. Secretary of State you are from Osijek and you know very well local customs, but not only local customs in Osijek but also occasions in Slavonia, and I assure you that it is similar to what Mr. Pankretić said and in Zagorje, and in Istria, Dalmatia, Međimurje, as I know, to your native Slavonia. What I mean. This law is too brave for Croatian opportunities. This law is as if it was written by people who do not know Croatian opportunities. I understand the government's concerns, and that's how the law is stated, to prevent meat smuggling, but some diseases to the trihinel, and even cow madness, I deliberately mention it because of that case of an affair around Shana cow that the note was wrongly accused, so it should be rehabilitated. But what does it matter? We all know that this nation has been poisoned or poisoned on a few acres of land with a few cows, a few pigs, a little wine, a small olive tree in Dalmatia and Istria, the exact time has passed, Croatia from a dominant agricultural country becomes, say, an industrial country. In this country, however, 30% of our citizens are still mostly nursing households. So we still have 30% of our people in the country of some animal. Finally 50% of today's inhabitants of Zagreb, Rijeka, Pula, Split, Osijek what I know Zadar, Sibenik also came from the village and they know very well what local customs are, which is real wine, real prosciutto, which is real cheese, domestic milk, etc. The truth is, this new generation of my son may think cows give milk in a carton, not him, but this generation. But what I'm saying is, our peasants, and I'm proud to say these peasants holding cattle, cows, calves, pigs, etc. They are not sick sadists, so that they may live above their cattle, as may the applicant of this legal proposal. In fact, they share their care for their livestock, and I feel that they should not be prescribed how cattle are treated. To be clear, I absolutely stand for the best possible treatment of cattle, but this is what I'm saying and because I care about our peasants. Some pet you keep at home, for instance, for the sake of the dock, but our peasants hold cattle for necessity, for existence. And what are we doing with this law? You're not aware of that. You're raising the village to your feet. The Fascist regime forbade the Istrians to bake brandy, so we did one thing. The communist regime thought it would be eternal, forced the peasants into a cooperative and failed cooperatives as the system failed and, say today, you're defending the peasant to slaughter a pig in his own backyard or as they would say down there, in our court. And you know what will happen to you? Our people will continue to slaughter in their courts, or courtyards. Minister Cobankovic will no longer be a minister, some others will come but people will continue to slaughter in the court or in the yard and let them know, regardless of what a recently respected representative Banac has called out in a slurry that I am quoting "chickens". Just so that we do not first to the Croatian government and then to the Croatian peasant as could the Croatian fisherman if we had accepted his way of fishing with a hook. As one legal proposal is viewed by our peasant who cultivates one or two pigs to keep one ham from giving away God of death, the other for the weddings or the birth of a grandson, one to make it clear to the doctor, something to share with relatives, etc. He says again, now I'm going to have to pay for that slaughter at the slaughterhouse. Pay up. The state will either take away my private butchers and so on. 100, 200 or 300 kuna, I don't know how many. Clearly that pig should be brought there, so you should wait order and eventually you will realize that the law here is absurd and unimplemented, but you should also have a delivery note, you should also have a veterinary check to transport that animal there which should also be paid to the veterinarian. For example, let's move on. In Buzet, 3,000 pigs are slaughtered annually, usually on four Saturdays in the 12th and 1st months. So in the slaughterhouse that the note bene doesn't work, which Mr. Fiolić is interested in, God forbid it works, it should be slaughtered every Saturday means 700 to 800 pigs. This is Article 18 and Article 19. I say it's impossible. Where Article 19(3) is allowed to be slaughtered or disabled, it shall allow, for example, the slaughter of pigs in a basket, i.e. The yard, on the other hand, can only be carried out by qualified persons, which are veterinarians, veterinary technicians. And since they're going to do that job, they're going to do, say, 700 of them a day or make it possible. Not at all. So no matter what Europe says, it says, let us let in this local custom our people continue to do what they have done so far. They're not sadists, they don't do it from a mere valley. I assure you, gentlemen, that they do so out of need. If we now deny it to our peasant who lives 2.8 acres on average, what have we done to him? Did we help him? We didn't help him. We made him feel better. And whether he praises the government or the government after we've banned him and 0.0 or attacked him. Now, they're going to attack every power, that's clear to me. Any authority, none of them will be pleased. They'll attack her one way or another, but let's help him, give him land, give him some incentives, pay him off in time, see what we can do with the ransom, and solve this case of the country's assignment. What needs to be insisted, clearly, because of the trihinella, that meat goes to the vet's check. You say there are 4 to 5 in Slovenia, or I don't know how many, 10 slaughterhouses, there may be 100 in Croatia. We know what conditions he's working under. Someone will say if all the Slovenians get there, maybe we will, too, but it doesn't work overnight. And therefore, Croatia, gentlemen, needs a transitional period for such a law in that part. So we don't have to leave Croatia without an Istrian and impertinent prosciutto, Slavons without their cuisine, etc. I remember once, Ralph Schumacher, who had a house near Oprlje, the one who drives Formula 1, got a gift from a prosciutto. This man who's got everything in life but always convinces that gesture. I mean that taste of that prosciutto. So we see that this Law on the other hand makes a distinction for ritual slaughter, for believers, Muslims and Jews, that's absolutely good. They're not in a privileged position now. That's how it has to be. Muslims have halai food, Jewish kosher food. These exceptions have other European countries, but rightly so, here's a Roman Catholic then and others say yes, we don't. However, such remarks are not appropriate. So, what am I up for? At least for one transitional period, for absolute animal protection. What they did to those little giants here in Zagreb, it's a shame, it should be punished. And that customs, gentlemen, do not follow punishment. The punishment for a domestic slaughtered pig is 5 to 15 thousand kuna. Don't do that, gentlemen. We're raising the village to our feet. The law shall enter into force, Article 72, 1.1.2007. I guarantee you, all our peasants in 2006 will be slaughtered before that date. After that, the question is whether they'll grow them at all. We're doing damage to people. It is good that this Law does not apply to hunting or fishing. I remember, I said, Mr. Banc's proposal when he proposed a similar law, and then at the end of the day, like I said, fish are hunting on a hook, which would ruin fishermen and those who simply live off a heartburn that I can only afford for 15 or, I don't know, 10 kunas. We're running out of circuses, okay. Monte Carlo still knows them, but good. Maybe we'll run out of perfume, etc., well, all right if that's the way it has to be. Dressing can only be for dogs trackers, guides, that's absolutely fine. The experiments remain fortunate when it comes to medicine. So the branch itself won't be questioned. But what about zoos at the end, etc., etc. For the end, people who plant all year round, who spend a year hairing, who spend the whole year living with those animals a few hours a day in stables, to ultimately benefit from them, profit, food, so that they can feed themselves because of those thousands of 500 or 800 kuna pensions they can't. I assure you, gentlemen, they are not sadists. These people, so our peasant shouldn't be underestimated. I assure you that they are suffering, and they do not need this law from their pockets to take the last kuna. Absolutely, we respect animals as respected by our peasants, but such laws will not be able to live overnight, such as, for example, fishing could not only take place by hook. I mean, I refer exclusively to what I think is not natural, that it's not logical, that it's not part of our climate, that it's not part of our tradition, that it's culture, and that's, above all, in this case, a necklace, a pig's car, and the other is how it has to be. What I assure you is to Muslims halala food, what is to the Jews kosher food is to our people and that pig and that simple thing to the people, give it to the gentlemen, leave it. The law goes, I see, into another reading. Maybe that'll sort of make it right. But respected gentlemen, I have the impression that half the people who write these laws simply don't know what a village is, which is life in the country. It's a hard life, and it doesn't need to be threatened any further. This law is also an additional burden for local self-government. If shelter one can have 100 dogs, if keeping one dog there costs 58 kuna, that's 5 thousand 800 kuna times 30 days, that's 180 thousand kuna, times 12 months, that's 2 million 160 thousand kuna. Now I don't know which city can afford it. Mr Pankretic said something about cows, but once again, I have the impression that the law is written by people who simply don't know what the opportunities are in the Croatian village.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65902	Thank you. If that were the case, it would ring what Slavonia says on the boards "with a stake in the houses". You'd have to do something before you do it. We're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65903	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Man uses animals and has to use them, he needs them both as a dog or a horse and as a source of food and as a source of raw materials, animal skin. I don't understand, right now I'm going to say too much of the difference between using animal skin to make shoes and ban the use of animal fur. I see this hypocrisy. The skin must be used and the fur must not be used. I don't understand the difference. ... Yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And here in animal protection we have two actually extreme opposing attitudes, they're not today. There are cultures in the east that have absolute animal protection. ... They take special precautions to filter water, not to protect themselves from unclean water, but to not accidentally drink an animal, what kind of organism that lives in water. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Buddhism has very strict rules for vegetarianism, so it says who agrees to murder, who kills, who buys or sells, who serves, who eats, they're all murderers. He's very strict at this, not only does he have a ban on eating animal meat, but he also forbids a whole chain of procedures that leads to meat finally being found on someone's plate. On the other hand, we have both present and absolutely absent... Animal protection and primitive society do not really care about the welfare of animals when exploiting them, so this Law, which is now proposed, represents one step into modern society, and it is good to bring it, but I think we should also have a dose of reality between the two of these opposing extremes, that we need to find the right measure to provide animal protection, the necessary protection of animals, the prohibition of exposure to animals to suffering, but which at the same time would not prevent the exploitation of animals for economic purposes, in a way, by the standards that they have lived in this area for centuries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Something about the law itself. It seems to me that a bad schedule of articles is a subject by law, namely it's arranged in terms of types of protection. We can even divide the animals into wild animals, when this is only about vertebrates, wild animals, and breeding animals for consumer purposes, these are domestic animals or animals from intensive breeding and pets. Here it's all kind of messed up, shoveled, so we have this kind of protection of wild animals in maintenance and breeding where what's said in Article 45? That the terms would be prescribed by the minister. That's all we know about the protection of animals, wild animals in keeping and rearing. So you're not saying anything in the law. The law says this will be determined by some sublaw. Well, then we have the protection of wild animals in nature, and then all of a sudden, pets come in here to continue to protect animals in zoos, and then they're talking about wild animals again. So there's one mess in the law, and it doesn't need to rule, I think that this schedule of articles would be made more systematically, done by animal division, into wild animals, to pets, so it'll all look a little bit more logical than it looks like. When it comes to wild animals, their protection in nature, I have already said there is nothing to be said, except in Article 4, there in general provisions it is forbidden to hunt traps, traps, unauthorized traps. Now that these are unauthorized traps, when a fox falls into that iron that folds around its leg, then often its teeth can amputate its own caught leg and run off to three to get out of that trap. One asset is extremely cruel, extremely cruel, and deserves to be specifically listed here as a forbidden means of hunting. What about an animal, a wild animal that becomes a pet, which is somehow domesticated? Lane found in the woods, lost his mother, doesn't care, is it, then brought home to the estate, a wild animal being domesticated, in what regime does it now belong? That should be defined. Do you now treat her as a pet, as a domesticated wild animal, then you should have one special chapter, a special member of the law, a hedgehog, a squirrel, all of this can be found in households as domesticated animals. And then wild animals in circuses. The appearance of circuses used by wild animals is prohibited, not all animals, but only wild animals. Now I ask you, what's the difference between a tiger jumping through a ring and a dog riding a bike? I mean, if we're taking that ban, I am, I am. Then we ban the appearance of circuses that use animals, all animals, because to train any dog animal or tiger, you know, it's an extremely unnatural behavior of the animal in the circus. Well, that's what's causing them to wonder, so that's why they're pushing them to do it. If we disable the appearance of such circuses in Croatia, the circus owners of the circus themselves will think about whether to introduce new points, so they will step up the magic or clown point a little when they drop these points because they will not be able to perform in Croatia, they will not be able to earn money. So, when we protect animals in circuses, we don't just protect wild animals, we protect everyone, we protect everyone because the show of animals in the circus really isn't necessary, it's not necessarily why, except for making circus owners. In breeding, we now have this slaughter with stunnings. Now, what's that supposed to mean? He says that animals are only allowed to be slaughtered if they are drugged before that unless it is about slaughtering poultry and rabbits in the household for their own purposes, and there is no explanation of why. Now why shouldn't the rabbit and the poultry in the household be drugged, in the household for their own needs, somewhere else it must be drugged, and even more illogical ritual slaughter. It is already said here that there is no explanation of the difference between ritual and ritual worship and should be explained. Perhaps, I know there is a ritual slaughter in the Jewish religion where kosher food must be prepared in a certain way, and even an animal must be killed in a certain kosher prescribed way, but what means the provision that large neck vessels, meaning that it is ritual slaughter, must be cut by one move, and immediately after cutting large neck vessels, the animals must be seducted. Be careful, after cutting large neck vessels, the death of an animal occurs very quickly. And what good is it now to stun an animal that guesses? Unless it's going to make this sound a little nice and it doesn't mean absolutely nothing and it's not any animal protection. We probably can't stop by law, we'd probably have a Jewish community rebellion in particular... uses... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Food to ban them from the ritual slaughter of animals in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Maybe we could, so let's get them from the outside. But then let's not pretend that we're protecting animals in a way that we don't actually do it, so we're doing an exception, and in that exception, we're still writing these things that we're going to stun the dead animal. And finally, pets, there's the law I mean not modern enough. Why didn't you introduce a chip labelling obligation? It exists. The obligation to tag a pet with a chip exists now only if a pet is transferred beyond the borders of Croatia if you drive it outside. You travel with him, you come back, you have to label him with a chip. If pets are required, be careful when a pet has the same procedure to put a chip on it. Then if the animal gets lost in the chip everything says who owns it, where the address is, then you'll find it. Secondly, if he leaves the animal and then he will be found and there we would achieve a very simple way to better protect pets in a procedure that is routinely applied in Croatia today. In any veterinary station, you can tag a pet with a chip. Therefore, the intensity of the law is good, it's not all too bad, it's all to fix until the second reading, and then I ask you to consider these remarks to be well-intentioned and useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65904	Thank you. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65905	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! I think this Animal Protection Law proposal is quite good, I have some remarks, but as my colleague Stazić has concluded his speech that surely the Proposer will respect and consider individual remarks and suggestions, and we will later receive a final proposal that will certainly be of quality and on this trail a comprehensive protection of animals as a reflection of the civilization of a society. It is also commendable to note that the applicant has adopted some remarks already made by the Animal Protection Society. In this regard, however, there was no obstacle to the whole range of suggestions given by the Animal Protection Society, which, in the name of the club, some advocates pointed out that there was no obstacle in view of the spirit of the law that such measures were not found, or provisions. However, here, immediately as regards the prohibited procedures for the purpose of animal protection, I have certain observations or suggestions for supplementation. The proposer has proposed 22 forms of prohibited procedures for the purpose of animal protection. Some are even very taxing and certain and some are almost like rubber norms, and it is pointed out that there is a ban on animal neglect, or any procedure that would cause them pain, suffering, injury, fear, and death. If we see this bill of law that came from the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and the Water Economy, then we see one non-coordination of the government's work. We recently had and we finished discussing the Penal Code. The torture of animals is a criminal act that was not found in the government's interest, or in the government's interest, even though she knew she was proposing this law, and now we have a strange situation that the Penal Code is lighter than this Animal Protection Act, which in its criminal provisions has more severe penalties than the Penal Code. This is inadmissible from the point of view and from the aspect of the particular message of criminal law and for which the most severe sanctions of the legal order are reserved. And you see the absurd. We have for torturing animals in the Penal Code a fine of 100 daily incomes or a maximum of up to three months. And it hasn't been a long time to change each other. In fact, this one hasn't been voted yet, and here we are discussing today. That's what I think to a government that runs a consistent and policy and takes care of the bill's proposals that they make up one whole, that they have one hierarchy is inadmissible. However, it is good that our case-law that the whole public is sensitised for this problem, for animal protection, and although we are all unequivocal and unanimous in the assessment that the courts express mild penalties we have recently, although the law provides a very limited possibility, so the maximum punishment is three months, that the courts express themselves precisely in animal protection and in the pursuit of animal protection and maximum punishment which is certainly good. But here I am also taking this opportunity for the government's proponent to take care of the amendments to the Penal Code for the torture of animals and the death. And the death of the animals left beyond this reach. It was once treated as a thing and since it is no longer a criminal offence or criminal offence and the destruction of other people's matters has disappeared from criminal law, so we also have an absurd situation. For the torture of animals you can get three months in prison but not for the death of animals. I'm dragging one parallel, and I'm also saying with this bill of law, and I think the proposer had to do it, because I'm saying there's no obstacle to it, until the second reading, or the final proposal to classify it as forbidden behaviour or procedures for the purpose of animal protection and the production of harmful animal treatment products. So here we have incriminated or as a punishable shop set out in Article 4 just giving animals such preparations. However, the provision should immediately prohibit the production of such harmful products for the treatment of animals, which is also a criminal offence under our criminal law. I also consider that a lot of the taxation and well-assessed are listed and that these forbidden procedures against animals have no obstacle to being banned as a forbidden procedure for the purpose of animal protection and, ultimately, the dignity of man forbids sodomy, i.e. A generality with animals. We see in some parts that haven't been eradicated yet. It was such a social danger that it was also a criminal act. This is no longer a criminal offence in our criminal legislation, but just to protect animals, I say, and I think it would be very useful and such behaviour specifically cited as prohibited conduct and for it foresees adequate punishment, or monetary punishment, as this Law provides for in its criminal provisions. The proposer did not here as a forbidden behavior taxively state that it was forbidden to grow an animal for fur. There have also been different opinions, but mostly speaking on behalf of clubs, it is also supported by the view it has, which is also the position of protection, the Animal Protection Association is exactly the same behaviour. I think it's different behavior from the way an animal behaves when it's exactly the same as this law and other laws that have been put to death, which is being held for food and so, of course, that all its parts are being exploited, starting with the paws, the skin and the furs. But growing an animal just for the sake of fur doesn't take a man. It is true that animals serve for food and that man has the right and natural right to serve nature and to submit it to his own needs, but he has a measure and a need. So there's no need to grow an animal just for fur. In those other cases, I say when it's being used and that's what it's supposed to be. That is why I say there is no obstacle to the applicant and this suggestion made by the representatives, which comes first from the association, the Animal Protection Association, doing so. Several MPs also referred to the protection of pets, and here should also make a supplement that some hold a pet on, exclusively for personal purposes or from some hostile or unannounced or unannounced visits to the courtyards and so on. Those dogs are all within 50, 60 centimeters of such a single chain and in any event such a provision should contain, or the paragraph should contain the provision of Article 48. So they continue to be protected if the animal is dangerous and human, other animals and therefore the safety of humans and animals, but also to take care of the welfare of that animal that is on a very short chain. And what all the colleagues who spoke pointed out in the article 57th animal shelter. So this 30-day term where exactly such shelters are authorized to kill an animal that hasn't found a foster parent in 30 days. It's really too short a deadline. Our media just now, you almost don't have a newspaper either weeks, any fun readings or even daily newspapers that aren't exactly so sensitive to this fact. Many animals are thus domesticated, and while people simply receive such information and more information is disappointed because the animal was killed two or two hours ago. The deadline should therefore be at least extended by a period of 3 months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65906	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Zdenka Babic-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65907	Mr. President, fellow Antičević, listening to your ten-minute debate, I remembered one aphorism, and I'm going to quote it, "Man is more ape than any monkey."
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65908	Would you like to apply? You haven't answered. And you haven't answered.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65909	He can't, he can't. He can't. ... [[/Intruder: What?]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65910	Oh, I'm offering. Honorable representative of Shima Luchin. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65911	Thank you very much. There's this famous aphorism of the late Tom Baby who says people are falling more and more from Marx and less from Mars. I would actually have to adapt this discussion on this subject to what I heard in this House. I must say, part of the discussion surprised me. Why? Most of us not to say everyone in this House swears to some general principle. To some kind of civilization. But when we come to a field of concrete, when we come to need in a certain way with concrete moves, laws and measures to contribute to these general principles, the general places and then we take the test. And then it seems too often and too simple to reach for certain one-sided and cheap demagogue tricks. So that reminds me, some of the discussions that I heard here on a campaign that was led, anti-European in one party's Croatian moves that can be called, I don't know if there's still a political outsider who claimed that when we enter the European Union, there won't be any kitchens or cream that I believe we all know is true. So it might be worth telling those who say there will be no Istrian prosciutto and Slavonic cuisine if we adopt this law that it is not, that it is not true. Maybe something's gonna change a little bit. It may be necessary to consider a period of adjustment, but I mean to go cheap on one, with such assessments under this law, it's not right and it's not good. What I think should be emphasized here is that a man's relationship to animals is in a certain way a man's relationship to man himself. Because after all, man is part of that animal world. And whether we agree to it or not, when he talks and treats these animals, he talks and treats himself. I would just because of those discussions that were going in, I think I'd like to read some articles from the Charter of the United Nations on Animals. The first article says: “All animals are born equal. Before life they have the same rights to exist." Another article says no animal should be exposed to abuse or cruelty, but it is necessary, if necessary, to kill an animal, it must be done instantly and without pain. I believe that in this House we will all raise our hands for these two articles in this charter, but when we come and talk about how it should be done and then we fall into certain traps. However, I am aware of one thing, and that is that we are only just having a serious conversation on this subject, and probably at least as in Germany which has gone there, which in its own case, if the Constitution has not already installed to actually protect us, will install animal protection. The debates took place for ten years. I'd be happy to have us in ten years, and if he's smart maybe even before, we'll come to that level that Germany came to. So I believe that we will then honor that clause or that article in the charter that says that NGOs that are actually fighting for animal rights must, have the right to be and participate in the work of government bodies when this issue is on the agenda. And that's exactly where it was said that today on this subject, and when it's being discussed, there are two radical currents. The ones that, the ones that wouldn't do anything and the ones that actually don't know... Singer or some famous other authors, philosophers speak and compare man's attitude to animals in fact to genocide, holocaust, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm not a representative of such a theory, but I think we should start talking about it. I think there's one basic problem with us that we don't know about. What I think should be done in terms of education, informing people about what animals and what animals are doing in the world today. Let's just say you have information that in the United States alone, more than 28 billion animals are killed a year for your diet. Okay. Normally, no one pleads that these animals don't kill themselves, because people have to eat, but it's a question of how to say those animals are killed. What it is, let me put it this way today and what we need to talk about, which is, say, the use of animals for experimental, or for purposes, research purposes. I believe that no one has any objection to the use of animals for medical purposes, but there should be measures. However, when it comes to the use of animals for that reason, I don't know that someone would be nice, so for cosmetic preparations that are still very much on the market and in fact it's the logic of large companies, the need to constantly produce new products to win the market. You simply have a situation to kill thousands of animals in Europe today, so in the European Union, even though there are certain bans and certain restrictions. So they're always looking for certain to call them holes in the law and space. It seems to me that even in this bill of law that we have ahead of us, there are a lot of exceptions. Unless, unless, etc. Maybe we should actually consider these exceptions a little bit more detail. As far as fur is concerned, and as far as breeding fur animals are concerned, I think they should be more radical. Why? Well, it seems to me that this should not be a problem since today no matter how strong this industry is in the world today and also in Croatia and how much interest the market for this goods existed that there were alternative, therefore alternative products that could replace fur. Maybe a data that's frantic if you look at it, and I believe people don't know it. Say, for a coat, you need one beaver coat up to 20 animals. Let's say, for a mouse coat, you need 120 mice, and let's say for a chinchilla coat you need between 150 and 200 chinchillas. I don't know if you know that Croatia is the first in the world to grow chinchillas. I don't know if you know that a ton of corpses have been chinked in Croatia, so they're produced annually for fur. I don't know if you know how these chinchillas are killed. In different ways than asphyxiation, screaming of the skin live and so without stunning, etc. etc. I think these are some let's call them some places where this law could improve. That's where we had the chance to hear about the dogs. I ask those colleagues who have calculated what is the price of taking care of a dog, what is the alternative? Let's make a little gas chamber in every city, get those dogs inside and choke them, or let's give the hunters some money and let them kill these stray dogs, and then, let's say, accidentally kill them or some passerby's wounds. I think that approach to this problem is unserious. I also think that this law has great potential and I agree with my colleagues and that it would be worth taking advantage of this debate, I believe those who were and who would be to improve this law. On the financial side, this law will certainly not cost as much as it says in the law, as it will and will need much more money. I know you can't do it and you shouldn't do it overnight. It should also be considered, however, because this law is partly referred to as the Australian model. In Australia, circuses are forbidden entirely. So all animals, no animal can be in Australia's space. But when it comes to fish, I'd think about it. Those who say that the protection of fish comes down to the fact that the cheddars are caught by hooks that are nonsense. When talking about fish, then fish protection should go towards protecting the fish fund in the Adriatic, and that is where fish protection should be looked among other things. Since the Adriatic is unlike the Australian seas and oceans, the closed sea should think about it. As for another sentence, as far as pet owners are concerned, I think my colleague Stazic said that all pet chips. Not just dogs, and I advocate more rigorous punishments, more punishments for pet owners, pets who do not behave responsibly, who, when they leave for vacation, leave them on the street or those who take them for a walk, do not buy for them what they should buy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65912	A fellow representative, time. We've got replicas, the first person to call for a replica came forward by Agent Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65913	I'm very touched by Mr. Lucin's debate. He showed such a touching attention to animals. But I'm warning him that he sits down there every day in a cafe and, with his smoking, poisons Ozana, Bernie and other people there. A little more attention to the people, Mr. Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65914	Thank you very much. Replication response, Agent Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65915	So this is what I was just talking about in my discussion, about demagogy. I'm calling for witnesses all the waiters down from the bar the last time I sat down and smoked. So Mr. Letica is lying. Because I haven't sat in a bar in months and I haven't had a cigarette, since I'm not sitting down.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65916	Thank you very much. I hope you won't be asking for a recess for the evidence procedure right now. All right, next. ... Thank you very much. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Next replica, MP Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65917	A colleague named Lucin mentioned about animal protection that fish protection must go primarily through the protection of the fish fund. However, counterpart Lucin, it is a market situation that since 3 October 2003, when a protected ecological fishing band has been declared, we have not actually established the exact state of the fish fund. That's really awesome. I also warn from this position the Croatian Government that it is unimaginable to enter into negotiations with the European Union, that it is unimaginable to speak at all about the protection of the Adriatic and that in the meantime we do not have the exact state of the fish fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65918	Thank you very much. Replication response, Agent Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65919	I fully agree with my colleague Tadic, and what I was talking about was a contribution to finally starting this story. Because if we don't get into it, at least we're not gonna do anything about it. I'm afraid because of the lack of strategy, you're all about the Adriatic that we'll get into a situation when we start solving things that we won't have anything else to solve.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65920	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. She's a colleague of Ivanka Roksandić's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65921	Thank you, Madam Vice President. The Minister, colleagues and colleagues will assist. Of course, this law is welcome, and I will not speak as inspiredly as colleague Cain, because his debate could also make it clear that this law will prohibit the farming of cattle in the country and threaten the village and the peasants. I must say, from where I come from, from Posavina, the peasant certainly knows how to take good care of his animals, and often through history and in the present, he cares more about animals than his householders. I don't think this law will endanger the village. However, that law was passed in '99. The year has already been a civilizational shift in relation to humans towards animals, and certainly this new one, which is now in the proposal, means visible changes both in responsibility and in the duties of animal owners, as well as other and natural and legal persons, and all for the protection of animals. One who has pets or owns animals for some other reason most often works, here applies to dogs mostly and horses, must also have a responsibility to them. So I'm going to pay my attention to pets, because I think they really need them right now and most of all to start treating them responsibly. People often in their desire to have pets forget that every animal and one care more in the family, that it becomes a member of the family. It is also good to pay particular attention to pets in the article 48 - 51. Article 48 regulates the way pets are held, as well as that owners are obliged to control the reproduction of pets and the care of cubs. It is very important that special attention is paid to keeping dangerous animals, especially dogs. The Underlaw Minister is scheduled to prescribe special conditions for holding them. I don't know if it's a good thing or if it should have already been established by law. As long as the necessary inspections do not determine who the owners of abandoned animals are, there will be problems. Tragedy is for all animals when the owners of dogs, several colleagues mentioned it, at the time of vaccination, most often, or the time of vacation leave their animals, their dogs and let them wander the streets, and all because of the 100 kuna they must, mostly there goes the price of dog vaccination. And that's why I advocate that penalties for such owners are very high, and for those who leave animals and leave them streets and fates, which is very often difficult to establish, I advocate that all animals are marked with microchips. I agree with my colleagues that this is the only way to introduce order and determine who is and who owns the abandoned animal. Because such an abandoned animal is most often a problem for both the city and the municipality, or the local self-government unit. Because it also becomes dangerous for the environment in which it moves. Most often looking for food wanders around containers, children become targets of children, as well as persecution of adults. The shelters for abandoned animals are important institutions. In fact, they're becoming very important to this law. So far, abandoned animals have been caught and taken to hygienic services and are unfortunately often killed. Because these institutions were not involved in the search for owners, while shelters appeared more frequently in the media and through advertisements to take care of and find owners. It is therefore good that shelters are prescribed in Article 57 that they are organised independently or in collaboration with a unit of local or regional, regional, self-government and the collection and transport of lost and abandoned animals to a shelter. But I advocate, like many colleagues, that this time limit for keeping this animal is too short, 30 days, that it must be at least 3 to 4 months. Here we must mention that for the implementation of some of these legal provisions and very important sensitization of the public. And that can be done to the media right now. Here, I believe we all witnessed those very popular TV shows about pets when many animals came home that way. And that's why I think we all need to sensitize the public that way. And finally, there were more speeches here about the chapter of this law dedicated to the protection of animals used for circuses and other animal shows. A large number of Croatian cities have been involved at the request of an animal friends association that launched a campaign against performances, which include keeping animals in the circus. In many European countries we have already heard today, such performances are forbidden and I think it is good that the law is now prescribed and is not given up to the headships or city councils on whether these animals will participate, especially these wild animals in circus performances or not. One open question that we all agree on is fur growing, and I think that's what the proposer in the second reading and in the final version of the law will find the best solution in a way to compensate those who are doing it in Croatia now, and we've heard that there are not many of them and that they really meet all and ethical standards towards animals. And in the end, I think that this law must be satisfied with everyone, not just an association that deals with the protection of animal rights, which are certainly by their work and by pointing to the problem and inciting the application of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65922	Thank you very much. You have two replicas. The first one is Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65923	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here I would just like to replicate to my colleague in a small segment at the beginning when she actually looked back at the previous debate of colleague Cain. In fact, she skipped the theme of the slaughter Mr. Cain had talked about before. But I would rephrase it simply because it seems to me that the topic that she skipped is somehow important especially when we talk about the bill's proposal because in the part where it comes to slaughtering for her own needs, she says about poultry and rabbits. The phrases for their own needs are included in the section relating to animals held for production purposes. The rabbits and the feathers must also be stung before the slaughter, and I think it is, that you missed out on this one, supporting this law, I think it is one big flaw that this part has been dropped.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65924	Thank you very much. You have the right to reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65925	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, I didn't skip, I didn't just touch it because I felt in my debate that it was well settled by law. We don't all have to have the same opinion, that's why we're discussing this law. I don't know why you'd skip that, would you?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65926	Thank you very much. Excuse me, counselor, was it a replica or a correction of the quote, I didn't see? ... Replica. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go, Agent Stengl.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65927	Thank you. Dear Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, Roksandić fully agrees with you that chips are the only solution, the only solution against irresponsible owners. But the deadline, if the owners know each other, and you know it by installing chips, then 30 days is enough to find the owner. It's just 30, or 60 or more days, it's just too expensive, it costs money, and that's what someone needs to pay for. I'll tell you one example, of course it wasn't chips. After returning to Vukovar for about five years, we allocated 500 thousand kuna a year to solve this problem and we did not solve it. We haven't solved it and it's still happening. So he needs a beating, the beating's out of heaven, and then there's gonna be order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65928	Thank you very much, colleague. Let's move on with the debate. Excuse me, sir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65929	Thank you. I agree with my colleague, Stengl, with you, it's another addition to the local self-government. But we must really do what I said to all the animals, install microchips, the only way to identify the owner. If you across the border seem to be telling me a fellow Stazic, running any small animal, we recently led, one of my friends rabbit, a little white rabbit across the border in Slovenia, had to get a microchip that cost. But if we have a pet, then we have said, and expenses on it. I agree at the time when we'll be able to determine the owner of the animal then we'll be able to cut the deadline. But by that moment, I think 30 days is really short.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65930	Thank you very much. Next up's MP Lonchar. He's not in the hall, he's losing his word. It's Vesna Scare Ozbolt. Here you go. You're giving up? Thank you very much. It's Jura Bitunac's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65931	Thank you. Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow representatives, Prime Minister, I welcome you all very much. The proposal for a law on the protection of animals that is in line with European Union legislation means one civilizational step in the treatment of animals. Basically, this bill is the result of technological progress and the gap created between man on the one hand and nature on another piece of shit, and today it is imposed as an imperative of nature conservation and its protection as a foundation without which there is no sustainable development. The attempt to restore harmony, harmony between animals and the animal world, between nature and man, is exactly one attempt at this law. I come from Dalmatia, more specifically from Dalmatia Zagora, and there's an old term, an old name for all animals except poultry, cats and dogs, which I used to say in ancient times, and that's a treasure. That name speaks for itself. On the one hand, he says what an animal means to man and how it should be treated. The number of treasures, the number of animals was also a synonym of wealth and marked the status of the family concerned. And the way to treat animals was, in a way, a synonym for attention and care when something was to be guarded, so it was an old name, keep it as your treasure. I remember as a child and a blessing on Easter, the blessings of fields and treasures. I mentioned all of this and wanted to express it as my personal position from which I am going to debate this law in view of one intervention that I am going to bring to the law itself, which may not be going to come across the approval of a part of maybe a representative, and I believe perhaps some of the associations. It's about the next one. Article 4(2) of point 5 reads as follows: Training animals means that it is prohibited to train animals to fight, organise or participate in animal fights, visit, advertise and organise betting and participation in betting. In fact, I support this item in this article, but I think that a bullfight should be excluded. What's this about? It is that in one part of the Dalmatian mountain, mainly in the area between Svilaj on the north side and Kozjak on the south side, means the Municipality of Muć, Prgomet, Primorski dolac, there is one tradition, mainly in Radost, the so-called bikini that has been held for 30, 40 years, but it is only a continuation of a long tradition that was present in Dalmatia Zagora, and mainly in that area. So that these bull fights ranged 200, 300 years back and when there was also some kind of prestige for a particular bull to be the strongest in the village. And that was the story of anecdotes, stories, etc. On the other hand, along with the bikinis in Bogdanovici, in Radosic there are also many customs of Dalmatia, the Dalmatian Zagora, when it comes to old folk costumes, about singing. There are geese, diple, there is also one offer that is present, products of domestic activity. We can say about a kind of souvenir offer from that area, and I think it may also be part of the Dalmatian Zagora tourist offer and one contribution, I would say, to the development of livestock farming in that area. Because it must be an opportunity, and it's one trigger that people who deal with livestock to preserve it and with the help of the ministry to gain it in the meaning of which it should be. Given that certain fights in parts of the world of different animals are not legally sanctioned. We know that Spain, which is a member of the European Union, has no prohibition when it comes to both cordials and street bull races in Pamplona. Of course, the amendment that I propose I want to preserve the tradition on the one hand, and on the other hand, I think that preserving that tradition means one stopper, I will repeat, in terms of tourist offer and also in the development of livestock. In any case, I believe that this Law is one good thing, if it goes in two readings, one good basis to get the final proposal of the Law, or the final law. I will propose an amendment to Article 4 unless the Government, or the competent ministry, has done so in the final proposal of the Law. But I believe that in the focus of policy concerns both in Croatia and in the world, both in Europe and in the European Union should be a man in the first place, not a profit. And by doing so, we will contribute and protect our environment, our plant and animal world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65932	Thank you. Honorable representative Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65933	Your Honor, Secretary of State. First of all, I must express my satisfaction, this is one of the first laws that is not such a formal nature as to say that there will be no need for funding from the state budget, that we all know that it will need funds from the budget of the units of local self-government, but that it is not written or quantified. So I think this is very fair and correct, that it has finally been admitted that in this House we are making budgets that are in a certain way, and this law will have a very significant impact on the budgets of the units of local self-government. However, what I would suggest to the applicant is that, therefore, in this point 3. "Assessing the necessary means to implement this Act until second reading" quantifies the necessary funds not at the principle level. So you've expressed here how long it will take, how much money it takes to build one shelter for 100 dogs, and how much it costs to estimate 100 dogs. But we would do well to see how long it will take to build shelters for this law to be implemented. Furthermore, how much of this will then be the total funds to be allocated from the budget of the units of local self-government. So let's see if there's any information on how many abandoned dogs and cats are today and how much they take care of and how much the average cost of taking care of abandoned pets is currently in Croatia. Or, let's see which units of local self-government today are implementing a law that is in force, which units of local self-government don't do so. So it would be good to look at the necessary funds of public money because when it is said that the necessary means of law enforcement should be assessed, then in no case is it just the money from the State budget, but the public money. So, the resources of all the budgets so that we can really look at this situation. If a shelter for 100 dogs takes nearly 4 million to build it, if we have, it's the shelter of a small town. If we have a hundred cities, then the question is, should we really build 100 such shelters? If we need to build 100 such shelters, then it's a huge asset that we're going after units of local self-government. And I think, therefore, it would be absolutely necessary to quantify that need for public money in total. I will look first of all at the provisions of this Law and what will apply to the terms "lost animal" and "forsaken animal" or animal shelter. Therefore, according to the existing law of the unit of local self-government, they have an obligation to take care of abandoned and lost animals and according to the existing law, the period within which care for abandoned and lost animals is 30 days. By dividing it according to the existing Law for 10 days, so to speak. Hygienic service and 20 days so-called asylum or shelter. So far, since this was part of veterinary services, local self-government units had to obtain this through the Public Procurement Act, therefore, by public tender because it always passed the amount of 20 thousand kuna. Now, neither the existing law nor this bill solves that dilemma. So will future animal shelter services when this is not established by the local self-government unit, will they have to be obtained under the Public Procurement Act? Will it have to be obtained by means of the Public Procurement Act, and then the question arises what if someone from Split comes forward to take care of the animal shelter or service in Zagreb, for example? I'm trying to be completely plastic. Or is this going to be exceptional from the Public Procurement Act? Secondly, what if two animal shelters established by a legal or natural person appear in the area of one unit of local self-government, therefore not from that unit of local self-government? With which of these two or more shelters will the local self-government unit conclude a contract to provide that part of animal care services? Furthermore, the animal shelter here gets some other obligations from what we've had so far. So, so far we should be caught and taken care of, so keep it, and here it now comes to the fact that a veterinary service must not be defined as what veterinary services are, so whether it's a cleavage, whether it's sterilization, whether it's something third. Secondly, these animal shelters are required, for example, to be available all the time, which means that for 24 hours someone should be there in that shelter and work and that there must be exchanges of information with the public, so with potential foster parents and other animal shelters. Since we have transferred the whole thing to local self-government units, I think that at least part of this should remain in the obligation of the ministry, for example the competent ministry of exchange of information, so networking of shelters, since the competent body, which is the minister, i.e. the ministry, is issuing authorisation for the work of those shelters, I think that, for example, the exchange of information and networking on itself should be taken over by the Ministry of Agriculture and that it defines where, for example, on a website, one or more ways to say that the animal is in that city or in that shelter, and that it can be domesticated or sought out by a potential, or not potential, but by the real owner who would see and come and take it. What I suggest is that until the second reading, it is quite certain to change, which is the paragraph 4 of Article 58, which defines that therefore the conditions and manner of keeping pets, the way in which they are reproduced, the conditions and the way in which they are held by dogs, etc. determines the units of local self-government by their acts. I don't know how or what a city council should define under, say, the terms of the breeding of pets. So it's really something that I think a very difficult city council would say. And secondly, to have at least one 200 different terms on how to prescribe reproductive conditions. So, I think that when we go to such protection and define such a high standard of pet protection, we should also define this Law, and not leave it to local self-government units and obligations for owners, for example, by making sure that the minimum number of squares of the apartment in which you can hold a cat or a dog, because the question is whether you can hold three cats in one gallery and whether these are really the conditions that these Law says you need to secure an appropriate space, etc., etc. Secondly, the criminal provisions regarding what pet owners have should certainly be incorporated into this Act because all criminal provisions established by the decisions of the local self-government units can be maximum of 200, 500 kuna, respectively, while, unlike that, you have a fine of 30 to 50 thousand kuna. Therefore, I believe that this paragraph 4, clause 4 of Article 58, should be defined by this Law and that it should also be incorporated into criminal provisions. Furthermore, I believe that this Law should also say something about the fact that public areas and the ratio of pets to public areas and the ownership of public areas are therefore the movements of pets. So this is all about private space, is it a pet, but what about pets and public space? For example, I am, I think, in this Law it is absolutely necessary to establish the obligation that the owner of a pet when taking a pet for a walk must have a shovel, a broom and a bag with him. So that something that you would certainly have to have, and we cannot let it be in the provisions of local decisions because you come into a situation that 200 kunas can punish an irresponsible owner. So, I think that, and if, therefore, you give great rights and great protection to pets that certainly this law should also define the great responsibility of pet owners for that. And another sentence. In any case, please install in the law the obligation to microchip all pets in the first year of implementation of this Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65934	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Alenka Kosha Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65935	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to rephrase my colleagues to the part where they're talking about organizing a shelter. In fact, by polymising whether or not public procurement should be done. In fact, in the European Union, projects of shelters and similar animal care facilities are left to animal protection organisations, so it does not deal with the local self-government unit. However, these associations are much stronger than we do and they have their own land in which they then organize various shelters and such associations are mainly financed from various, exclusively donations. With us associations have been cut off from that large part of foreign donations for this purpose and precisely for the reason they have no land, so on the local self-government unit it would be to determine and predetermine the land where the shelter will be organised. You should consider such possibilities in your case.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65936	Replicate response, respected representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65937	So, according to the proposal of this Law, the association could set up such shelters with us because the association has legal status, however, it is not a problem, so the problem is that there are very high conditions for the shelter to be built because if, according to the ministry's assessment, you have to build a shelter for 100 dogs for almost 4 million kunas, then no association in Croatia is currently able to build any such shelter, and here the full responsibility is re-delegated to local self-government units. So if no one else does that then the local self-government unit has to do it. The units of local self-government in our country range from 168 inhabitants to some million of the city's population. So within that range, the size of the units of local self-government and the obligation to have, they have the same obligation, both this one of 168 and this one of the million. That's one thing. And secondly, the question arises why are these veterinary services that can be a very significant item not only of what counterpart Picula said 56 kuna about the diet and accommodation of that dog in asylum but also of the issue of the amount of veterinary services, so it is a cleavage, for example castration or something else that can significantly exceed the amount of this daily meal in that shelter. And with no donations at the moment, they would not be able to do so, but it would be good if the civil sector were involved in this, and that it was implemented by which the responsibility of the owners of dogs is much greater in the European Union, so there are not as many abandoned and lost dogs as there are in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65938	I'm concluding a debate on this bill. Proposal for a Animal Protection Act I am voting on the following conclusion: "A proposal for a Animal Protection Act is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? 87 votes for, 1 abstention and 2 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65941	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the Final Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on holidays, memorials and unworkable days in the Republic of Croatia. The relevant legal provisions stipulate that in the Republic of Croatia, it is to be marked as the Day of the Croatian Parliament on 30 May. This is, of course, the day of mention not only at the first constitutive session of the Croatian Parliament after the free multiparty elections, but also mentioned in the historical role of the Croatian Parliament in the preservation of Croatian statehood. The same provision of the law explicitly stipulates that the Day of the Croatian Assembly is marked in a manner appropriate and dignified in accordance with the historical importance of the date itself and at the solemn session of the Croatian Parliament. The proposed additions to the law allow for the marking of this extremely important date of Croatian history and in another appropriate way, of course solemnly and dignifiedly and what the Croatian Parliament Presidency decides on. Dear colleagues and colleagues, precisely in the exposed sense, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community suggests that this House pass this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65942	Thank you. The Committee for Legislative Affairs, Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System Chairman of the Committee, a respected representative, Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65943	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament at the 55th session held on 24 May 2006 discussed the proposal for a law on the completion of the Law on holidays, mentioned and unworkable days in the Republic of Croatia with the final proposal for a law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community on 26 April 2006. The Committee discussed the draft law on the basis of the competences set out in Article 57. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In the debate, the Committee supported the draft law that the Day of the Croatian Parliament is mentioned as the day of the establishment of the first freely elected Multi-party Assembly on 30 May 1990, marked appropriately and with dignity at the ceremony of the Croatian Parliament or in another appropriate way the Croatian Parliament Presidency has decided. After the debate, the committee unanimously proposed that the Croatian Parliament adopt the Law on the Completion of the Law on Holidays, memorials and working days in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65944	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65945	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I think this is a good initiative, a good solution, to cut down on the protocol obligations of the Parliament. It really doesn't make any sense every year to hold a formal session and hold one and the same... It's not much use. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We must, as a Parliament, focus more on this work, in particular on adapting the law to the European Union. I would like to warn you that in 2002 and 2003, 98 laws were adapted, such as in 2003 alone. 65 and that's the last two years we've stopped at it. So, in the last year, the last meeting of the Parliament was passed and, or adapted to more laws than in two years of this convocation. So this legislative activity, our adjustment job instead of this, would have to be strengthened. And another thing I want to say with this bill. I think the Parliament should also consider other protocol activities and patronages that are being undertaken. The Parliament is a traditional patron of the tragedies at Bleiburg. This tragedy should be marked with dignity, in an appropriate way, and there would be nothing strange about it, it is nothing observable about the Parliament being the sponsor of it. For years, however, people in Ustasha uniforms have continued to appear there, and it is quite inappropriate for the Parliament to be the patron of something where people in Ustasha uniforms appear. Bleiburg is a war crime, but war crime, for example, was the bombing of Dresden. And I'm asking you if it's possible to imagine that when you marked the bombing of Dresden that wasn't a military target, where there was no military industry, where there were no troops showing up in the uniforms of Vermacht. It's unimaginable in a civilized world. And if they showed up like that, they'd end up in jail. We cannot in any way prevent anyone in Ustasha uniforms gathering on the territory of another country, it is a matter of the law of that country. If it doesn't bother Austria, it doesn't bother us, we can simply send a protest note to diplomatic channels from our Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We can't do this anymore. But we can do so that if it is repeated on a regular basis every year, the Parliament should withdraw from patronage. We, the Republic of Croatia, did not create it, it says in the preamble of our Constitution, did not come from the heritage of the NDH, but from the contrary, to the inheritance and therefore such illogicalities should no longer be repeated. It should finally be, explain to those participants there who know for what reasons and who knows what motives they come with, their thing. What do we care? That if it continues with such a practice then the Parliament will simply withdraw from it. So let them mark each other just as they know and under whatever uniform they want while that state... So I support, in a nutshell like this, a proposal like this to reduce protocol activity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm calling and you know the government who often sends us bill proposals and then pulls them back. Well, then, or Parliament adopts the law and they've been sending it to the law for two months now. That's what happened with the VAT because we discussed a VAT reduction here. We were explained that this was necessary, that it was necessary, that it was the fulfillment of the pre-election promise and then in a month came the bill where VAT, the VAT rate, returned to the same level. What were we doing? We've had completely pointless discussions twice. Yeah? The laws are often proposed, so they retreat from the government. It's a little, yeah, yeah, it's a little unserious.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65946	Over, over, over, but I don't think we should do that anymore, is it?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65947	Yes, it's a bit of an inconclusive relationship to the Parliament as an institution. I therefore support that the protocol activities are reduced and that Mr. President thinks about these protocol activities where we are sponsors, which, the phenomena that appear there, may not deserve our high patronage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65948	The patronage shall be given on the basis of the decision of the Bureau of the Assembly. The one who accepts the President of the Parliament that is asked of him. And those based on some parliamentary decision or law such as the marking of the victims of Bleiburg and the crossroads established by Parliament's decision. And patronage according to that. Replica's respected representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65949	Thank you, Mr. President. An esteemed colleague would like to replicate in two directions, actually. The first part when he mentioned the normative activities of the Croatian Parliament, comparing the last two years as the Croatian Parliament in terms of adapting Croatian legislation to EU legislation. There are few, too few laws passed compared to what it was in the earlier period of time. I'll make two points to that. The fact that the amount of legal proposals that pass by number is not at all important is their essence and what the laws therefore regulate in relation to the acquis of the European Union and cartoon in this respect the number of laws in the past two years is absolutely inappropriate and inappropriate, but Mr Stazic does not do it for the first time, and in that sense I think it was necessary to replicate it exactly this way. As regards the second part of my replica, of course, it relates to the patronage of the Croatian Parliament and to the patronage of the Croatian Assembly at the ceremony in Bleiburg and the victims of the crossroad is absolutely unacceptable to the observation or insinuation of the distinguished Mr. Representative that the Parliament thinks or thinks in terms of whether patronage is necessary over this, is it necessary to sponsor the victims in Bleiburg? She's absolutely needed. The Croatian Parliament must continue to do so, but I would remind the distinguished Mr. MPs that this patronage is also based on the decisions made by this distinguished House. So also the Croatian Parliament Presidency. If something in terms of sponsorship itself happens as a marking, which is not in accordance with the protocol, we must not do so in this way as you tried to bring it into question the patronage of this one of the unquestionably important or most important events in Croatian history. So the victims of Bleiburg, victims of the Crossroad, absolutely deserve to be marked by the Croatian Assembly in an appropriate manner and as patron.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65950	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65951	Mr Tomljanović, we have some kind of National Programme for Croatia's accession to the European Union. We should stick to him, too. And you should know we have it. Maybe you should know what it says. And it says that in the first quarter, nine laws were to be harmonised this year. It's not consistent with either one of them. What you think doesn't matter is that it's your personal matter, which is different from what's written in the National Programme and that's different from what you voted for. You are now coming to the contrary, to oppose yourself. First you voted to vote nine laws, and now you're justifying that it doesn't matter that the nine laws were not passed. Then it doesn't matter how you voted. But then it doesn't matter if you're here or not. I mean, it doesn't matter. I know it is inappropriate for you to consider whether the Parliament should be the sponsor of some events where Ustasha uniforms appear. These uniforms can be especially nice and sweet to you. I don't mind. But we have a preamble to the Constitution, Mr. Tomljanovic. And we must stick to these preambles of the Constitution because it is the Constitution of this land. That preamble of the Constitution must be respected by you and I, as well as by the Parliament as a whole. So if he shows up, so if someone doesn't recognize that preamble to the Constitution when marking some anniversary, then Parliament can think twice about it, reconsider its decision on patronage, and that would actually be his constitutional task. And that's what you need to understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65952	Second replica, the respected representative Franjo Arabovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65953	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Emil Tomljanovic spoke nicely, so I would just add one thing. I was just expecting a theme like that to come along these days. But one thing I can say about most Croats is the sacred place of Bleiburg to talk about him like this. Imagine it bothers you a couple of boys in Ustasha uniforms who have no connection, who, who are Austrians, Germans, may not even live in Croatia. Well, that doesn't bother you, Mr. Stazic. It bothers you that the Croatian Parliament is a sponsor. Not that the Croatian Parliament must be but must be both the government and the state headed by the president. And that's the only way we can go forward. That's what's bothering you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65954	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65955	You see, Mr. Arabovic, I think the Parliament should be a sponsor of the marking of Bleiburg, but if it can't be on the Bleiburg field itself because of these things then it can be held in the Republic of Croatia where, however, because of the Ustasha uniform, at least it is a misdemeanor and to be brought into police custody. And you say I mind the few boys wearing Ustasha uniforms. I mind every Ustasha uniform. There weren't boys there, there were older people, but completely irrelevant. Everyone bothers me, and yet I am calling you for the Constitution because of what the Constitution says there, because you swore to the Constitution, you should be bothered by the fact that you don't mind breaking the Constitution of this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65956	Dear Representative Jozo Topic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65957	Well, Mr. counterpart Emil Tomljanovic basically said the most important thing, and I wouldn't want to repeat all this at all. But I think giving up on a further replica, I mean, it doesn't make any more sense than anything else because it's all clearly said. It was also said that a decision on the patronage of the Croatian Parliament was made, and of course the importance of this very patronage and the very mention of Bleiburg and this tragedy. I would just like to remind Mr. Stazic that, Mr. Stazic, you may be really bothered because this impression of a man can get to you at all that the Croatian Parliament is a sponsor of this mention to the victims of Bleiburg, because the fact that you as a prominent intellectual and representative of the Social Democratic Party before the Communist Union never considered it necessary to speak at all about this tragedy that happened there. In fact, by the '90s, there was no need to talk about it and those who would mention it and talk about the tragedy that happened there would have gone very badly. I think you should say something about that, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65958	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65959	About whether or not the Parliament should be a patron, I've already answered, so I won't tell you that again. And of all your replicas, I actually accept its initial part entirely when you said absolutely no, that you're giving up, because there's absolutely no point in replicating, that every replica, and especially this one of yours is completely pointless.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65960	Honorable representative Maria Byte. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65961	Thank you very much, Mr. President. According to Croatian law mentioned in the Republic of Croatia, Sundays are the closest to May 15th, the day mentioned on Croatian victims in the fight for freedom and independence and the 30th day of the Croatian Parliament. In fact, I find it unacceptable to have part of Mr. Stazic's debate on May 15th. It is known to be a tragic part of the history of the Croatian people and I cannot accept it, I cannot agree with Mr. Stazic's thinking that the Croatian Parliament would abolish its patronage over this marking. In 2000, we know that Mr Stazic was the representative who proposed and that the Commission for War and War Victims established by this Assembly was abolished by funds, including the abolition of that law, which was named for each victim. However, when it comes to crimes, the Croatian Constitution is clear and unequivocal and does not allow any victims, and I think we must agree there, and only for a reminder that neither the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, as far as I know, has done much in the launch of the procedure that the Croatian Domobran has initiated to the known perpetrators of the crime in Bleiburg. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65962	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65963	For the third time, when you didn't hear twice, I didn't advocate that the Parliament would stop being the patron of the Bleibur tragedy. Three times, for the third time now or for the fourth time I'm saying it's for her to remain a sponsor, but she can't be a sponsor of the event where people with Ustasha uniforms appear because it contradicts our Constitution. Very clear. As for Vukojevic's commission. Vukojevic's commission did propose the law itself and it was abolished. It has been abolished, and this House's decision has been abolished. By the decision of this Parliament, colleagues were abolished, and it was due to be abolished because it was a commission that, after six years of working, established that 12 Jews and 7 Serbs were killed in Jasenovac, and with that finding, it came before the Parliament. With that finding, she came before the Parliament, caused exactly the rage, the anger of the entire Croatian public. Yes, and that is why I suggested that such an unprofessional, ideological, political commission be abolished and it is good that it is abolished and that the investigation of the tragedy of World War II be left to scientists who will be a little more scientific than Vice Vukojevic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65964	Honorable representative Ivo Lonchar. He's gone. He's losing his word. Vesna Scare Ozbolt. She's gone, she's losing her word. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65965	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I'll say I'm sorry that today this law appeared at a session of the Croatian Parliament. It is a matter of urgency because I understand this law and it is a contribution to the implementation of the detudgement process of Croatia. Yes, it's just a process of detujmanisation of Croatia. On 30 May, according to the first Law on holidays, mentioned and unworkable days in the Republic of Croatia, the date was set for Statehood Day of the Republic of Croatia, the date was personally the doctor of the late Franjo Tudjman, the first Croatian president to determine and propose to be the Day of Croatian Statehood. The process of detujmanisation began on 3 January 2000, and as part of this, it was deliberately determined, this and responsibly, that May 30th was no longer Statehood Day, because every government thinks history starts from it and they purposely did so and turned it into Statehood Day on June 25th when the Croatian Parliament made its first decision even though it was smarter on August 8th if they wanted to, because the decision had no legal force, i.e. October 8th only '91. has been officially published. So, and now there's going on that sequel further, at least I say they had in their proposal, when they already did, although I say most Croatian citizens and today I think it's May 30th, he stayed in their ear that May 30th Statehood Day. And you saw various polls when they asked about June 25th what it was. Nobody knows anything. So what's October 8th, people don't know. Let's let August 5th know that, because he's freed Knin and everyone else, they already know that. And why, I don't know why, I don't know, I don't know why this is now being done here in this Croatian assembly, because at least it was before it was going to be this solemn session. There's no such thing now. Well, at least you made the day of the Croatian Parliament, the cartoon, Dr. Franjo Tudjman. They would have accepted that somehow, if you had put in the day of the Croatian Parliament of Doctors Franjo Tudjman. So let's, let's bring it in once, it's the first president of Croatia, so we can put it on the ones mentioned. So now you've had a chance to put in the day of the Croatian Assembly of Doctors Franjo Tudjman. And in such circumstances accepted. But this way I cannot accept this part, because I believe it is a continuation of the detudgement process of Croatia and that part goes to the end. That part goes to the end and I will not be surprised that a new convocation at all after a certain time erases that 30 May, that it will never be again. Because that's how it's done in a process like that. That's how it's done in terms of destroying someone, if someone wants to take away their role, both historic and stately and in any other way. So I'm really sorry that we're reading this text of the law today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65966	Replica, Honored Representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65967	But I can understand this... counterparts Pera Kovacevic when he talks about May 30th, but I really don't understand why he should ignore October 8th. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is well known what happened on October 8th and that just now the president, the vice president of the then parliament, today's President, Mr. Seks declared the independence of the Republic of Croatia. So October 8th is also a very important date, if it is considered that it was the 3 months after these brilliance talks and the three decisions from the Council of Europe and the day before was the rocketling of the Bane Courts. On October 8th, the role of then vice president, present-day President of the Croatian Parliament of Mr. Seks, is very important. I would really ask you not to participate in the declassification of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65968	Replica response, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65969	And I'd prefer my colleague Kramaric if you told me why you canceled May 30th as Statehood Day. Let me hear it from you first, right? You were, if I heard that part from you first, then it would be easier. And I'm mentioning October 8th and because of those things that you said to me on October 8th because I think when you went so far as to cancel May 30th for Statehood Day that it was more appropriate to determine for October 8th, and for President Shakespeare's sake and for everything that was going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65970	Did the promoter have a need for a final review? Is there a need? There isn't. I'm concluding a debate on this point. Final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on Holidays, the Memorial of Days and Unworked Days in the Republic of Croatia. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. We can vote. The result? With 78 votes for, 6 abstentions and 5 against the proposed law. Some people watch as they print.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65973	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. In front of you is the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Energy Community Treaty, a very important and important contract for Croatia. If this Final Bill is adopted in the Croatian Parliament, Croatia will become part of the European Union when we talk about the energy area. And we know today what energy is, how important it is and how important it is to remove all barriers, barriers to trade and investment in the area and in the energy sector. Otherwise, this contract was created on the basis of the Athens process and the Athens Memorandum of Understanding since 2002 and 2003. The European Union has actually encouraged the countries of this region to adopt a legally binding energy market contract, so for this area of Southeast Europe. The parties to the Energy Community Treaty are on the one hand the European Community, on the other hand the following country: the Republic of Albania, the Republic of Bulgaria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Montenegro, Romania, the Republic of Serbia and the UN Interim Administration in Kosovo. The parties to the contract shall establish an overall market for natural gas and electricity. So when we talk about energy, this contract refers to gas and electricity. Clearly, this contract is based on mutual interest, on mutual solidarity. The Energy Community is tasked with organising relations between the parties and creating a legal and economic framework for the natural gas and electricity market, with the aim of creating a stable regulatory and market framework capable of attracting investment in gas networks, energy production, transmission networks, so that all parties have access to stable and permanent energy supply. Which you know is very important and important for economic development and social stability. The Energy Community is tasked with increasing the security of supply of a single regulatory space by providing incentives to connect to Caspian, North African and Middle-Eastern gas reserves to exploit natural gas reserves, coal and water energy, improving the state of the environment and efficiency, promoting the use of renewable energy sources and establishing conditions for energy trade in the single regulatory area, and developing energy competition on a wider geographical basis and exploiting economies of scale. The entry into force of the confirmed contract on the Energy Community of the Contracting Party shall establish, inter alia, an energy community which means the application of certain parts of the legal property of the European Community with regard to energy, the environment, competition and renewable energy. So, when we talk about taking over part of the legal gain in the field of energy, it means that we are actually taking over the European Community Directives on common rules for the internal electricity market, the Directive on common rules for the internal market for natural gas and the European Community Regulation on conditions for access to the network for cross-border exchanges of electricity. Any Contracting Party not a member of the European Union shall implement these Directives within 12 months of the entry into force of this Treaty. Each Contracting Party shall forward to the European Commission within one year of the entry into force of the plan for the implementation of the Directives of the European Community and of renewable energy sources. The rights and obligations arising from the agreement concluded by the Contracting Party before the signing of this contract shall not be affected by the provisions of this Treaty. And this Treaty does not affect the obligations made in the context of negotiations with a view to joining the European Union. The contract shall be concluded for a period of 10 years from the date of entry into force with the possibility of extending by a unanimous decision of the Council of Ministers. Each party may withdraw from this contract with a prior notice sent 6 months in advance. The Contracting Parties shall approve in accordance with their domestic procedures. They shall enter into force on the first day of the month following the date on which the European Commission and 6 Contracting Parties have informed the 6 countries of the completion of the procedures necessary for the entry into force of such ratification in the parliaments of these Treaties. In order to achieve the objectives set by the Treaty itself, I believe that you have seen therefore the establishment of the institutions of the Energy Community. These are: Council of Ministers, Permanent High-Level Group, Regulatory Committee at meetings in Athens and Forum and two forums. One for electricity and one for gas. Therefore, by way of effect of this Treaty, customs and quantitative restrictions shall be lifted and a legal and institutional framework shall be created which shall allow for the free transfer and trading of energy. This will help attract investors, improve investment security, supply as cheap as possible, protect the environment and encourage efficient use of energy and the development of renewable energy sources. The contract will guarantee all investors on the common market European rights and rules of business and eliminate the risks of finding themselves in some new unexpected big problems following investments due to changes in local regulations. The Energy Community Treaty is concluded with the aim of establishing among parties, which therefore includes the European Union, the whole natural gas market and electricity. So we are becoming a whole market for the European Union. And clearly later, other energy products could be included. This is what we're talking about here today, and this contract is all about gas and electricity. However, other energies are, however, subject to the possible expansion of this contract such as liquid natural gas, gasoline, hydrogen or other basic, network infrastructure when we talk about energy. And finally, let me tell you, although Croatia is therefore in the process of negotiations, we could also say that the start of negotiations on accession to the European Union will become an integral part of the internal European energy market, as an equal participant. The entry into the Energy Community is and I want to say in the end a condition for all countries wishing to become members of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65974	Thank you. The committees. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection. Rapporteur of the Committee, Vice-President, Honored Representative Marko Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65975	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. At its 39th session on 24 May 2006, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a law on the approval of the Energy Community Treaty with the Final Proposal for a Law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the law in question as an interested working body. The Committee unanimously supported the Government of the Republic of Croatia's proposal to comply with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall adopt the proposed law by an urgent procedure. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that the Energy Community Treaty creates a legal framework for network energy with a view to improving the state of the environment in relation to networked energy and energy efficiency, as well as promoting the use of renewable energy sources. The activities of the Energy Community also include the application of the acquis to the European Community in respect of the environment, renewable energy sources and competition. Each Contracting Party shall implement the legal property of the Community in the area of the environment in accordance with the timetable set out in Appendix 2. It is about directives relating to the impact assessment of certain public and private projects on the environment. Reduce sulphur content in a specific liquid fuel. Limitation of emissions of certain pollutants from large plants by burning and conservation of wild birds. The Committee discussed how to achieve a degree of coherence and planned measures and activities suggest that the deadlines for implementing the legal acquis relating to the environment set out in the Appendix are two realistic and feasible for the Republic of Croatia. It was also noted that the translation of the text of the contract in Appendix 2 is under regular number 3 for Directive 2001. 80 EC omitted in 2001 and Article 79 to a regular number of 80 which does not correspond to the original in English. The Committee therefore proposed two amendments to the text of the translation into Croatian. Following the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of Energy Activity Contracts, together with the following amendments. Amendment 1. In translation of the text of the contract into Croatian, Chapter 6 of the decision-making procedure, Chapter 2, measures in accordance with Chapter 2 of Article 79, number 80 is deleted. Amendment 2. In translation of the text of the contract into Croatian, the time schedule for the implementation of the legal gain related to the environment under regular number 3 behind the word "lippad" is added "2001". Of course, we explain this by harmonising the text of the contract in Croatian with the original of the contract. Mr. President, my colleagues and colleagues, I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65976	Thank you. The other committees? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, respected representative Kresimir Cosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65977	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen. On 25 October 2005, the Treaty on the Energy Community was signed in Athens between the European Community on the one hand and the Republic of Albania, Bulgaria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Macedonia, Montenegro, Romania, Serbia and the temporary administration of the United Nations in Kosovo on the other. The Energy Community Treaty is concluded, as is particularly pointed out, with the aim of establishing an overall natural gas and electricity market in order to create a market framework capable of attracting investments in the gas network, energy production, transmission networks so that all parties can have long-term access to stable and permanent gas and electricity supply, which is an essential part of the infrastructure for economic development, social stability, and the harmonisation of the geographical scope of the related product markets. Without this type of integration and integration, there is no fulfilment of the conditions related to the so-called economy of size. Only in this way do conditions and necessary assumptions arise that large and significant investments in the energy sector would indeed take place in the next few years. This area is projected to invest several billion dollars in strengthening this type of joint infrastructure over the next few years. Certainly these investments are a great and significant opportunity for the Croatian energy sector. “Cončar”, “Dalkovod”, “Ingra” and many other institutions of the Republic of Croatia already believe that they are well-prepared, analyze future possible tenders to perform on them as best organized as possible. Certainly, those standards and criteria and European directives, which should guarantee transparency, competitiveness and all that is important for the successful development and construction of and infrastructure in the most economic and efficient way, are very often highlighted in this single market. However, we certainly must not have the illusion that everything will be just as it stands out. Some issues and some recent experiences warn us that we will indeed have to pay special attention to this market in order to minimise all those negative effects of corruption and the evil use of such forms of competitiveness which unfortunately have a tradition in these areas in certain countries. The experiences of Končar only a few months ago warn even though Končar was the cheapest in an important international tender for the construction of a power plant, “Cončar” which was cheaper for six and a half million dollars, or, unfortunately, the euro under conditions of competitiveness, transparency, with the supervision of all those who had to be present did not get their job. This is an important big, future market for investing the capital of many others, but an important and large market as I said in which Croatian engineering and Croatian companies, Croatian consulting can have its significant place making sure that indeed the Republic of Croatia has a quality, especially quality education infrastructure headed by the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing and a series of institutions that have long-standing references in this area. Contracting signatories will encourage a high level of gas and electricity availability to all citizens in order to achieve economic, social progress as well as a high level of employment. It is certainly of particular interest to ensure a stable regulatory framework necessary for a region where close ties can and must be developed especially with the Caspian Sea. I had the opportunity the other day to be on the Black Sea and at the future important port of Constanta, which is the starting point we hope for a large and significant pan-European pipeline. Certainly, connection with these areas through the design and strengthening of this common market provides certain perspectives so that all of those negative trends, which are unfortunately today and in the Republic of Croatia, are seen to grow far faster than new production capacities are growing. The contract shall, as pointed out here, be concluded on a period of 10 years from the date of entry into force with the possibility of extending by a unanimous decision of the Council of Ministers, but also open certain forms of flexibility and tolerance for all those who, possibly during the time of consumption of that contract, may feel threatened. But the threatened can certainly only be those who will not be well prepared, who will not be well organized, who will not be competitive enough. In any event, one such large and significant project is impossible to achieve without adequate organisational assumptions and, to that end, for the purpose of achieving the objectives defined by this Treaty, the relevant institutions of this energy community are also established. The Council of Ministers, headed by, should ensure general policy guidelines, take action and adopt important procedural acts. A high-level permanent group likely to be involved by ministerial assistants responsible for this portfolio will prepare the work of the Council of Ministers, approve requests for technical assistance to be delivered in the future by various international donor organisations to this project, international financial institutions and other bilateral donors. At meetings in Athens, the Regulatory Board will advise the Council of Ministers and will represent a very important body whose meetings will be attended by representatives of local, regional, regulatory agencies. In any case, there will be an important and important place for representatives of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency through appropriate fora for electricity and gas will be possible in every respect of the work of the important energy community in quality and long term. Organisational assumptions and this whole project certainly also requires adequate funding and should therefore be stressed that in 2006 the budget for this project will be fully settled by the European Union. The contribution of the Republic of Croatia to the Energy Community budget for each year will be about 30,000 euros. In any event, because of the importance and importance of this project, this is not a major asset. It is certainly necessary to point out once again that the Croatian economy within this project, within this space, should make a wise and smart use of all the opportunities offered under such a project. At the same time, however, to minimise all those unacceptable forms that can in some ways minimise or compromise the energy interests of the Republic of Croatia. Only such a well-balanced strategy will enable the Republic of Croatia to fully fulfill all its interests within the new energy community. Croatian economy, Croatian engineering, Croatian consulting, Croatian builders can find an important and important place in the next period. For all these reasons, the HDZ club supports the confirmation of the Energy Community contract in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65978	Thank you. HSP club, respected representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65979	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. The HSP Club strongly opposes this agreement for a whole series of reasons. This agreement is actually the creation of an energy Yugoslavia. Camouflage for this whole story is currently Romania's and Bulgaria's membership in this agreement, which will probably come out of it the moment they become members of the European Union themselves. It is not known that the European Union is creating an energy community with anyone outside it. So this concept of ageing the energy community is, in fact, the creation of a strong regional association of Southeast European electricity systems, namely the Western Balkans, there is no Slovenia in this. What first falls into the eyes is the fact that the conflict agreement that is ratified here has not regulated these issues where the bizarre nonsense of Croatian negotiators is obvious. Therefore, as the main argument for the conclusion of this contract, it is said that Croatia must reach its power plants, that is, its half of the power plants invested in the territory of Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and other republics of the former SFRY, today independent states. It's not about the little power to get along. According to the Energy Development Strategy, Croatia has a total installed power on its territory of about 3,000 and 504 megawatts. At the same time 650 megawatts are installed in thermal power plants and hydropower plants outside the Republic of Croatia on the territory of Serbia-Montenegro, i.e. in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which means 18 and a half percent of our energy potential lies outside the territory of Croatia, i.e. 18 and a half percent of our energy can be increased if we get through to our half of the power plants that we invested in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Macedonia and Montenegro. No one argues that this should be done, but it should have been written and it should have been agreed in a concession agreement. However, I repeat, for the bizarre stupidity of our negotiators it was not negotiated at the time. Of course, it would have made sense to go into a series of bilateral agreements with Serbia, with Montenegro, with Macedonia, with Bosnia and Herzegovina, because these are our money and it cannot fail. After all, all those countries inherited and ratified the International Energy Charter, which guarantees such investments. Such disputes are subject to arbitration in New York, for example, by some of the courts there, according to the International Energy Charter. Instead, together, Croatia agrees to conclude such a contract on how to say energy Yugoslavia and thus agree to the fact, acknowledges the fact that it is unable to secure its rights and its investments in the territory of other countries of the former SFRY. That's what we're admitting with this act. And that we should be served as a tutor by the European Commission, that is, the European Union, which, as a big brother, will follow what is happening in energy in this area. With the conclusion of this energy community, Croatia's energy system is becoming dependent on the energy stability of Albania, Serbia, Bosnia, Macedonia, or Bulgaria and Romania, which are not in the problem. But we are therefore becoming energy dependent on their energy security and their energy stability. Because we created an integrated energy system with that. I repeat, instead of a series of bilateral agreements that we could impose and that we could fight for, if nothing by arbitration is based on the International Energy Charter, we create one of these completely unnecessary frameworks that the note does not have planned in either the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement in Articles 12 to 14 speaks of Croatia creating bilateral agreements with other countries of the region. It is not known which region is thought of, but it was clearly thought of the Western Balkans region, which Mr Mimica could say is here. So we are talking about the conclusion of bilateral agreements, not the conclusion of a single package, an energy framework for the entire Western Balkans region, and I repeat the camouflage of Romania and Bulgaria that will come out of the film as soon as they can, or as soon as they become members of the European Union. Could we, then, without this, have secured the power from those power plants? Absolutely. Because let's say that we also provide electricity from Krškog which is not the same in the territory of this energy community. But watch out, we get electricity from Krškoga, so you get electricity because it's based on a bilateral agreement. Slovenia does not therefore have to become a member of this to get electricity from Slovenia. But Slovenia and I have a bilateral agreement on Krško. ... A whole series of bilateral contracts instead of creating one such package that clearly cements Croatia in the Western Balkans, to start in the energy sector. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The European Commission's tutorship here is obviously from another plan. So, clearly, there are a whole range of energy capacities in this area. These energy capacities will likely be slightly privatised by privatisation in both Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia and Montenegro and Macedonia from individual Western corporations. And this framework facilitates the export of produced electricity from that area which will be useful to individual investors from the European Union countries at the moment when the Kyoto protocol is increasingly being implemented and when there are growing problems with CO2 emissions. With this framework, it actually makes it easier to privatise all these systems here and easier to export electricity from this area which may again be someone's interest, therefore speculative capital from the European Union countries but has nothing to do with Croatian interests and I do not really see why Croatia could be in agreement with this. So for all these reasons, and especially because under a) it is unnecessary and b) it endangers Croatia's energy security and stability, HSP is against this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65980	Thank you. Minister Branko Vukelic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65981	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. The truth is quite different from what a respected parliamentary representative here has now said. So there's no word on any ex-Yugoslavia. If there were any ideas, wishes, desires, I let him in the years I've told him since 2002 when the story of joining the energy community began. Here is the subject of a contract between the two sides of the European Union and the countries of Southeast Europe on the other hand. A treaty that comes to the energy community, so both the European Union and these countries. With this treaty it is true, Croatia becomes part of the European Union in energy terms. Part of it. In addition to these countries, another argument, in all meetings, and here in the future meeting of ministers who will be in Luxembourg in the 6th month, observers who wish, as soon as the contract comes into force, will become signatories of the treaty and countries such as Ukraine, Moldova, Norway. This idea and initiative launched by the European Union and the Commission, which is true, is therefore a desire to expand the energy market and rules equal for all outside the borders of the European Union and countries that are not yet in the European Union because this is the need for all countries and Croatia to have energy stability, to have the freedom and equal rights of investment, investment, trade, equal opportunity and availability for energy anywhere. We are finally, I think, at last, clear and familiar, connected energy and with the countries of the European Union and these other countries. No one here with this contract is our new connection and dependence on someone, however, is just as much of a rule as the parliamentary representative Mr. Cosic said, the rules of both our companies and the companies that we have in the energy sector are extremely strong, that they can invest and invest but by the rules that there is no game, that there are in some way subjective decisions that some other interests are conditioned as this story is about "Concar" and Macedonia, so that our companies are also in a chance to invest and expand into those countries where investments are possible when we talk about the energy sector. And I also want to tell you, Croatia today when we talk about electricity covers practically all its needs today. If we look at the trend in economic development, it will not be possible in the coming years. If we are not building and therefore in Croatia we are building new potentials, sources, but why not participate and our companies do not participate in building or investing in such potentials in other countries. We are in energy and in the profession of our institutes, universities, according to our companies that are producing certain segments in energy, in electricity as well as when we look at our company HEP, in the first place in this region, a country that can and must be able and willing to invest, invest and develop further. This contract gives us a chance to do so by the rules that will be known and where a situation like what we have now cannot happen, to resolve a question from the past. This Treaty does not address issues from the past, this Treaty does not address issues of ownership investment during the former state of ex-Yugoslavia, so in some of its republics, because it is a matter which is dealt with in very different ways and which is in the process of resolution. So the investments that were made in Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina will be dealt with by whoever invested, so HEP and the states that are now formed as Croatia together with Bosnia and Herzegovina or Croatia with Serbia, and this is a special business that is now being taken into account, and in fact it cannot be compromised by this contract at any moment. It can only be improved, easier to solve these problems from the past. It can also be facilitated and what will happen in the future, and I repeat Croatia's future when we talk about electricity in particular, but also when we talk about gas we know about our strategic projects such as... such as a merger in all directions, so it gives us a chance for our companies to be one really regional players when it comes to energy, but it also gives us security of supply, energy availability in the entire area covered by the European Union and this country and the idea of the European Union, and everyone who thinks today about energy is such that this energy area is shared with equal rules is still expanding to all other countries, because it's an interest that in today's time when the energy issue of energy is a key issue for the survival of sustainable development of some economic development, but every other energy, then it's an important thing to have the ability to invest, the essential thing to have the same rules to come to trade and buy, we'll finally buy in energy and buy the energy, so we'll buy the energy and we'll get into the energy, so we'll go into the energy, so we'll go into the energy and we'll go to buy the energy, we's, we'll go into the energy and we'. That way, that way we're on our way. Therefore, there is no way to talk about any wrong path here, about any bad chances for Croatia, but it can only be talked about good chances, and in energy, in electricity Croatia has nothing to say in this wider region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65982	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65983	Dear Mr. Minister, your exposure has actually confirmed all my fears. So you clearly said that this contract does not play a role in resolving unresolved energy issues with the countries of the former SFRY, or that it does not really deal with what is really important to us in this case, which is how 650 megawatts of power in power plants that we have invested in the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, Macedonia and Montenegro are being installed. So this serves exclusively for the conclusion of the Western Balkan Energy Community, has nothing to do with Croatia's involvement in the European Union. In addition, Article 1 states that the Member States of the European Community may become members of the European Community in accordance with Article 95 of this Treaty. Therefore, not all the Member States of the European Union are already inside, but it will be if they want to, therefore, those who have an interest in it. 95% of the stake here is the European Union. So she's actually a tutor of this whole process, but at the same time she doesn't guarantee us what we're looking for, and that's to get to her... The power. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this agreement is especially pointless then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65984	Second correction, honourable representative Miroslav Rožic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65985	Thank you very much. First, I am correcting the incorrect allegations by Mr. Minister who said the truth is different than what counterpart Tadic said. The truth is only one thing, and the interpretation can be different, it's obvious. And that one truth confirmed by Mr. Minister by his exposure is that this is not a contract with the European Union but with the countries of the Western Balkans. And as for the whole story that has nothing to do with Mr. Tonci Tadic's exposure to investment in those countries, investments are being secured, Mr. Minister, by bilateral contracts. They don't have to make one deal like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65986	Dear Representative Jaksa Marasovic and the name of the HNS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65987	Dear Mr. President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. This is how I listen to what's being said here, so I can't believe it. Well, I can't really believe it. First, this would be some big Yugoslavia, one 35 million more than it was, people. So, and what the minister said, I, I'm sorry, but I have to confirm, this is still a contract with the European Union. This is a contract with the European Commission. And there's one more thing about these contracts. You don't have to be at all, we don't have to be a member of that. We can go in, sign, and then after six months, we get out, and no one's defending us, so. No one's forcing us to do this, and you guys at home have water heaters, spaghetti, light... Maybe he doesn't even have it at home. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You need to know, you need to know that the transmission system of the former state, like 400 kilovolt rings, was a major security factor in supplying electricity to the entire country. It's the state of the day. And that it's fortunate that this system still exists today. You must know that Zagreb, today HEP, then Elektroprivreda traded with electricity 30 years ago, and with the Germans, and with the Italians, and with the Hungarians, and with the Russians, with Ukraine. And unfortunately, in all this, it's bad that it seems to me that we haven't taken advantage of our position, which stems from this potential that we have, therefore, the potential of knowing the geography we are in. All the transport routes we can use and what our prime minister says we have become a leader in an energy sense. But I'm not going to tell the leader, but at least the coordinator, at least the coordinator of this area and the financial well-being went. I'm afraid we missed that time, no matter what initiatives we've had here long ago. Ten years is an initiative for something like this. First it was for electrical energy then it spread to gas. Tomorrow it'll probably be for oil, but as long as we've got heads like this, while we're turning down the Adria Company, here's Rozic now, he'd be the first against the Adria Society. Yes, as long as we refuse to refuse the Adria Society and while the pipeline serves us for storage, storage, I don't know... What's that oil in it for? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Until we allow gas pipelines to be built across Croatian territory, therefore, as these pipelines go there, Romania, Bulgaria, until we are increasingly, more and more dependent, more energy-dependent on Europe, Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and until we are smaller and smaller in that part, and we have a chance to be first in that part and on our minds and on our potential. And that's our trouble. And I say, you know how much you could get with that, given that we have a first-row hydroenergy, we have 50% potential produced by Croatia in hydroenergy. It's all practically top energy. Everything's practically top energy. Now imagine how much it is, I'll tell you just for comparison, in Italy you get that current one to six times this base energy. Well, if we had those brains, so that we were forced as a partner, as co-ordinator of all this, we could've used it fat, fat. And I'm afraid that as we have so far in our troubles, we're going to trade energy for base 1 to 1, you know. That's how we're gonna do it, and that's how we've done it a lot of times before. And there's the problem. It seems to me, Minister, that you would have to push these to give a little more initiative and take some more steps in that regard. And as for the contract itself, it's a shame he didn't come and a few months earlier or a few years earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65988	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65989	Dear colleague Marasovic, all that you said, I will not mention this part where you highlight the existence of light bulbs and others in the houses of the average Croat, but I am interested in this second part. So, it provides Croatia with some strong top position, etc. In fact, this agreement does not allow. The key position of this Agreement is the position of the European Union participating here with 54% of the decision. That's all it's about. The agreement will not even affect the imbecile projects of the type of upper horizon in eastern Herzegovina where Republika Srpska is trying to derail most of the water from the Neretva tributary and thus destroy Neretva. And we won't be able to influence him. Therefore, it does not stand much of it... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65990	The HSLS Club is a respected representative of Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65991	Thank you, Mr. President. Honored ministers, colleagues and colleagues. You know, it's not really easy to talk after such a Jakša Marasovic who marked his era in Croatia, or a colleague of Tonci Tadic without whom Ruđer Boskovic can't imagine. I always respect Professor Cosic. The minister is a minister. But I have to go back to '99. The year that I, my black hunch about white nights, proved unfortunately accurate and when we found the same interesting thing before, even before the nuclear power plant in Krško with our participation in everything that the Croatian economy was building around Serbia, in Kosovo, in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here's a colleague, Tadic, said those numbers, the minister didn't deny it, and we need to believe that even Krško's nuke from those potentials is actually just a small mosaic. And the problems actually stay that way, and the minister said the same thing that we're not going to put that problem on the agenda. How is it not the subject of a succession and what has happened in these past 15 years that we have these positions and this fact that the citizens of the then Socialist Republic of Croatia have singled out the funds for which Gjerdap I, Gjerdap II was built and that they were not all called those hydropower plants in Bosnia, Sokolovac or I don't know the one in Kosovo, the thermal power plants where really big money was invested by Croatia. It was always kind of a story, I was a professor of literature, so it didn't interest me very much, but since Croatia, how INA was always a company that was supposed to collapse and which was always on, it was, it was in a constant, permanent war with the then government, with... The Council, and Croatia's electricity has always been spared. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And every time I did, we recently had a set of INA laws here. I said that the story about INA is in some way a real story about Croatia. I would not like us in this hall, many of us, let's be honest, we have, we are very critical when the Western Balkans are mentioned, we are very nervous, we respond with really how one can think. And that's on that declarative visible level, and what's going on somewhere else and somewhere that's actually our public not really familiar with it, then every time that Southeast Europe is going to call it or the Western Balkans actually shows up every time. Well, here's the deal. So let's say these Eurovisions. It's also very interesting who's giving us votes, who we're giving votes to. How it actually works in a very fine subtle way. It can also be part of political tactics and strategies, and... political mind, but these are the gentlemen and ladies of the facts that we must face. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Do you think we can relativize this so that we can get out of this, that this isn't binding, but I'm also afraid that we're not missing any of our chances, and we're missing a chance to take advantage of it. Some questions, the issues of the succession must indeed be questions that are very, very expensive issues, these are big money that we don't have. This is where either the 2002 coalitions fell because of the Krško nuclear power plant, so we didn't solve it. I think it could have been different. My colleague Tadic, but I allow and my little one was very quick to prove that it wasn't just the nuke Krško, but that I didn't know there were two, three hotels, several supermarkets, several bridges, apartments, and that nothing went into some partial balance sheet. And we simply gave it up lightly. We're not and we can't act like drunk millionaires. So is this contract. Energy is certainly an important part. I, too, am very clear to me what my colleague Marasovic was saying, we can't act like we didn't live 50, 60 or 80 in a community. And I'm certainly not gonna be paranoid either, so let's just say there's nothing there, it wasn't worth anything. And it wouldn't help either. It's some facts, some premises we have to go from. And it's this, like, energy system and some community that worked. Well, it worked even during the war down in Dubrovnik. There was cash in the money so Dubrovnik could have electricity. That was the part of something called brotherhood and unity in wartime troubles. ... Therefore, he would also ask our minister, or government, and this House, to be careful of such contracts. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I, like my colleague Tadic, have the same fear that it is actually a good field to enter French, English, but those who have their own interests and it is completely legitimate and then again in this state of addiction. As well, I must agree that in some things we finally define the strategic national interests of Croatia in terms of energy. Because we simply can't act like energy isn't important, because at the end of the day, what it means is exactly some planning, some future, some sustainable development, if we really act on every project, is how we tend to act, and we don't see all the benefits of certain projects. But also as much as we can, and this House can be a guarantee that these and such interests are preserved. So from this, as far as the HSLS club is concerned, it's quite clear that, in fact, these contracts of the international type are, yes, difficult not to support them. After all, we need to be clear when we went to Athens there if I'm not wrong there in 2002 then it wasn't just the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities which was also one of the conditions, but somewhere under the table they were hiding and some of these solutions and it's quite clear that our position in the international game is what it is. But if it is accepted it still does not mean that we cannot change these existing relations and that we are right to see and that this Assembly, to come with one thematic debate where we will open this very issue of the energy future of the Republic of Croatia and precisely those of our dead capital that are still standing there, somewhere, squatting in Đerdapa in Kolubara, Kosovo or Bosnia and Herzegovina and even elsewhere where there is my smallness as an average citizen of the Republic of Croatia who uses electricity and gas. So we'll see how the debate develops and what the minister will say in his final exposé. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65992	Thank you. Representative Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. She's gone, she's losing her word. Final review, Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Branko Vukelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65993	Thank you very much, Your Honor, President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honors and Gentlemen. I want to say it one more time, and I'm going to agree with, here's some debates. There's only one truth, no more truth. Our impressions and impressions may be different, but in the materials you have in both English and Croatian the text of the contract. Contracting parties are clearly defined. There's two parties to the contract. On behalf of the European Union, the European Commission, of the one part, and all of these countries, of the other part. These Contracting Parties shall also establish the conclusion and establishment of the Energy Community. That, therefore, is what is evident here. I'm still repeating one clear thing that can be seen from this. Therefore, Croatia and these countries of the European Union are both interested in the common energy market and joint investments and, I would say, ensuring stability of supply, security of electricity supply. This is not a subsession contract and sharing some problems and solving some of the problems in the past. Which does not mean that the government and HEP, if we are talking about electro-energy, is not involved and is not talking bilaterally to the countries that were formed after the collapse of the former Yugoslavia. So my last visit to Belgrade and Serbia was, among other things, the subject of Obrenovac and the agreement to start talking to it in a month because it's there, let's say, somewhere around 20 kilowatt hours of electricity. So something above one annual consumption and it is Croatia's great interest to gain that energy. Because we're looking for her and we're right. This is how we deal bilaterally with Bosnia and Herzegovina, as far as the nukes are concerned previously resolved bilaterally with Slovenia. So no one's saying that, that's not what you're doing. But here this contract is something else entirely. And in the end, two elements are important for which I consider Croatia to be of interest because in this contract Croatia is on the side of developed countries of the European Union, when we talk about energy. And there's an interest in participating in investments in other countries. In Croatia now there are investments from other countries, we have Germany, we have Plomin. What are we talking about? We don't think we're gonna stop investment. So we can't say as a country in investment and investment no, but in the rest of the economy give us some foreign investment. So, we have opted for a free market, but in this energy issue Croatia has an interest in investing in both Serbia and Kosovo and Bosnia and Herzegovina where energy and potential sources are particularly, hydropotentials are far greater, stronger, and we know that this is the cheapest energy. Power from hydropotentials. So I think it's quite clear here that there's an interest, that there's no trap and hidden story of going to any kind, any group of countries. And what's the former state and creation, but what's the subject here is that countries that are in this region, that countries that want to join, which I mentioned and which are now observers, want to join such an energy community, and if it's the interest of all countries, to deal with their issues of availability and security, stability of energy supply, and that's the key issue, that's what this contract is about. And I really ask that we do not look at this story in the context of something that does not say and does not have, but on the basis of this text and contract which is also of interest which is behind it both for Croatia and for all countries. And I really ask that this Treaty proposal be supported, or the Treaty Confirmation Act, because, I repeat, it is certainly in the interest and further development of the energy sector in Croatia, and further stability of supply. And I'd say, it's an interest, so if we want to, and to solve these bilateral problems in relation to some former investments in the neighbouring countries. That this contract can also be our only help, and that bilaterally with each country we need to arrange and resolve. No one's questioning that, but it's not the subject, I repeat, of this contract, and that's why you can't say that we've given up on something. We didn't give up. These potentials we have, we have not given up, but these potentials and those energy rights from those countries we have and which we are looking for will not solve Croatia's long-term energy story for the next X years and we have solved the words. Because after that, we have enough, we return what Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina owes us, and we have energy solved and we need nothing. It's not true, it's not true. Energy consumption is increasing, however the development of the economy and society as a whole and we need to have when we talk about energy, both a 10-year and a 20-year vision and security where these energies are, whether they are available to us and how in some way we will be the ones active in finding, providing energy sources for Croatia and for the needs of the Croatian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65994	Thank you. Tonci Tadic, correction of the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65995	Dear Mr. Minister, it is not true that these potentials are irrelevant. In Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, there is more than 18% of Croatia's potential energy potential, but what is more important to me is that the Croatian Constitution, Article 2 of Article 141, prohibits the conclusion of agreements that could lead to the renewal of the Yugoslav state union. And for this contract, ladies and gentlemen, it will take a two-thirds majority, and the late President Tudjman would turn to the grave to hear you from HDZ talk about it now.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65996	Dear Representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65997	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, quite incorrectly, this contract is a two-sided legal business. Citing the conclusion of a contract between the European Commission and countries, it is a multi-party legal job. You can see that from the signature. Well, only his explanation suggests what counterpart Tadic is saying, and that's not true. It is a multi-party legal job because all countries must participate in the conclusion of this contract. This is the case, and it lists it as a two-sided legal work, as a community of countries and the European Commission, which is simply not from the material attached.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u65998	I'm closing the debate. We'll continue at 3:00 a.m. on the agenda. It's 1:00 P.M. Final proposal of the Law on the approval of the Energy Community Treaty. The amendment was submitted by the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection. Secretary of State Vladimir Vrankovic, please be clear. Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66000	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66001	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66002	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66003	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the law. Before voting on the final draft of the law, I am voting on the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system given at the request of the Club of Representatives of the HSP, because the HSP Club held that this bill should be voted on in order to be a positive two-thirds majority. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system gave its opinion which it considers not to be necessary for the majority, so let us vote on the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 72 votes in favour, 10 abstentions and 5 against the board's opinion was accepted. I am now voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 81 votes for, 3 abstentions and 3 against, the law was passed in the text as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, continue the session. The proposal for a decision to declare "National Day of Donation and Transplanting of Organs and Tissues" is proposed by the Government. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Labour, Social Policy and Health. The minister will explain the possible proposal later. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66005	The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health at the 53rd session of the Committee held on 25 May 2006 discussed the proposal for a decision to declare "National Day of Donation and Transplanting of Bodies and Tissues" which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 10 May 2006. The Committee discussed the proposal as a home working body in accordance with Article 75. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The opening argument was tabled by the applicant's representative. After a brief discussion, the Committee members supported the decision to declare "the National Day of Donation and Transplanting of Organs and Tissues". Marking the National Day of Donation and Transplanting of Organs and Tissues will introduce the public to the importance of organ and tissue donation after death. By raising national awareness of the importance of the transplant programme, it also points to the nobility of the organ and tissue donation after death as an act of great ethical value and expression of solidarity and love for the neighbor. After the discussion, the Committee members unanimously decided to support in the Croatian Assembly the decision to declare "National Day of Donation and Transplanting of Organs and Tissues".
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66006	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66007	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. The organ donation doesn't require a reward, it's a reward for itself. John Paul the second said "All that can serve the living is sin to bury." For transplant medicine, it is very important to promote it in society, to report to the public on the importance of organ and tissue transplantation, to create sound public opinion, to support the public. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports the proposal for a decision to declare "National Day of Donation and Transplanting of Organs and Tissues" as a further step in sensitising the public, raising the company's transplant consciousness for this extremely important area of medicine. The growing need to transplant parts of the human body is the result of increasing opportunities and success of transplant medicine, as well as broader indications for transplant treatment. Although the method is generally accepted, ethically and economically justified, the number of organs taken from the deceased has not increased enough and the problem of the lack of the transplant body is current in us but also in the world. Let's remind ourselves of the first kidney transplant, 1988 heart, 1990 liver and lung transplant in Croatia in 2002. In 2003, new operating techniques for more organic transplants were introduced. The need for bone transplants, bone marrow, skin, and corneas is increasing. Our doctors perform complex transplant procedures that are due to European and world achievements. The need for organ transplants is growing about 16 to 24% a year, unfortunately, and the number of deaths on hold is rising by about 18% a year. Today, there are over 50,000 patients waiting for a transplant in Europe, with 900 in Croatia. About 150 operational procedures related to organ transplantation have been carried out in Croatia annually. Fortunately, the number of donors in Croatia is increasing. Another 2000./2001. We were at the beginning of the European countries ahead of Greece to move away from us already in 2002, to take right behind Sweden and Switzerland from 9 donors per million inhabitants, and a significant positive shift continues in 2004 which places us as an average of 13 donors per million inhabitants. The Croatian donor network also plays a significant role as a voluntary organisation from part-round civil society. The donor card was and is at the heart of public actions in the Western European countries, and an important place is taking place with us. Official Croatian donor card under the motto "Life on Gift". Why... is the donor card signed? So when a positive attitude of the deceased is known, the family in 90% of cases gives permission to take organs, and without this familiar attitude, family consent is significantly lower and is 50% lower. Of crucial importance in the collection of organs and professional involvement of health services. Due to respect for the personal dignity of the deceased person and her family, doctors are reluctant to ask the family for permission after the death of their patient, and it happens that family is not asked for permission at all or often refuses to give their consent. Therefore, we should be constantly reminded that taking and transplanting parts of the human body for the purpose of treatment is of paramount importance. The World Health Organization adopted a resolution on human organs and tissues transplantation in May 2004. In order to raise the awareness of the citizens, on 14 October 2005, the first world day of organ donation and transplantation was announced and marked. In Europe under the auspices of the Council of Europe at the beginning of October each year, the European Day of Donation and Transplanting of Bodies, which is intended to introduce the public to the importance of the donation of organs and tissues after death as a noble act of great ethical value and an expression of solidarity and love for the closer and subsequent government of the Republic of Croatia, has proposed to mark the National Day of Donation and Transplanting of Bodies and Tissues as a sign of commitment to development and medical activities and the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community, supports the adoption of the proposed proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66008	Thank you very much. Minister of Health, Neven Ljubicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66009	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. So here we have this proposal to declare the national day, the day that I think we actually owe absolutely to all those involved and in the transplant process to all patients and who are transplanted and, of course, to all those who are waiting for a transplant. What I would certainly like to remind at the beginning of several facts, which is that in May 2004, the World Health Organization adopted a resolution on human organs and tissues transplants. Of course, in order to raise awareness of the transplant and awareness of the total citizens on 14 October 2005 was declared and marked 1. World organ donation and transplant day. In Europe, the transplant day is also marked under the auspices of the Council of Europe. I think that according to this, and with the goal of raising our national awareness of the importance of the transplant program, there is a clear need to mark the national day of donation and transplantation of organs and tissues. What we've suggested, and I think you'll follow it with approval, so it's May 26th, and the question is, why on May 26th, so it's tomorrow. It is personal because tomorrow Croatia is signing a significant act, which is the contract under which we enter into co-operation with Eurotransplant, which is the largest transplant network in Europe. The members of these transplant networks are Austria, Germany, the Netherlands, Denmark, our neighbours of the Slovenians, so a whole series of European Union countries, and this is another indicator that Croatia is firmly moving towards the European Union because, of course, our full membership in that association will be one part and conditioned and full membership in the European Union. However, by joining Eurotransplant, we have moved far away in the region, and that was simple I will just tell you that Eurotransplant required us to meet 60 criteria exactly. 60 quality criteria that had to be fully met and we have worked very intensively for the last year and here I am pleased to say met all the criteria Eurotransplant has sought. That we recognize this moment in Europe, but what I will say in the world and this will show tomorrow a great event here I call you to join us, the event of the signing of the agreement with Eurotransplant where our guests will be the world's most valuable experts in the field of transplants, but also our experts and this symposium will practically dedicate the moment of Croatian transplant in the context of world achievements. That... transplant medicine in the Republic of Croatia is certainly not random. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For the last two years, we've been working intensively on models to improve the transplant, and I think we're on the best track, and that shows results. In the first 4 months of this year alone, the transplant was almost twice as much as in the first 4 months of last year. This is the data we can absolutely raise ourselves with, and of course if we know that last year in Croatia was a record by number of transplants. What's important to say is how we actually managed to do it in the first place are always our healthcare professionals, doctors, nurses, quality staff full of enthusiasm that went into the transplant process, which I simply wore to say so by taking off, here literally for miracles, almost every week we have a multi-organic transplant, so a couple of organs are being transplanted together and I think that these are big, big steps and just declaring this national day will be sort of a big recognition for them too. By forming a separate financial item as outside, as items that are located outside the hospital budget, and such a model is known everywhere where it tries to push certain things, so where it tries to affirm them, in such a way with some new organisational models here I think we've made a big, big step. Once again, I hope that here you will unanimously support the National Day for Organ and Tissue Transplanting and once again give recognition to all those involved in this process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66010	Thank you. The HNS club, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66011	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I have found in my 2006 calendar a day that is not a day of something, whether international, European, or Croatian, we will have another day of something in Croatia, and I am afraid that the announcement of one day, on the day of voluntary organ donation, will not make much progress in the purpose to which Mr. Minister has explained it right now, and obviously or I have incorrect information or something wrong. In late 2004, we adopted in this House the Law on Taking and Transplanting Parts of the Human Body for the purpose of treating what was good, and supported it with several suggestions, remarks and suggestions, and the basic objection was to the concept that Croatia then introduced that practically all of us are potential donors unless we explicitly oppose it, and we do not only declare our opposition to a general, family or own doctor who then sends it to the Ministry of Health and according to information that I have about 3 thousand Croatian citizens used this right and made a statement that they oppose organ, tissue or cells for the purpose of treatment. I then advocated and claimed that this donor card which was when nothing in Croatia played an extremely significant role instead of opposing statements, papers and documents, we use what we already have and what we pay dearly, and that the decision on whether positive or negative as my own decision that I want to respect those who will be asked to enter the health card. What does this chart normally serve, this card if it can't be stored with information about my decision. Would it not, to a large extent, free me from marriage mates, children, relatives who, at tragic times, have to answer the question whether they agree or oppose the use of body parts of their loved ones for implantation, or transplants for treatment purposes? I again suggest that the Minister of Health help the campaign to decide the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in a way that I declare my decision when I receive or change a health card asking everyone to respect my will and the decision I have made. You will free the doctors who have already broken the paperwork and yourself in your ministry by keeping records but what I particularly care whether the law itself and this day and the donor card have made major shifts in the Republic of Croatia. According to the data available to me in 2005, which was the first year of full application of this law in Croatia, 94 kidneys, 40 livers, 6 hearts, 9 lizards, no bone marrow data, and there were 44 canaveric donors. Compared to 2004 for kidney transplants, it was one less in the past year, no more, in the liver three less last year than in 2004, in the heart two less than in 2004, in the lizard two less than in 2004 and the number of canaverian donors was 44 and 2004. 59. Perhaps the first four months of this year are these results that the minister today said were twice as strong as in the first four months of last year but I took what I had. So there hasn't been a major increase in transplants, or at least I didn't get that data. And not only may it be that the insufficient number of Croatian citizens is ready to do so and not just because they may not be sufficiently addressed to the importance of donorism, not just because they are not dressed enough, referred to the views of churches and religious communities on the subject. Perhaps even one problem is that until the end no accreditation procedure has been carried out for... General hospitals. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Maybe it's one of the reasons why we didn't bring an end to the issue of stimulating and technical equipment for displanting hospitals. Perhaps one of the reasons is that for one multi-organic expansion, life support and on the apparatus of a potential donor is the cost of an institution of several tens of thousands of kunas that no one pays, charged with a regular hospital budget. Perhaps the reason is that there is not enough continuous campaigns, education and training for citizens, which is what it is. I must admit that I am looking forward to a new package of health regulations, and I want to believe that these problems relating to abortions and transplants other than the announcement one day in the year of the donation will also be recognised in that section called institution equipment, approval of specializations, especially those designated by the ministry as hospital coordinators. According to law, each hospital institution should have one of the persons designated as the coordinator of the plantation, which can do tremendously much in the local community to propagate it. But they too need to be helped in the sense that they can act in this way and I feel that they are quite locked up in these frameworks without stimuli, without the incentive to talk about the topic locally. And I'm expressing the following. In the current legislation and in the proposals that we had at the time as a previous debate, we had a special status of voluntary blood donors when it comes to administrative fees or other obligations. I want to believe that in the new Croatian legislation one donor of bone marrow or other tissue or skin will have at least the same treatment as a voluntary donor of blood that we do not now have, has not been suggested. So I'm pointing out, and it's not too late. And data that are really still to be considered. If I'm not mistaken, in April of this year, there were 683 citizens of this country waiting for a new kidney, at the heart of 29, liver 35, corneas of about 300 potential recipients. These are data that really require all of us to talk about this topic not only about the Assembly speaker but about everywhere we can influence, that everyone in our family and the neighborhood encourages us to make such a decision but also about doing everything that medical staff and doctors and all those who participate in the chain that takes an extremely short period of time to come up with a decision on the possibility of being able to perform the transplants for the purpose of treatment or further transplants. So we will support the declaration and adoption of this law. I just want to say that we are not fooling ourselves by making great progress and doing a lot of work if we talk about it only once a year about that day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66012	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66013	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Lesar, said in his debate that the number of transplants is insufficient and because it is burdened by a regular hospital budget. I'd say it's not true here. The Croatian Institute of Health Insurance in order to encourage organ and tissue transplants from 1.1.2006, in particular, pays such services just to stimulate these procedures and everything related to the transplant, means that the data is not correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66014	Thank you. Honorable representative Lucia Chikesh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66015	Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Minister! At first, I would like to point out that I truly earnestly support the marking of the National Day of Gifting and Transplanting of Organs and Tissues. I believe that the proposed date of marking was rightly chosen on 26 May because the presence and membership of the Republic of Croatia in the eurotransplant is very desirable and necessary. I am convinced that by marking this national day of organ and tissue donation we will simply remind ourselves of the need to think about it and that we are all thinking about this need, about the need for organs and tissues that are growing every day and rarely represent the only way of treatment. And it was my colleague, Lesar, that he mentioned earlier that even passing the law didn't exactly contribute to any increase in these transplants and the increase in transplants I even have ahead of me and the chart. And this is the chart issued by the Croatian Donor Network and we have no reason to doubt it where it really shows to what extent Mr. Lesar is both law and perhaps the consciousness of all of us together and the warning of this helped from day to day, I have it in front of me, where day to day that there is an increasing number of potential donors. Because by promoting the culture of tissue and organ donation, we also contribute to the quality of life and life at all. Among 900 people as you stated, it is but it is from, of course, from this Croatian donor network report as long as it waits for the total today, and this is the report from April of this year where 683 people, 29 people, on the heart, on the liver and 35 people, and 300 of them are waiting for the rose. And I say between them 900 per chance now how many are waiting for them... The werewolf was happier when she was given a kidney transplant, and when she felt for herself what it means to live better and better, she said in an interview that she would give all her organs when she needed it because I know how much life can save human kindness. [[The speaker is not understood because of the interference in the video.]] And that is why this statistics that we saw earlier warns us about how long does the donor wait for them, according to Croatian, to report to the Croatian donor network how many people are waiting for potential donors and how long is it waiting? It worries that waiting time is quite long because 20% of them get the necessary organ or the required tissue over one year and even 31% are waiting for more than 6 years. And just maybe this reason is because of this waiting and to pay attention and at least this one day a year, but that day when we're all going to think one way or another about whether or not we're going to donate our organs and tissues? According to this, according to this, after this law was passed and after the financial preconditions were created to improve this process and exploitation and transplantation, also colleague Lelic presented the information. In the course of three years of nine donors per million residents, we came to 13 donors. It's a shift. It's not that important when you're like this, but please nice is the move forward and the big step. Perhaps this is an opportunity to thank and thank all those who have decided so far and who have donated their tissues and organs to save others and perhaps those who think about it and want to do so to thank them, and perhaps the occasion and the marking of this day, that we also thank all those medical staff who are truly self-sacrificely doing very professionally, very ethically these complicated medical procedures for the benefit of those who need it and for the benefit of promoting the culture of life and life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66016	Thank you. Replica is a respected representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66017	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, colleague Chikesh said she was using Croatian donor network data. I also presented the data exclusively of the Croatian Donor Networks only I was used not in the chart but in exact figures. But when you mention the chart you showed then for the sake of the public, we should say that this increase in the chart didn't begin in 2005 or in 2004 in 2003, but in 2000, when the number of donors began to rise rapidly and in kidney, liver, heart and bone marrow transplants, which is not the consequence of this law or other mechanisms that we've been dealing with for the last two, three years. This sudden growth corresponds to the moment Croatia's donor network was created as an NGO with its own resources and efforts, with enthusiasm by two, three doctors in Croatia began to propagate the decision on organ donation. We can thank them only for this, and instead of monitoring and helping with the financial resources of local communities and the state budget, we boast that we have contributed. It wasn't us. They did it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66018	The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative, Lucia Chickesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66019	... /The speaker was subsequently turned on./... In no way can we reduce this humanitarian work and the volunteer work of that association. Not at all. Yes, of course. But we can't even minimize this other side. I'm not reducing anyone's stake in this.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66020	Dear representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66021	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. I support this decision to declare the national day of donation and transplantation of organs and tissues. I don't think there's room in this debate for some major analysis, transfer, discarding because what's the fact that there are too few organ donors in Croatia today, that we have too few transplants. That there is actually one big space that can still be made and in this sense every single one of them, and even the slightest action that can encourage a citizen or citizen of the Republic of Croatia to decide to be a potential organ donor, I think it certainly makes sense because it can be saved simply one or more lives. Why am I saying that? The question of such decisions, personal decisions about it I will or will not be a donor of organs much greater and deeper than whether I will buy this apartment or one or buy such a property because it affects its own values, some kind of own ethics. And in that sense, I think it's good that this day is also in the fifth month. Then it can also be recorded in October world and European day that in some way long and persistent work both by the state and by associations and by public figures in some way all together promote organ donation as one desirable behaviour, as one desirable civil solidarity if we will. I personally signed a donor card years ago and I think it takes especially for younger people to report as organ donors, because we can appreciate life and appreciate life as the greatest value, but the fact is that as silly as it may sound now, the organism of a young man in some unfortunate situation can really save many, many lives. Furthermore, in his debate, Lesar presented many thesis regarding changes to the law. On the contrary, I think it's a good thing that we've changed the law and that the provision where, apart from those who explicitly don't oppose it, we've declared ourselves or defined ourselves as donors, is better for the affirmation of the donation itself, that is, the donation of organs than what we've been until now, that we're all except for those of us who have declared that we're not donors that we're not actually. What I'd like to say is I think that this system should bind, I don't know how many of you have experience signing donor cards. But if I write back my data, it is nowhere in the database that I, Maria Lugaric, have signed a donor card and that I am a potential organ donor. It's just something, you get the card yourself and you fill it in, and in that sense that the efforts that may be taken by the state, especially now that it's a statement from the doctor, especially if it's going to go to some kind of information system that there's got to be a possibility that these data might be tied to each other and that we really who made the wish that one day we were donors of the organ exist, and not just that I was kind of satisfying my own values, my own ethical principles when I declared myself as a potential organ donor. What I would also like to warn you about this debate is the fact that if everything works out, if we do good actions, again I say doctors and the public and NGOs and states and all of us together that we will be organ donors and hopefully more transplants in parallel with this will go to the progress of technology, progress of medicine and facts is, and it has already started to happen that more and more ethical issues will be opened up. We already have debates about transplanting organs from living donors and various other combinations, and I think parallelly how we are developing a system of organ donation promotion that needs to develop this one in some way ethical code because it will be a growing and larger problem, and on the other hand, the whole sensitization and public and the profession around this problem should be used to establish a new set of ethical standards that will inevitably come with the progress of medical technology, I apologize if this is not a medically correct term. And finally, when I took part in a campaign to promote organ donation, then I said that it was very easy to come from a list of potential organ donors to a list of those waiting for an organ to be donated to them, or to a transplant. And in that sense, I would really invite people to plead as donors, as organ donors, because I think these issues, these issues that establish a new system of values based on social solidarity and social responsibility, have a lot more meaning than what our own value decision is about whether or not we are for such things. I support this decision, and I hope that it will bear little fruit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66022	Dear representative Ljubica Brdarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66023	Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I'll pick up where my colleague Lugaric stopped. We are ahead of us with a proposal for a decision that I am sure will be unanimous and that should not even be discussed. But the nobility that is actually the basis for such a decision is endowed with rare people and they deserve regardless of the inflation of the day of this or the fact that they get one day, because what many of us do is not ready for it. And anything that would help us get at least one donor more is worth the effort, so so is this decision. I won't talk about statistics, the number of those who wait and the number of those who donated organs. One case of acquaintances who lost their 18 - year - old son accidentally prompted me to think because they managed to rise from a superior tragedy and donate his organs. That young man didn't finish high school. He'll never graduate, never start a family, never have children. But he has succeeded what many of us, most of us will never achieve. With his death, he made it possible for a few people to live. With his eyes, someone looks, his heart beats in someone's chest, his lungs breathe for another person. His parents managed to rise above the personal tragedy of his death to give meaning and his whole life in fact. They made his young life not end in vain, that he was not in vain, and that their loss in some way was not in vain. Their example is inspiring, and I've been thinking about whether in their position I'd be willing to do something like that. I'm not sure, and that's why I admire them above all else, and I respect them and all those people who are donors, who have pleaded as such, who have already done so, and those who will do so. Because there's no greater value than human life, and whoever saves one life says he saved the whole world and I believe so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66024	Thank you. Final review by Minister of Health and Social Care Neven Ljubicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66025	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Namely, there's nothing left for me but to thank you for your unanimous support, so here I'm going to take this opportunity and announce here's a new project because we're going to go on, we're not going to stop at this, and we're having this exact moment of corneal problems, and here's a chance to announce two new corneal transplant centers, and I hope you're going to support this, too. The donor card is a great promotional material, so here's a chance for all of us to get involved in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66026	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. The proposal for a decision to declare the National Day of Donation and Transplanting of Bodies and Tissues I am voting on the proposal for a decision. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 87 votes in favour and 1 abstention of the proposed decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66029	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Before you is the proposal to appoint judges of the High Court of Commerce of the Republic of Croatia and unfortunately not for the first time. Otherwise, in the trial of certain types of proceedings, and even before the High Commercial Court, judges who are not lawyers are also mostly not, or judges appointed as judges under the law. Judges of the jury of the High Court of Commerce appointed under the Law on Courts by the Croatian Parliament on the proposal of the Minister of Justice to be represented by representatives of all counties. This proposal, in the opinion of all the Presidents of the Trade Courts, was thus drawn up this time, along with the proposal, the résumés of all candidates, their statements of acceptance of the place, and that the degree of duty would not be in conflict of interest, as well as the conviction of the competent court that criminal proceedings or investigations are not being conducted against them, i.e. the belief of impunity. I am saying this because recently when the debate on this same proposal on March 2nd was justified, the Ministry of Justice was returned to jurisprudence for showing doubts about the correctness of the data, i.e. that the best candidates who meet these conditions are proposed. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Department of Justice is indeed expecting and hopes that this list is indeed right now, that this is proved and supported by the evidence provided and that the proposal will be adopted and voted on by the judges of the High Court of Commerce of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66030	Thank you. The chairman of the Justice Committee, honourable representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66031	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Madam Secretary of State. At the 41st session held on 9 May 2006, the Court of Justice Committee for Judges of the High Court of Commerce of the Republic of Croatia discussed the proposal submitted to the Croatian Parliament by the Minister of Justice on 7 April 2006. The Committee for the Justice of the Croatian Parliament, in line with the mandate of the 19th session of the Croatian Parliament since 2 March 2006, has established the following. That the Minister of Justice has submitted a new proposal for the appointment of Judges of High Court Judges by means of an act of 7 April 2006 in such a way as to ensure that all counties are represented, that the opinion of the President of the High Court of Commerce on the proposed candidates has been obtained and that, with each proposal, the candidates' résumés have been provided with a résumé, a statement of acceptance of the appointment of the judge of the jury and a statement that they are not in conflict with the interests of the jury. And so was the conviction of impunity. Following discussions and insights into the applications in question, the Committee on Justice unanimously adopted the following conclusion. So proposed to the President of the Croatian Parliament to include in the agenda of the 20th session of the Croatian Parliament the point of appointment of judges of the High Court of Commerce of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66032	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. No one checked in. I'm closing the debate. The appointments of judges of the High Court of Commerce of the Republic of Croatia I am voting on the candidate's proposal. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 80 votes in favour and 6 abstentions, the proposed decision was made.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66035	Your Honor, Mr. President. The day to discuss this subject is very good, time is not ideal. Today is the Day of Youth and the day of the birth of another Tito, so it is good to symbolically associate this debate with these important historical events. It is not good because this proposed declaration by the HSP Club and my smallness is in some way derived from the Declaration of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which is the fundamental purpose of making the debate of this type accessible to the general public. I will say that the crimes of communism, unfortunately, are still at the pre-phase of social awareness. As you well know in the early years of the Homeland War, quasidoctrines were created as they were in the so-called so-called so-called war. Defense and justice wars cannot be committed by crimes, by individuals, by crimes against humanity, by other war crimes. Unfortunately, most of the communist ancestors are still in those positions. And if you look at the debates every year on the occasion of the marking of Bleiburg and Crossroad, there is one massive denomination of crimes that took place in the territory of Croatia, the former Yugoslavia and in the wider context. I brought two books here. The first book is "The Manual of Crime", which is a famous book called "The History of the Allied Communist Party of Bolsheviks", known in the people as "The Short Course of the CAPB". It's a book that was printed by Culture back in the '50s, before that, '45. A year. It appeared in a story of some 150 thousand copies, and it was written in a narrative form that the average at that time of educated members of the communist movement can understand why, how and when to kill, persecute, humiliate enemies of the internal and external revolution, or future paradise on earth. That book is how you see the great content, I'll talk about it later, and this is the result of that book. It's a famous book on crimes, "The Black Book of Communism." As you can see, there is a huge discrepancy in the thickness of the manual and in the results of the repression. Now something about the proposed declaration itself. First of all, I think the approach of this High House to the crimes of communism was sort of superficial. You will recall that, in Parliament, the Commission of the Republic of Croatia has been formed in its own time to determine the victims of war and vice, led by Mr Vice Vukojevic, the current judge of the Constitutional Court. However, his approach to the topic has in some ways funded the idea itself. And now just something about the concept of the document. The document was written as a single version, and the plagiarism of the already adopted Declaration of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on the condemnation of communist crimes committed in the world over a long period of time. It must be said that the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has since the first days of the fall of communism and since the opening of archives, above all, of the former Soviet Union that have brought the panorama of crime closer to researchers, historians and others, started working systematically and tried to address the issue of condemnation of these crimes, not only for pedagogical reasons, but for some kind of reconciliation with the past. And in that sense, it is a real shame that there are not a few people in this House today who could talk about it from a theoretical and personal perspective. I am personally sorry that there is no Professor Andrija Hebrang, whose personal testimony is of paramount importance to the subject I'm talking about. He unfortunately has a postgraduate class at our university today. I am sorry that there is no Mr. Ivica Racan, whose party is a follower of this totalitarian communist doctrine, because I have the impression that colleagues are not ready to face the terrible crimes committed in the area of the former Croatia and the general perception of these crimes is more or less symbolic for today's crossroads and Bleiburg, although in every practically village, every city has been conducted revolutionary terror on the principles and according to the instructions of the short course of the CAP there in the early days and weeks of May 45. Last year I attended a seminar in Dubrovnik dedicated to Daxie. That's where I'm going to quote only a small part to explain the technology of this terror. The technology of terror was doctrinally undisputed, it was necessary to eradicate all members of the failed bourgeois order, so it was necessary to eradicate the clergy, teachers, teachers, especially towers, journalists, sea captains, people who spoke foreign languages and in every smaller or larger city was exhausted in these short periods wherever five, somewhere 15 on Daxi 20 and some people, and therefore it is very necessary to distinguish communism in different forms and appearances, for example, I was in Burma in my time, where communism used Buddhist infrastructure even temples to carry out terrifying crimes. So the forms of Communism as one generic concept are diverse, so the maoistic, stalinistic, Leninist, titoistic, semi-potical, catrobe, whatever you want, and that's why these modals are very different. As far as the historic price arising from this terrifying terror is concerned, it is mentioned in the explanation of the adoption of the Declaration of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and it is derived from the book "Black Book of Communism" and I will read it here only in this first address, which is the data that you have rough, I know that you know all this but it is good to remember not to make some statistical comparatives but to know what figures it is. Wait a minute, I made a note, it's in this one. What's important is that there are only 20 lines dedicated to the former Yugoslavia in that Black Book, which means 20 million people were killed in the Soviet Union, in China, 60 million people, in Vietnam, millions of people, in North Korea, 2 million people, in Cambodia 2 million, in Eastern Europe, in Latin America, 150 million, in Africa, and 700, in Afghanistan million and 500, in the area of the former Yugoslavia in different periods, is said to have been killed by about a million people. But I think it's an exaggeration. It is therefore necessary to distinguish strictly communism, antifascism and Partizan movement, and the pluralism of the Partizan movement is huge from Istrian partisans who have returned the motherland to territories that have been unfairly Ustasha agreements with fascist Italy, donated to Mussolinia and Fascist Italy to various other segments of that movement that had different dimensions. And finally something about the text itself. I said it was a kind of plagiarism, but that is also the advantage of the text, because I hope that most MPs, especially those already well informed of the Council of Europe's declaration, will support this text which has very few elements of originality. I will read only a few points, and later my colleague Pero Kovacevic and I will report back to the word if necessary. Totalitarian communist regimes that ruled in Central and Eastern Europe in the last century, which are still in power in several countries of the world, were without exception marked by mass violations of human rights. Secondly, human rights violations differed depending on culture, country and historical period and included individual and joint murders, executions, death in concentration camps, starvation, deportation, torture forced labour and other forms of mass physical and psychological terror, persecution on ethnic and religious bases, injury to conscience, thought and expression, freedom of the press and also lack of political pluralism. The crimes of communism were committed and justified on behalf of the theory in the class struggle of the principle of proletariat dictatorship, the interpretation of both principles has legalized the elimination of people who are considered dangerous to build a new society and as such enemies of the totalitarian communist regime. As a rule, the victims were citizens of the country in every country. This was especially the case in the Soviet Union where the number of victims far surpassed the victims in other countries, there should be added except in China, and you will see, besides I would not like to read, I will return to the Daxa case and to the recent handsome controversy between counterparts Jurjevic and Prime Minister Ivo Sanader regarding Mr Jurjevic's role in the repression of Daxa where 6-7 priests were killed, some sea captains, teachers, journalists, etc. Speaking about this, Ivo Sanader probably thought of a familiar letter written by Ante Jurjevic Baja on the occasion of a special task with Visa in Dubrovnik to address the problem of extermination of the civil world there. As far as it's concerned, it's a quote from people's enemies, so far they've been equipped here, about 600. Among them are eight priests, or friars. After the shooting, we announced it with a poster, but until now not everything, only tomorrow comes out one part of the public, and we signed a court of command because we didn't have another, and this is what you and your opinion, anyway, had to be killed. So you see means that they committed themselves in time and in the name of communism had a strict moralization and finally, I will end up, about the similarities between Nazi crimes on their mass-psychological structure. Courts after World War II, international courts with the greatest right and justification have condemned the worst crimes in the 20th century, in parallel to the crimes of communism, however, for many reasons this has not been done in relation to communist crimes. The basic assumption of these crimes is the complete validation of human beings. It means you can get someone to kill their neighbor, and in the Soviet Union, it's been killing or betraying members of their own family on famous monster processes people have been praying on their own on their knees to liquidate them as the greatest human scum. They had to, as it says in this short Kurdish CAPB, obtain the legitimacy of total nothingness. And that's why they're said to be all the scum of the human race, that they're belladordian rocks, that they're human nakaradas, that they're murderers, that they're fascist lacqueres. So that was one atmosphere that preceded mass psychology of terror. And in that sense, dear colleagues and colleagues, I think that the gesture of this House of the High is in the wake of the general intensities of the Council of Europe's Parliamentary Assembly, that in some way a positive burial of history, that one of these declarations is adopted, and that in some ways the future is more seriously thought about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66036	Thank you. 3 correcting incorrect allegations. The first is Honorable Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66037	I am correcting the inaccuracy of my fellow Letica, which is a declaration that could go through its contents, by its disastrously poor reasoning and by petty political substituting entirely questioned as a legitimate proposal. So, I am not behind this, correcting the allegations, correcting the allegations of the followers and followers of Ivica Racan's party when it comes to the Communist party of Croatia and the Union of Communists of Croatia. Because by the same logic that Ivica Racan should apologize here, he could, for example, have done so, and fellow Letica, who was also a member of the party he was invited to. What am I correcting? The Union of Communists of Croatia, i.e. the SDP, when speaking in its historical declaration about the succession or followers precisely declares which part of the history he follows. Following the anti-fascist and anti-stallistic tradition of the Alliance of Communists, follows the positive role that the party played in national and social emancipation...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66038	All right, please conclude, 'cause you'll be in the other part. Dear representative Ljubica Brdarić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66039	I am correcting my colleague Letica's incorrect claim that Ivica Racan did not face the crimes committed, which is incorrect from what counterpart Vidovic has already said. There's a 90-year declaration in which Ivica Racan and SDP are being fenced against the crimes committed and they did it 15 years before fellow Letica, that's something that we've long distanced ourselves from, condemned and said our position otherwise in the crimes committed on behalf of this or that, whatever.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66040	And distinguished representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66041	Thank you, Mr. President. A fellow Letica presented one information that was not correct, and he said that a little more than 20 people had been liquidated on Daxie, and that was simply not true. Unfortunately, over 40 people were liquidated, 45, what is known, but... No, on Dax himself, I'm talking about Daxie himself. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Over 40 people, there is now mentioning the mark and another information is incorrect. True, Ante Juric Baje wrote exactly, "Anyhow, kill must be done, that's for sure," but it wasn't about 6 people, it was about 60 people. Well, for the sake of historical accuracy, I'm just correcting that information. There is a letter stored in Split, which is exactly which place and which number.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66042	Yeah. The Continuing Proposer will be an addition from the Proposer, in an explanation or not now? Not now, okay. I'm opening a debate. IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66043	Honorable President, esteemed gentlemen MPs. Yeah, it's 2006, I even think today to discuss one of these declarations doesn't make sense. If we'd done it in 90 or 91 I think everything would have been different. Finally, what to say for the Council of Europe which adopts this resolution in 2006 and down to the unemployed pop,... Where does a totalitarian regime exist in Europe today? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All regimes in Europe, as far as I know, are elected and replaced in the elections and there is no one who will then welcome the legitimacy of fair elections. Now look at Serbia, Montenegro. Liberals would say "disolution." So, of course, after the referendum that was carried out in accordance with the law, the outcome of the referendum would also have to be recognised. Where in Europe and Eastern Europe today, the exception may be Belarus, there are countries that are not members of the Council of Europe? Who today in the name of any ideology would be willing to commit any crime? Who's reasonable doesn't condemn any crime? Who could justify some crime from our not so long ago. Finally, just recently Napolitano, an oscommunist became Italian president, he always advocated dialogue with the Democrats as well as on the other hand, Morro with post-Communists, who at the end of the '70s and paid dearly. And finally, just Papa Benedict XVI, the German was either the first or the first to congratulate Rome or the Vatican Napolitan. This Declaration by my court would really make sense if you were to condemn Mr Letica, Pero Kovacevic, etc., and Fascism and Ustasity in Croatia once again, to condemn the crimes that some individuals committed in the early 1990s in the war on behalf of whom. In the name of the people, they shouldn't have. And if we were to reconsider maybe some social deformities from the transformation and beyond. I agree once, just from this pay phone I said that every innocent victim has to be rehabilitated, every innocent victim has to be mourned and Christianly buried. And I once said that the pit couldn't be a tomb in any way. But you have to be honest and say what it's been like to do. I can't say I accept the thesis of Monsignor Frost, the Zagreb Assistant Bishop recently spoken at Bleiburg that everyone literally, this is how I paraphrase him who was there, were innocent, he did it paraphrasing that sentence of Pontius Pilate when he said I don't see it, he meant Jesus the crumb of guilt, "and you" addressing the council and then you know what followed. True, many there were innocents like Jesus, but many were guilty of not being able to be there. And finally, why is there in Bleiburg, and every year it happens around 15.5. no one asks why all those people who were there followed Pavelic in Austria, why they did not rise up against Pavelic when they knew about the camps, the war, all the sufferings that the regime had committed on the ground of Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc., why they had finally fought 7.8 days after the capitulation of Germany and so on and why, once again, they did not ask themselves and those questions so that the truth would not be falsified. How is it possible, on the other hand, that the highest or highest state officials speak at a gathering where the storms of black curtains and where people appear in black uniforms? I said, once again I will repeat the pit is not a tomb and everyone innocent must be rehabilitated. It's clear that Communism, we're aware of it, has also committed violent crimes. They did some good things on the other hand. Croatian anti-fascists led by the communist party and Tito Croatia have sided with the winners. That is exactly what allowed Croatia to gain state status as the Federative Republic of the 1990s. Clearly it wasn't the only time, it was supposed to win the war, it was supposed to have the courage to go to the referendum, I shouldn't know that some big things happened in our environment since the collapse of the Soviet Union, the fall of the Berlin Wall, the disintegration of the multinational Czech Republic, Slovakia, etc., etc. And that's why it needs to be objective. Every victim needs to be rehabilitated, and let's not say that I don't feel the same pain that happened in Istria after the war when those premises left 140 thousand people with Rijeka, Zadar, Split, etc. About 186,000 people about Gerjavić. Two-thirds were Italians, one-third were Slavs, Croats, or Slovenians. We condemn injustice, but we don't return property. Clearly, this cannot happen, because both Italy and Croatia are bound by international agreements that have power over the law and they must be respected, but with 5 thousand 236 persons who Mr Letica knows very well that are not covered by international contracts. Of course, the exodus after the war was blamed by Italian propaganda, but they blamed the Catholic Church, because when the bishops of the Italians and all the Italian priests literally left Istria, Rijeka, Zadar, they pulled along and... The population, although there were other reasons that led to such a massive exodus that had reversed the spiritual spaces. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what to say. For example, this declaration by the Council of Europe in one part makes a destination between certain communist parties that it considers to have contributed to the democratisation of its own countries. Point 4 of this Resolution 1481, not to quote everything now. Tito's general gentlemen were Tudjman, and his role in Belgrade after the war probably wasn't just the chairmanship of the football club, pardoning this football club "Partizan". Tito's partisans integrated Istria, Rijeka, Zadar, Međimurje, a third of Slovenia into the territorial corps of Croatia, i.e. Slovenia. Tito's regime wasn't just... The staff has already turned one of the leftover countries into such an industrial land, where, in spite of the war and everything else, we have not yet reached industrial production since '89, Tito's regime has built some 400 thousand apartments in Croatia that many of you here could have bought in '91. with 7, 8 or 9 thousand marks, and then for 10 years, sell them for 150, 200 or 300 thousand euros. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Those are the ones on the left and on the right, and now I'm defending Tito, and none of mine got one. An apartment or a stock, either from longer, or from a wider family. So what if we didn't know, we weren't in it. True, many ended up on the naked island. For example. Jakovcic's father even twice after he passed Dachau before. The grandfather of Axel Lutenberger was the mayor of Dubrovnik, and he died in Daxie, and the Dubrovnikers know it. Since the Iris Vrus was the owner of that house, also a member of the IDS where Tudjman, Tudjman's family lives today, etc. It's clear that it's a mortgage of that communist system, which is then, let's say... Closed to thousands of people, from the President of the Parliament further, but I doubt that after II. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know about World War II. I don't know how you might have established that regime so that no one else would have been happy or continued a fraternal war or civil war, as much as you prefer, everyone against everyone, if it weren't for Tito who, regardless of the dark side, wasn't a Stalinist because he was also raised against Stalin, and not a fascist because he was raised against Mussolini and this Hitler. It is also clear that in these constant cleaners many have lost their heads from Mr. Hebrang's father to many known and unknown. You, Mr. Letica, are wondering why the lustration of the '90s hasn't been performed. A year. You were then the first Tudjman advisor, or as the head of the cabinet or head of the office says, so first hand, you can tell us firsthand why the communists, for example under quotes, would it be crazy for me not to "remove" from public life from courts to secret police, from prison administrators to part of the media, etc. Why? Maybe because half of them immediately changed their uniform and ended up in HDZ. Some then IDS, which I know where everything, some in HSP, etc. Perhaps because there was some reconciliation, perhaps because in one small Croatia everyone knew everything about everyone, perhaps because many who had come to power before that worked for the secret services of ex Yugoslavia either in Croatia or for immigration, and perhaps because then the lustration didn't make sense, as it doesn't make much sense either. There's no doubt about it for me. Whoever killed people in the country or abroad should, if the work is not clearly out of date, have to answer as it is now being held in Germany for the murder of this Djurekovic who allegedly raised something from the INA but I wonder if it should not have been done in Croatia in 90 or 91, as the conversion should also be sanctioned in 2000 and not promising to do something now in 2007 or 2008. What we're getting on the other side of this declaration, I really don't know. People who were in prison, I said, from the President of the Parliament, I don't know Mr. Happy, Budisha, Chicka, Perice, Parage they got not know maybe some satisfaction, some got a pension, some got some shares of those fees but clearly years those people's youth couldn't be paid back. Some of them got 90th and a bullet like one of the Paraquis and I don't want to keep counting. Communism has fallen apart, the court of time has not passed and condemned it today or not something that can't be returned is a little bit ridiculous for me when we know that Croatia breathed in the 1970s, 1980s and 1950s and what I know in the 1990s. The crime, however, is something else. He should be clearly punished, convicted, said the victim should be rehabilitated, but it should be carried out in a concrete and above all fair way, not by means of perhaps such a pamphlet. I'm just not smart to support this or not. Support because crime should be condemned absolutely for a hundred times, yes, but not to support it because I think it's kind of politics. If you don't support someone, they'll tell you you're a communist. One of the few who may not have been in the game is me, not Dorotea or Walter Poirot from the IDS. ... Neither are you, good for you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And if you support it and you know that period isn't worth it fairly, you're also not fair to yourself or to history or to the truth. If you don't support it, you're making an injustice a clear sacrifice, if you support it, you know that there are no victims of any other regimes, structures, systems, etc. Perhaps it would be best if this went once more into another reading and before we might respond to each other like this in the face of who he was, who wasn't a member of the party, who was what he achieved at the time of communism, what he got from that communist structure, which of that structure they got I don't know his brothers, sisters, etc. All in all, perhaps the most compromising solution not to throw all this away would be to go nice to another reading, so who's nice, so who's wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66044	Thank you. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. First respected representative Marko Turic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66045	Your Honor, Mr. President, a corrected incorrect allegation. Representative Cain said in his statement that it was, that now it was so late, that it was something earlier could be accepted or justified, etc. That thesis is dangerous, wrong and incorrect here to say it. And here's why. A state which in peace does not punish the war crimes of its citizens is, in fact, very determined and consciously side by side of just such a crime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66046	Dear Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go, second amendment!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66047	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Cain said Tito wasn't a Stalinist. That's not true, Mr. Caine. He was also a Stalinist until 48th and carried out the Stalinist methods until 48th and after 48th, but he was a declared Stalinist until 48th.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66048	And respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66049	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's what my colleague Cain says about me. There's no doubt that every criminal should be punished. So now I'm asking a question at the gatherings of surviving Partisans where Mr. Cain loves to sing and dance with them whether he's asking himself which one of them is a criminal because the crimes committed after 41st must have been one of those crimes. Here's an example, after 45, more people were beaten in Samobor than were killed during the war. And in other parts, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66050	Proposer, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66051	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! I just wanted to make a motion to direct the debate. Be careful, let us be aware and realistic, historical facts are historical facts and no one can challenge or disprove them. In the period 45 to 90, and I especially think of 45 in Croatia, 200 thousand people were killed in one way or another. They were killed both on Bleiburg and on the crossroad and on other various sites. And here in the motion for a resolution, we're not talking about Tito or anyone else, we're talking about these people who were killed even though we can't have double morals right now. The innocent victim is an innocent victim. The man who was killed was killed whether he was killed in Jasenovac, whether he was killed in Bleiburg or killed today. He's innocent. So that's what we stick to. You will always say that something should be done by Europe. So now we have concrete situations, the two resolutions of the Parliament of the Council of Europe, which we call on in our motion for a resolution, which we point out and I don't know what bothers you about this part of the resolution that goes with a clear tone to point out what happened. As far as the illustration itself is concerned, the Croatian Justice Party has given the HSP Club twice in the procedure of the law to implement the illustration. It has not been implemented and probably it is already too late but you must be aware that other countries in transition have carried out an illustration. We have the best example of Slovakia, where the current President of Slovakia, according to this law, was shut down for 15 years from political life, today is the President of Slovakia. So many things we didn't do in Croatia when it was time. I can tell you about now and Bleiburg and all this. I got a lot of letters from me and my colleagues at the Croatian Party Club of Rights where people talk about the facts that happened in Lepoglava. Here's a letter from Mr. Peter Babic who seven, eight times writes what happened while he was in the casamat so-called. A detention centre in Lepoglav where, during his time, 23 Croats were killed there because they did not support the regime that then came to power means 1945. And he describes how and how they were executed, in a cruel way. And it describes cases where people, exactly what Slaven was saying to save themselves, were jumping off the roof, yes, no, because they couldn't take it anymore. He says all the cases that young Panic was strangled in the dungeon. So all one case of this 23 he writes about, writes a man with trembling hands and says at least read it in the Croatian Parliament. Seven times I wrote to the peaceful, 1991 bodies in Croatia, no one did anything. There's all the concrete data. Since I referred this to Mr. Bajic as the attorney general, I will not read any further. Then you have another situation about Bleburg, for example. That's, I'm not going to read you a name where a man says teaching is the case of a man who's on Bleiburg or above all, first he's tired of 150 fritars on Shiroki Brijeg, and then on Bleiburg. He's got his name and name here. I won't read it. Lives today in Zagreb in Jabukovac. So there's a lot of these situations because people who are offered and now this marking of Bleiburg are writing because they're hoping that someone will finally get the strength and tell those who are supposed to do this, means the State's Attorney's Office, the Internal Affairs Department, that today there are people who are guilty of crimes. Because they killed innocent children, killed innocent civilians or killed members of another army who surrendered without trial and without anything else. It's a crime. We can talk like this, we can talk like that, but crime is a crime. And therefore I have nothing in this resolution of the Croatian Party of Rights Club and Mr. Professor of Dr. Slaven Letica, anything that may bother you here. Neither are we talking about Stalin here, nor are we talking about Tito. We are talking about the period 1945 to 1990, what was happening in Croatia? Normally, this form of communism in Croatia was not the same as it was during Stalin. Normally it wasn't the same as it was during Mao's Tung in China or in Burma and in other parts. But the crimes seemed to be. I mean, there's no need to, I still have 20 letters in my bag. When people bring out what they've been through and how they've been through. And what was the situation? No trial, no anything else. They were brutally killed and they don't even know where their grave is today? And that's what people write, people who, look at one number of letters and still are anonymous. People are afraid that anyone will say that and that anything in that section will start. Well, at least we get the strength without politics. There's no need to discuss politics here. This is about historical facts, historical facts that cannot be changed because of the meaning of the future of this country. Everything that has been in history or in one way or another that has been negative should remain behind us but we need to condemn all such acts, all such acts so as not to let God repeat himself in the present, in the future or anywhere. I therefore appeal on behalf of the Croatian Party Club of Rights, or we propose that we stick to this part, and so history is history. We have resolutions from the Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Europe. Then what's bothering you? So we are nothing but what Europe has brought. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66052	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66053	Oh, here we go. I'm sure it had to be implemented in 1990, but it was supposed to be 2000. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, it is also a mistake not to do so, perhaps in 1990 and 2000. But I want to look back on a false assumption. Mr. Pero Kovacevic says: "From 1945 to 1990 200 thousand were killed," so he said, "200, 90,000 people, 90,000 Croats," he said. Okay, so that's already one little breakthrough compared to what you're saying, how much did you say? 200 or? And at least 200 grand. [[I said at least 200 grand.]] Well, I've heard. So don't throw those numbers away. It's on the trail of those 700 thousand killed in Jasenovac. Let's be realistic. Let's have someone investigate it once or otherwise listen to the late Gerjavic, who has demystified the victims of Jasenovac, the victims of the millions and 700 thousand killed during the NOR. The Italian propaganda around the exodus from Istria, and, of course, he fairly and correctly evaluated the victims of the crossroad. As far as the crime is concerned, there's a crime to be punished. Clearly, if it did not appear obsolete because the pit cannot be a tomb in any way and any innocent God dear should be rehabilitated, he should be mourned, he should be buried Christianly.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66054	The club of representatives of the CNS respected representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66055	Thank you, Mr. President. In any case, the Croatian People's Party would support this if there were no part of it and I'll talk about it later. Why would they support it? Croatia is a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe together with all other 45 states. Our members participated actively in the adoption of this Resolution. 1481, January 25th and brought it in. And of course this resolution, which is the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, binds us. If we adopted her there, she's binding us. There was another recommendation that wasn't adopted. The session also recommended that governments of all Member States of the Council of Europe accept a similar declaration. This is what we do today and conduct investigations into individuals who have committed crimes in totalitarian regimes. That recommendation didn't get most of it. Some voted against it. And you know who voted against it? Mostly the countries of the former eastern bloc that were part of the communist system. And they, say, Russia, Belarus and in turn they were against it. As a result, the question arises, if this has been brought forward, by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, why didn't the government come before the Parliament? Why didn't the government come with a declaration but Mr. Letica had to come with a declaration? I believe it was the government's obligation. If we are a member, and we are a member, one of 46, the government should have come before the Parliament in any case to bring a declaration of this. And then back to the question of this recommendation that hasn't been adopted. We have been trying for 15 years in this war to prove, to individualize guilt, and to remove some shared responsibility. Well, has anyone stopped us from processing those who committed war crimes in the last 15 years? War crime doesn't get old. Why did our, why the police, the investigative authorities, why didn't the judiciary work? Why weren't those who stood on the pits and killed processed? They were supposed to be. We've had time for 15 years. Now we're wondering if it's necessary or not. You should've done it already. We're already late. Why won't we vote for this resolution? Mr. Letica himself said that she's somewhat plagiarized, so it's prescribed what's in the resolution. But there's one thing that I think isn't just overwritten, it's also written. Mr. Letica is trying to solve the lustration issue with this declaration. A lustration can be solved by law. HSP proposed law. And lustration could and must be resolved by law, not by declaration. And that part is, that's this 14th point that's been added and that's about exactly the lustration question with which point, since nothing is defined by any level that goes to, whether it goes to professors who were in the Union of Communists, whether it goes, I don't know how far. There's a question to what level and who everything. If only the first part listed in point 14 is, all those who will be prosecuted and prosecuted are likely, if convicted will certainly not work in public services anymore. The question is, what level does lustration go to? That's not said here. However, there is also a question of what about those penitent ones. What about those who served the same communist regime for a number of years, especially at the time when it was the worst, when the most crimes were committed? And then at one point they repented. And then, at one point, they became Democrats. And then, at one point, they got baptized among other things. What about those? And the same ones who weren't in the party that we went to church were standing in front of the church counting how many of us we were going, why we were going, when we were going, how we were going. So they could probably go somewhere else and tell us who's going to church. What about those? And there are many who repent. There are also in us who have always been opposed to this regime. But we're not witnesses. I'm not a witness to these crimes. What about those who witnessed those crimes? Why don't they report those crimes? Why don't you clean up with that already? How long are we gonna wait? For the next 100 years? There won't be any more people to whom that applies. And if there wasn't this part that was cut in this declaration, which was changed from this declaration, the HNS would have voted anyway. This way we can't vote for this because there's a lustration on the little door. And the lustration I repeat can only be part of a special law. Because it needs to be defined who it refers to and what level it refers to. It's the only way it can be. Through this declaration when compared to that declaration, it can't possibly go through.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66056	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Anton Perusko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66057	So I'm correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague Kapraljevic actually partially correct when he was talking about penitents who were before the '90s. Counting those who don't go to church. It's only partially true. They were the same after the '90s, they were the ones who went to church, they were the same after '90s. Counting those who don't go to church. So I'm correcting that assumption because it's not entirely accurate. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66058	Thank you. Proposer, respected representative of Slaven Letica. So one of them was counting the ones that were counting. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66059	Well, I think Mr. President's atmosphere is still positive and I'm willing to give up that element to get HNS support. He wasn't in my proposal. But since it's an HSP proposal, it's a very important thing to them. I'm on, but we're people, we'll make a deal. It is therefore recommended that it be adopted in this final text instead. I can, however, agree to the idea of going to another reading, to adopt part of the draft recommendations that are not harmonised, adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. As for the objection that the government has not suggested anything, I think it is an invalid objection. The government has serious business. I am a member of the Croatian delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. At that week I had a lecture and I wasn't, I had a moral obligation to my colleagues who were there and actively participated in the debate to make that little effort. In that sense, I think it is very important for this nation's emotional health to adopt such a declaration. And since I took my word, I'd like to introduce you to something that's very well known. It's one of the many crimes that was committed in relation to members of the mostly Franciscan order. It's a 21-killed or a god's word or a chaplain. Something was there a little bit of catechet. And there's the name and name of the man who, uh, liquidated those people. It is very interesting where these people are pointing out to us people in letters that also refer to colleagues Kovacevic and me. Most of the time, in Jabukovac, in Tuškanc, in Pantovac, it means that they have often liquidated these people to reach their villas, their houses, their elite locations. Thus, it must not be about anything that would be an interstellar outwitting. It is a civil European standard which is in some way a moral obligation of this House, because to adopt such Croatian occasions as adjusted declaration, I think it is absolutely necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66060	Thank you. SDP club, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66061	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. For the SDP club, it is not disputed to evaluate and condemn the dark sides of Croatian history, especially historical events and personalities of the 20th century. We did it 15.5 years ago at our second convention held on 3.11.1990 by passing a historical declaration. We did so so that we could be the followers of the positive legacy of the Croatian communist movement, such as the resistance of the two strongest totalitarian ideologys and movements of the 20th century, fascism, Nazism and Stalinism. Croatia's legacy of anti-fascism today ranks in modern democratic countries of the world. I'd like to read a few passages from our historical declaration to see what the SDP did in the fall of 1990. The negative balance of 45-year-old KPH government of SKH stemmed from a single-party monopoly and never until the end of the dominant Bolshevik structure, where volunteerism and the tendency to solve social problems and continuing tendencies by administrative and violent methods to seek a solution to the national issue by strengthening Yugoslav integration, underestimating national affirmation and foreign state control of the economy, stifling market law by preventing entrepreneurship and countering any private initiative in the economy. Political volunteerism and the application of uncontrolled violence were during a war and wartime period when it was somewhat understood because of special circumstances, but also later when political opportunities were stabilised and this way of ruling could not be justified. This includes illegal executions and other repressions towards war-beating military and political opponents, hostile relations with Catholic and other churches and sectarian relations with the believers in general. Inside the party political accounts, which is the most drastic example of Andrija Hebrang's case. Violent collectiveisation of villages and repressive measures in connection with forced buy-in, one-sided negative attitude towards Croatian emigration, rough calculations, excommunications, persecution and closure of people of different political beliefs, especially those who have more pronouncedly represented the national position. Verbal litigation and political action trials that are not otherwise incriminate in democratic societies. The unambiguous adoption of the 71st event on nationalism with the denial of reform democratic and federalist aspects of the then leadership policy and political and criminal persecution of members of the so-called ... The great political damage in recent years has been done by the so-called so-called. Croatian silence towards the obvious hegemonistic aspirations of large Serb circles. This is why the SDP has firmly and clearly distanced itself from such political and economic practices because it considers it incompatible with its fundamental commitment to political democracy and market economy. The SDP believes it is necessary to rehabilitate innocent convicted persons in political processes and recognise their right to moral and material compensation. The SDP sees as a legal successor of the KPKH as its moral and political duty to publicly apologize to all those who, for political reasons, have been wronged, done harm or injured by the influence of authorities in the post-war period. The SDP will advocate public respect for everything that is positive in our political heritage as well as for the judgment of certain events and personalities in the historical context. So in the SDP, we estimate that our historical declaration is still very current today and that it is almost not needed to be changed in any segment. We would be pleased to have a few members of the communist, the alliance of communists who stayed in the SDP with us to join the majority that was then outside of the SDP. Condemning communist crimes, but also crimes committed by so-called The independent state of Croatia is not questionable for us as the SDP is at least 15 years late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66062	Thank you. For the HDZ club, respected representative and vice president Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66063	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I would ask myself and everyone first question - what is the intention of the Declaration of the Council of Europe? There is no fee for the Council of Europe Declaration to list the names of individuals, to measure how many totalitarian systems have committed crimes, and as the declaration in the totalitarian communist system of Central and Eastern Europe then the declaration drew the attention of the world, the modern world to what has been happening in these systems for decades. The list of individuals here that he didn't do this, that he didn't do it has nothing to do with the intentions of the Council of Europe Declaration. Emphasis that Napolitan President of the Republic of Italy is a former communist, we have all heard and seen, we know and remember some Napolitan. Well, Napolitano didn't commit any war crimes. Which is why you put him in the context of even discussing this, as well as putting the edge of the Racans who also didn't commit any war crimes. So it's against, it's not, it's counterproductive to mention the name of anyone, binding and labeling or alluding to something because actually in, there's a mission actually to camouflage this whole thing. They're taking us to the back track. So the question arises, he says, they fought six days after Germany's capitulation, and I would ask a question if World War II had already ended as they could have killed themselves after 9.5.45 when there are laws that prohibit the killing of prisoners. So our problem is, our problem here today is to admit some things. To admit some things regardless of whether we are currently fit and whether we are followers of this or that ideology and whether and to what extent we have fenced ourselves, we have condemned it or in any other way expressed our clear political position on the events we are discussing. I'm gonna say something here and ask myself and you a question. Is it courage, is it positive and to what extent is it positive and is it a real, real, political step, a courageous political step, a declaration that Mrs. Zgrebec just partially quoted when SDP came out with your Declaration 15 years ago? Whether you agree or disagree, I think it was a brave and good step back then, a confrontation. Whether or not we can discuss it enough. But if he was brave and very encouraging for the future of Croatia and what was expected of us in the Homeland War, there is no doubt about me. As well as the fact that President Tudjman, whom we can now criticise whether he should have carried out the illustration or not, was at the level of his historical and political responsibility in the situation when Croatia was threatened by ruthless war, persecution, destruction, possession of territory and the like, when President Tudjman called on Croatian citizens, not only Croatians, not ideologies, but people. And that's why, among other things, we didn't have a fifth column in our Homeland War. For the first time probably in the recent history of the Croatian people. For together, the sons and Ustashas and the partisans and the natives and other members fought together for the defense of the homeland, because there were others, and therefore, among other things, we won the Homeland War. The only question here is whether we are matured time to condemn all the crimes of totalitarian Fascism systems, communism. However, some expressions refer to Bolvism, which is a narrow term, and we can't attribute all crimes to that so-called. Stalinism. Because someone in the name of ideology was counting, killing, closing and persecuting people. That's the problem. In the name of ideology that was done. This is where some people were mentioned, especially in Mr. Cain's debate, from Father Jakovcic and the like, and I'll say the same. You see, I was in a more favourable situation, conditionally speaking, or because my father in Partizans died in the first half of 43rd, so he didn't welcome 45th when he could be in the car of those we're talking about right now. I've been so much less burdened with some things. Who knows how I'd behave and how some of my statements or opinions would have been if it had happened two, three years later. That's what I'm trying to say, that many or most of us are burdened with personal classifications along with this or that, so we're trying to defend something that's indefensible. In doing so, we want to or try not to see the log in our own eyes, but we will see every little thing in others. That's how much it's wrong. So whether it's past time, whether we have politically had sufficient historical distances, whether we have enough political courage to condemn without delay all crimes in the name of any totalitarianism or communist totalitarianism. ... Yeah, some don't need a distance. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] For some of the consequences of these crimes are still visible and today they feel, but we as the Croatian Parliament in the 21st century should without delay condemn all the crimes committed in the name of totalitarian systems in our country or anywhere else, where Croatian or Croatian citizens participated and thus make their contribution to the Declaration of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe that talked about it. Let’s not list the details. Although the details are a matter of research, we know which research, either in criminal proceedings or in the historical sequence of events, so the research is done over a long period of time. But when we politically judge, we must give up subjectivism, our frustrations from the past or our families and bring about the right attitude, and that is the condemnation of all totalitarianism and crimes that are actually in the name of the Tito totalitarian system committed and thus the communist system. It's not a courtship, let's not be specific, so then, they'll try to get as much sympathy as possible for some individual attitude on some individual issue. That's not the problem. Do it to me today or not or tomorrow will come the time when we will be ready and able to do it. I therefore propose on behalf of the HDZ Club that this proposal of the Declaration be completed, that a maximum political consensus be reached on whether or not it will go into another reading or in some other way, or that the Proposer accepts this proposal and that we take seriously one declaration which, without exception, condemns all crimes in the name of ideology and, in this case, the communist system which has done and has been a long number of years and that in such a way, we do not cooperate with individuals, especially not on followers, because it would be unacceptable and offensive for me to now be accused of SDP as successor of communist ideology when it is, in such a way, expressed ideologies which has made it clear to me that 15 years ago, I do not know whether it is sufficient, whether it will satisfy everyone's taste, but it was certainly a step and the courage to say in the name of the SDP in which has previously been called. So let's do one effort without subjectivism, without our cheerleading or these or those views or plays that we had previously had to make responsible for such a declaration and thus not close the book because the crimes never go out of date, so we remain the part of the process of any State Attorney's office, courts, etc., but we bring a political stance that will also correspond to the SDP declaration 15 years ago and to the Tudjman's policy... Croatia, not on ideological grounds, but on the grounds of insurance, and in the Homeland War we fought this independent country and defended it thanks to the fact that it invited everyone in the interest of their country, its future, freedom, independence, we all stand in its defense. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It doesn't mean reconciliation with crimes, it means only condemnation, and let each other do his job. Let the judiciary do, let the State's Attorney's Office do, let the historians do, and we will in this way make and certainly make an effective contribution to what was intended when this Declaration was adopted in the Council of Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66064	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Ivo Lončar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66065	Mr. President, the speech of the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament should be fully corrected because it is completely incorrect, and it is also a falsification of history, and I will only look back on what is equally incorrect that we cannot talk about individuals and rely on individuals. You, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, will later see who these individuals were in my speech and what terrorist and criminal orders they issued, how they persecuted and killed innocent people. That's what it's all about, and if any party today, otherwise, the followers of communism and communists, has given up, the best testimony is that the party's boss and present-day head of the party boasted to another Tito, and he's the key to everything because he's a criminal against criminals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66066	Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66067	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, we accept this proposal by Mr. Luke Bebić on behalf of the HDZ Club that we can all get the strength and together determine the text of this Declaration and bring it in. We think it's our obligation to all those who are at this time mean that totalitarian system of '45. '90s. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So this isn't about names, and normally I'm talking about names, every name I get where it shows that I'm sending a crime to a state attorney, so we're going to see what he's going to do and what cases he's going to do. Therefore, I also call on the SDP club, it is precisely necessary to welcome that historic declaration of '92. years, but let him. ... '90s. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let them now have the strength to sit together and support this Declaration, because I am telling you these are also the resolutions of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. So, you don't have to run away, say openly we'll either support or we won't support it, or we're getting in the way of this, or we're getting in the way of this. Here, we are ready to accept and discuss the proposal of the HNS club, which Mr Kavrljevic said, so you can discuss that point 14 is deleted. The intention was if anyone was convicted, she wasn't meant to be what you thought. Therefore, in all situations, it means to show that the part to condemn what was done during that period, and according to my judgments and estimates, it is a word of about 200 thousand people and most of them were normally injured in that period of '45. years, we know how and how, but I say we don't talk about names, we talk about what we should do here, but we do it for the better of the present and the better of the future. So that's the part, and let the proper ones do their work that they didn't do. The truth was not worked, so the State's Attorney's Office did not exactly do anything in this area from the independence of the Croatian state until today. That's true, and it can't escape any other relevant bodies, not the Ministry of the Interior or any other body, because if people sign their name and last name and tell me, flyer or anyone else that 7.8 times they're talking about the names of those who committed the crime, they killed the children, they killed the women, they threw them in the pits, no one answered. So, and these people are alive and that's exactly what Letica said. Mahoma, if it is about people who live, there are them everywhere, at various addresses in Croatia live on the Monden parts of Zagreb, Pantovčak, Tuškanac, Jabukovac and all other things. I won't say names because I sent all that stuff to a state attorney and whoever wants to meet can come to me and see what names it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66068	Thank you. The HSS Club is a respected representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66069	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! The HSS Club on such a proposal or on this subject that is under discussion today absolutely has its position, has very clear views that were made several years ago in a document entitled "Totalitarianism as a Negation of Humanism and Democracy". That's why I'm going to be and I want to be absolutely accurate in all the statements, so I'm going to try exactly the positions of the HSS that haven't been changed on this subject to show in a way that I want to be convinced that there will also be the position of all the present and all the political parties. A number of discussions have recently been launched in the public showing that everyone cares about pointing out their democratic commitment and determined opposition to all totalitarianisms. But judging by the ease of diphthamation of non-insanes and even more by the fundamental thesis they represent, it becomes clear that there is a huge confusion in many heads with the deposits of dogmatic consciousness so that from these positions they cannot even reach the understanding of the true nature of totalitarianism. Everything remains at the level of political speeches that are not even trying to theoretically objectively explain the content of basic concepts without which it is not possible to examine the ethical values of certain doctrines, neither liberalism, nor socialism, nor communism, nor certain types of social order of democracy, dictatorship and totalitarianism. In this way everything is roughly relativised so that the political-ethical ideals of freedom, equality, solidarity, justice and peacemaking can be found in all doctrines only in fascism and national socialism. It turns out that these are the only criminal ideologies of their being while others eventually become it through their criminal practices, such as bettervism as radical communism. Being on the side of anti-fascism by this understanding is enough to be legitimate enough to belong to anti-totalitarianism. But is that right? The newer history of the 20th century shows that the real nature of totalitarianism has just begun to disintegrate, that we are increasingly and more often surprised by its performances and forms as an illusion of democracy and humanism and in reality is their negation. The very notion of Communism includes different theories of utopia, movements and so on, but it is theoretically linked to Karl Marx and his teaching of history and society as visions of a new communist community that will be realized as a classless society and by the disappearance of class obstacles, the state will die and, according to Marx, Communism is an association of free and equal people. In practice, however, communism seeks to achieve this "holy goal" for the class struggle and dictatorship of proletariats and it all comes down to the brutal and ruthless dictatorship of the communist party. The values of civil society are completely denied and private property is abolished and political and ideological criteria are imposed against which differences between people are not permitted because each individual lives for the good of the community and is subject to it. All means, including terror, are permitted to discipline individuals because the collective order is governed by human rights and freedoms. The most dramatic form of communism is certainly betterviism, Lenin's interpretation of Marx and later Stalinism, and both can be equally classified in the ideology of condensed world evil as fascism. However, even later forms of communism, including the former Yugoslavia, have not far removed from communism and freed the essential features of totalitarianism such as the power of one party and its leaders and systematic psychological and physical terror over political insinuators and the entire people. When it comes to Yugoslav and Croatian communism, it should be said that, at the end of World War II, the best way in the best way of improving the ideology has won for NOB a large number of true patriotism and anti-fascism, promising after the war free elections and parliamentary democracy. All of this, however, quickly ended in orthodox totalitarianism and crimes most over the Croatian people. The HSS has never accepted the Marxist-Internationalist doctrine of communism in any form or fascism of any type because it is the foreign soul of the Croatian people as Dr Juraj Krnjević used to say. The HSS consistently respected the will of the Croatian people and its label, which was repeatedly confirmed by the vast majority when the people could at least express themselves freely. We have advocated Croatia as a country based on democracy of humanity, social justice and equality of all citizens regardless of race, ethnicity and religion, and have been prepared to cooperate with all peoples in order to preserve lasting peace with the equality of all peoples. Our foundations were peaceful and neutral Croatia and against every totalitarianism. The appearance of NDH for HSS was never acceptable because it tied itself to the fascist forces of Germany, Italy by accepting fascist principles of government organisation and political practice with the presence of their military forces. A totalitarian model of the state was established, which only strengthened the anti-fascist mood of the people, which was skillfully used by the Communist Party of Yugoslavia by designing resistance. Thus the anti-fascist movement called the People's Liberation Movement, led by communists, began to develop, although various groups of intellectuals who defended humanism and fundamental democratic values contributed particularly to the spread of anti-fascism. Since the fall of 42, the processes of the inclusion of Croatian peasants and HSS supporters have also progressed and after the arrival of some HSS leaders and half of the 43rd was established the Executive Board of HSS which entered ZAVNOH. But the Partizan HSS was fully subordinated to the communist leadership of NOB and strictly supervised by the communists, so that Kostunica's attempt to act as an independent partner in NOB failed and Kostunica ended up in a prison of only 46. Although they announced the restoration of political parties, the establishment of a special Croatian-Republic peasant party under the KPJU directive even took place. It was soon seen that this was the most common coup and laxity since, after the end of the war in the restored Yugoslavia, the KPJU established a totalitarian one-party system or rather a rigid Bolshevik system that worked until 1948 when the conflict with the Infobiroom occurred. The issue remains an open question to what extent such a fight against fascism was a true anti-fascism, or it only covered up the preparation of elements of its own communist Bolshevik totalitarianism that led the crime. Obviously, then, the HSS according to its being its doctrines is equally critical of fascism, but also of every other totalitarian ideology. Whether she herself is criminal in her foundations or it is gradually becoming when on behalf of her so-called. higher goals introduce criminal practice. The results are the same. The evil of planetary proportions in action. Degradation of man and his freedom, total dehumanization. Radic's teaching with his peace, humanism, freedom and democracy is incompatible with any form of totalitarianism that the members of the HSS consistently showed by putting up with huge sacrifices in the fight against fascism and communism, thus giving their pain to the creation of an independent, democratic and independent Croatian state. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this resume that I have read which is part of the broader debate "Totalitarianism as a negation of humanism and democracy" can serve as a real basis for a declaration that will not be against anyone. Which will be for the Croatian future. Who will declare evil, for good's sake, that it is good. To defend the fundamental principles of freedom, democracy, the rights of a citizen and the rights of a man. Declarations that will rise and rise from what simply should not belong to the future. I think that, in terms of similar thesis that we have discussed and those initiatives that Dr Letica has already launched in this House, and here we need to find a solution that will be on the trail of those principles that HSS has always represented, which have not been against anyone, but have been for the future that Croatia is looking for and certainly belongs to an independent Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66070	Thank you. The HSU Club, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66071	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed promoters, Mr. Letica, colleagues and colleagues. Look, it's true, crime doesn't go out of date, and that's why we need to process all the crimes that happen at any time and anywhere. Unfortunately, I know you didn't think that by bringing in three declarations, we'd solve the problems. This is impossible to resolve in this way, that the Declaration of Antifascism, which we adopted in this House of Commons, will be unanimous, that we will solve all the problems with the declaration that should be brought about the condemnation of the crimes committed during the totalitarian communist order in Croatia in 1945 and 90. Because to solve problems if a crime exists, it needs to be prosecuted. Nor will the declaration of any crimes committed in the Homeland War solve these problems, but you know what we have to do. We must send our men to The Hague. And that's the truth, the truth that we have to live with and what we have to do. Look, first of all, in Croatia, we in the pensioners' party appreciate the proposal and professionalism in the exercise of the duties of parliamentary representatives and public figures. However, we cannot support this declaration in this way, we are not prepared to support it this way because it has come into parliamentary procedure without the government's opinion. We are not prepared to support it because we believe it is necessary to look for the same solutions here, to seek out a versatile political consensus as we have achieved it by adopting it in this High House of the Declaration of the Croatian Parliament on Antifascism and therefore we are not prepared to support this proposal. We believe that primarily the Government should react and so far should have responded and should have submitted a proposal for a declaration before the Croatian Parliament because there is no Europe without such a declaration in the dictionary of ordinary citizens. Or, to be clear, this is one of the conditions for joining us in some way to join the European Convention and I really don't see why the Government of the Republic of Croatia is waiting on this topic not to propose a single declaration. What bothers us is in our opinion the provocations we don't need, even if they're in an explanation. In the section that says "removing the Croatian public", if we have already said a number of crimes in the name of communism, so let's add its worst forms and Bolshevism and Stalinism and the class struggle and the dictatorship of proletariats, but let's stop there. Let's stop there. We don't talk in brotherhood and unity anymore or about the promised bright future because, you know, those who propose it today and one part of those who propose today and swear that it wasn't good were hot advocates of such ideas. Therefore, let us not act hypocritically. Well, let's get that out of the way, even if it's in an explanation. The Croatian Party of Retired would also like to support the conclusion that this Declaration is headed for a second reading, that it is going towards seeking a comprehensive consensus and that the government is making its proposal by emergency procedure. To meet in the second reading and produce one declaration which we will also unanimously adopt in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66072	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66073	Thank you very much. A great Czech writer, undoubtedly a victim of the communist totalitarian system,... On two occasions, the president of the Czech Republic, Vladslav Havel, at the same time and undoubtedly moral authority when he became president and when he probably said with such or similar initiatives "the former communists are still just the current anti-communists". [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That famous sentence by Watslav Havel could also apply to this case. But it can't because in this case there's additional cynicism if not perversions. Namely here are both a burning communist and a fiery anti-communist united in one person. In the person of Dr. Slaven Letica. I was never a member of the Communist Party. And that's why I can talk about this completely openly without feeling real or falsely guilty. I can speak without prejudice. Was the communist system good and just? It's not. Does someone have to apologize to the victims of that system because of his existence? He has to. Who? So above all, the SDP that says to itself that it was created in programme, political, political, that it was created by political, programming and organisational transformation of the Union of Communists of Croatia and that, in this sense, the heritage of the old communist organisation positively and negatively. And did the SDP do that? Yes, it is. He did it 16 years ago. November 3, 1990. He did so in a much more concrete, much clearer, much more explicit manner than is stated in this prescribed declaration by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. What did the SDP say then? Dear Zgrebec has read. I'll just repeat some paragraphs. Why is he apologizing? What does he condemn? Irregular executions and a group of repressions against war-beating military and political opponents. An enemy attitude towards Catholic and other churches. And a sectarian attitude towards the believers at all. Inpartial and political accounts for which is the most drastic example of the case of Andrija Hebrang. Violent collection of villages and repressive measures related to forced ransom. A unilateral negative attitude towards Croatian emigration. Rough reckonings. Excommunications. Persecution and closure of people of different political beliefs especially those who have explicitly represented the national position. Verbal litigation and political action trials that are not otherwise incriminate in democratic societies. The unambiguous implementation of the situation in 1971 of nationalism with the denial of reform, democratic and federalist aspects of the policies of the then leadership and political and criminal persecution of members of the so-called MASPOK. The SDP sees as a legal follower of the KPH SK as its moral and political duty to publicly apologize to all those who, for political reasons, have been wronged, wronged, or injured by acts by authorities in the post-war period. So explicit text, so specific text is not here. That's what the SDP did. Mr. Slaven Letica did not vote for this text. He couldn't have. He couldn't because he got out of SK a year earlier. He came out when it became clear that the SDP would organise and conduct democratic elections and hand over power peacefully. At that time in the SDP, staying in the SDP for Mr Letica no longer made sense because no benefit from membership in that party could he no longer have. The promoter doesn't seem to be convicted of communism. Then you'd have to condemn your own communist past. He's into the degradation of the SDP and that of the current one. And that comes from his public appearance here today at the pay phone when he calls the edge of Racan. The edge of Racan who, along with his party colleagues, wrote, voted and brought this declaration. The SDP is a party, does it make sense to call the SDP today because of the sin of communism? The SDP is today a party that enjoys the support of a significant part of the voter. Mr. Slaven Letica seems no. He went bad in the presidential election. The seat in the parliament won the HSP list in order to immediately step out of the club, declared itself independent, and is now killing 250,000 kuna annually. Why did he step out of the HSP Club? Because he doesn't agree with HSP? Agreed. They're proposing a declaration together. There's no disagreement. That the Proposer Mr. Slaven Letica, who holds that such a declaration is necessary for moral reasons, is, above all, proposing today a declaration of condemnation of political corruption. And that as an extreme political immorality condemns such a mockery of democracy in which a club is left on whose list you are chosen just to be able to incriminate 250,000 kunas a year, I would respect Mr. Letica. But such a declaration of condemnation of incasing 250,000 kuna a year Mr. Letica will probably suggest or advocate that it be passed when he is no longer a representative. As the condemnation of communism suggests when it is no longer a communist. It is acceptable for me, and it is a very acceptable idea for Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Luke Bebić, to bring one declaration in which all totalitarianisms would be condemned. But this proposed declaration, as well as its main applicant, cannot be appreciated. Even though I have never been a communist, I feel contempt and disgust toward such Bolshevik methods as the submission of the proposal for this declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66074	At 17.05, it was time to apply for debate on this topic for 10 minutes. Proposer, respected representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66075	Your Honor, Mr. President, I know that Mr. Nenad, I am a great subject and a nightmare. But I'm not the subject of today's agenda. It's on the agenda of the Declaration and condemning the crimes of totalitarian communism, and apparently it's in your narrow circle, Mr. Stazic, when you drink a drink that there's a theft of my identity. So there's a person named S. Letica. This is Sveto Letica, who was indeed at the Congresses of the Communist Party of Croatia and at the Congresses of the Communist Party of Yugoslavia. The great Croatian warrior whom I, when you were expelled, took him to the late President Tudjman and, paid the Taxi from the Cube to the Office, the Presidential Courts and in a conversation that lasted 45 minutes, that dignified hero of the Croatian Saint Letica agreed to be commander of the Croatian Navy. You don't know anything about me. I was the subject of the persecution of your communist party and of your current party colleague, Ivica Racan. So, if you'd like to propose a free declaration of Slavica, we'll discuss it. And as for the essence of Stalinism, that's what I'm talking about, that guy of the trapped mind that you presented here, he's a pretext. So you could say something wrong about a declaration that is in itself a single document that is indisputable at all, you have to take away every humanity from me. You don't know anything about me. Therefore, I am not interested in your opinion of me at all. And as for the other proposals, I'm on the verge of thinking about those people who were here discussing bona fidei. First of all, your colleague Zgrebec, who is also unhappy, confused with these changes in identity. Look at the logs, if you haven't archived. Because the archiving of the record, especially the files of UDBA and HOS, was made for not knowing who was actually under different pseudonyms, different consultative names, etc. So, I would suggest the next thing. That our esteemed President of the Parliament proposes either that this document go to another reading, or that perhaps during this session a group of people who, in cooperation with the promoters, would make an absolutely unquestioned document condemning the crimes of totalitarian communism in the Republic of Croatia and who would be on the trail of the Council of Europe's most noble aspirations to condemn crimes that are unfortunately never emotionally or otherwise recognized. Especially on the side of Mr. Nenad Stazic. Mr President, thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66076	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66077	Mr. Letica is wrong. You're not me or the nightmare or any relevant subject. I think about what I think of you as a representative and about your 250 thousand kunas a year and about your political work I have expressed a very clear and unequivocal attitude. And about the Holy and the Glorious Flight, probably Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66078	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66079	Well, I'm correcting my colleague Letica's claim that I'm confused by the identity of S. Letica. From the 4th to the 7th of 12.1989, three chairs from me were sitting, not St. John's, but Slaven Letica, at the SKH Congress. I just don't know if he was a delegate or a guest. I'll check that out. At the fair.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66080	The memory's good. Knowledge is fragile and memory is fragile. ... Here, I'm gonna throw out some interesting paper, but I'm not really in a position to debate whether it is. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Dear Representative Florian Boras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66081	How today, May 25, 2006, to talk about this subject without getting a lot of replicas, correcting incorrect allegations, etc. But here, I'll do my best in that, that's how I talk about this subject. Those who actually, that's my opinion, don't want to talk about this, and of course decide, and those who want this to be taboo subjects for the next 45 years like it was from 1945 to '90. They say it should be processed. And I say let's process it, but let's process what's a war crime. Let's process the events of '41. By '45. On all sides, those who have not yet been processed. And I think it's the job of the state's attorney we've all recently given full support to. So that we don't have much philosophy about what he's supposed to do, I'm going to say it here in public. The military historical institute from Belgrade in 157 books, or more, recorded every war event at the premises of the former Yugoslavia in the period from '41, 9 May '45. You'll read very well and easily there. I'm quoting just a few pieces, we've captured 132 natives in the Arizona garrison and killed them all. Especially in killing a friend, I won't tell him his name, XY We captured an Italian teacher and all raped her. [[No XY.]] We killed all the Ustashas in that village and that village. '42. In the year Rade Bulat leaves for Promin to form, to God form a partisan movement, and to launch a Partisan movement and form a Bude Boris squad. Rade Bulat burns and burns in Croatian villages, helps Chetniks, rapes, kills and finally when he and his group cut up the priest... Maximilian Baci, who was then... writes to Titus for Dalmatia and says, "Friend Tito, if you hadn't sent him here, you'd have executed the most severe punishment in a long time ago." Therefore, the state's attorney should protect all those who advocate the prosecution of war crimes, let them read this book of the Military History Institute from Belgrade, and there will find names, names of perpetrators, names of commanders, etc. Unfortunately, many of them are not alive or most are not alive, some are. I think Mr. Maximilian's backwatering Tito to pull... They're working on the Promina bullate, and to get it back, they can testify from there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It exists in that book and sequence, it's already after 44 dots but in the original documents you'll find very easily and kill them all and kill them all and kill them all. So the liquidations were not an exception but a rule. There was no case that a prisoner of war soldier survived a Partisan capture, no known case. After 43. something like this has gone to the Partisans, but they have been liquidated in unnecessary actions in the final operations where the goal was to kill as many Croats as possible as possible as members of the Partisan troops. So much for the events and possibilities of processing and non-processing. I'll finish by saying, "Is Hitler a lesser criminal just because he hasn't been processed?" Will Tito remain in the heads of some positive historical person just because he is not processed? Of course, the dead can't be tried, but we're finally not here to judge, we're here to find that the communist system after 45 was totalitarian, that it was party and not only during the post-war period, especially 48, was mass-killing its political lowlifes. First he killed Croats trapped on the crossroad and some others, but in a small number. Of course no one was meant for it, whether it will be tried I do not know, many actors are not alive, but the fact is that in Croatia and today, respected colleagues and colleagues, there are thousands of mass graves, victims of major injuries known as Bleiburg and Crossroad. In these graves and cemeteries there are both children and women and soldiers. In these women, in those cemeterys are victims of war and these victims are entitled to a decent burial. That's what I would suggest to Mr. Letica to install this more declaration, a declaration as our obligation that we commit ourselves to bury those victims with dignity. Because dear friends believe me, I know that in Slovenian experience, there is no approaching Europe to a country full of cemeteries. I'm not going to mention, I can only put them on, mass casualties and killings and my political associates known for so-called. left and right turns. Those who turn left ended up on the Golo Island, those who turned right would end up in some other dungeons, Stara Gradiška, Lepoglava, etc. There were also torture and murder in these dungeons, etc. We are today faced with the return of property to Croats, Jews, Germans and others, and who took that property until the '60s, the '70s. Confiscated property by political and people's enemies. However, property was seized just to be reached by some comrades who came from Kozara or from other areas that are entirely foreign to the Croatian national corps, Croatian culture, Croatian national being. They took and killed, confiscated, expunged. In the extradition procedures, the country was taken away, and the country's farmer could not buy a single square metre of nylon covering the land, crops and the like. Is the democratic process of persecuting students in the '60s? Is the democratic process a ban on Croatian language? Is the democratic process of suffocating Croatian Spring? Are they Croatian... violently against Yugoslavia or politically? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is banning songs even one song that has nothing to do with a constitution like that? "Vilo Velebita", tried to ban that song, tried by those who sang it, is it a democratic process? Do we need to close our eyes today in 2006 in front of all these phenomena and to God say that there was no Tito there would be no Croatia? Then dear friends and dear colleagues and colleagues why this Homeland War, and why were we at war? Because if it hadn't been for the Homeland War, there wouldn't have been Croatia, and that's the only real truth to be told here, and I agree with my club president, Mr. Bebić, let's find a way, find the strength to make a joint declaration condemning totalitarian communism such as the universal condemnation of fascism and Nazism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66082	Replica, respected representative Zdenka Babić Petričević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66083	Mr. President. My colleague Boras, if you were to read the documents about the victims of communism, then you could not have been touched for 10 minutes, but you would have to sit in the Croatian Parliament for days, weeks, months and years. I agree with your last sentence, all of Europe's parliaments have condemned communism, why don't we have the strength and do it, so I'll just supplement you from one document. The headquarters of the 3rd Yugoslav Army, which published one of the actors, states: By the evening of May 15th, he said, our army ended a significant battle and beat Pavelic's living force of over 70,000 people of whom 10 thousand were killed, over 60,000 captured, those 10 killed did not die in Bleiburg or... but in breakthroughs across the border on the roads from the Croatian Zagorje and the Zidan Bridge towards Dravograd and Pliberg. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There were no women and children among those killed, unfortunately there are witnesses who are still alive, but today they do not have the strength for family reasons or their spirit or Catholic faith not to testify to this great crime. With that army was as seen from my... About 20,000 civil persons, so they weren't military faces to anyone who was a suspect, they were judged by a brief procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is one document from many documents of the black book of communism in Croatia to describe the truth would not be this small but this big. When you mentioned Willa Velebita for and you said it was forbidden to sing to Willa Velebit for many they went to prison. A girl from my village served four years in prison because she sang only one song "my dear died flying to Kupres, like his crown whales". She was beaten, four years later, she came home and hung herself. That's one example.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66084	Dear Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66085	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's after this emotional step of my colleague Mr. Boras, I've been thinking about how to actually talk about this topic. I will also try to concentrate really on the subject, I will also talk about the specific crimes committed during the totalitarian communist regime, but right at the beginning I want to say if we have the strength to face certain crimes that were committed in the Homeland War today and to seek punishment concrete and to seek out responsible people, concrete culprits for these same crimes then we must have the strength to also shed light on what happened in 50 years or 45 years of communist totalitarianism, to shed light on, to say what was really true, who were guilty and who were responsible for these crimes. If today we have the strength to talk about individual crimes in the Homeland War, and we must say who are the culprits in communism for the crimes that occurred during that period. I'll talk maybe a little more emotional about a specific case where they're after the end of II. The World War II communists, who were in the Partisans at the time, came to Dubrovnik without a fight and this came instead of the 2nd Dalmatian brigade, Croatia's 29th to recruit troops from eastern Herzegovina. In a few days, in particular, they killed 44 Croatian patriots, innocent victims, 44, among them eight friars. Lawyers, intellectuals, and who were actually the opponents of these communists, these Partisans? I'll read you a few names. Padre Marijan Blažić was a Franciscan who during the war, during II. World War I helped the communists and the Franciscan pharmacy sent drugs to Partizan fighters. Padre Perica. I believe everyone in this assembly and this young man in the gallery knows the song "The Paradise Girl, Queen of the Croats". The author of that song by Padre Perica was killed on Daxi, killed by communist Partisans without a court, without any verdict, without any conviction, without any evidence of any crime. That man of course couldn't have done or committed any crime. On the question of one doctor from the brigade, from the 2nd Dalmatian brigade, Dr. Corlighte, the question is that the doctor of the brigade sent the commander an apprentice to the commander of the 29th Herzegovian brigade. He wondered why you killed Padre Marijan Blazic, so he was ours? That's what an apprentice commander is to him, he was ours, but he knew a lot, so he would soon stop being ours. Publicized edition, so clearly with witnesses etc. I didn't mean to talk about Anti Jurjevic Baja, but since he already spoke about him here, I will again quote what he intended on October 25, 1944, from Dubrovnik, he wrote: "As far as people's enemies are concerned, they have been sent here, about 60, including 8 priests, or friars. We've announced the shooting with posters, but so far not everything. There's one part of the public coming out tomorrow, and we signed the court of command because we didn't have another."so he wasn't even there, according to that. He says, "Give this all your opinion either way, you must kill them." So, Comrade Ante Jurjevic Baja made a clear verdict with his comrades for intellectuals, for friars, for lawyers, for journalists, for all those who thought freely, who represented political rivals, opponents. One of them in Dubrovnik is specifically known that a large number of HSS remains during II. World War II was active and it had nothing to do with Ustashas or any crimes. What preceded it was the murder of 12, 11 young men from Konaval on Orsula. They were killed just before Daxa, 11 young Konavanana was killed, on Orsula thrown into the sea, their bodies sailed after a few days in Dubrovnik. I agree with you before I say anything about this proposal from our club, yet, I'm going to quote who was all thought by these Partisans communists, one of them who were in Dubrovnik at the end of II. World War I, whom they considered to be the enemy. Says Ante Jurjevic Baja in his testimony published in December 1992 in "New Vesnik". He says of the murder of certain Jesuits, the Dubrovnik Jesuits: "My intimate opinion that our intelligence had lived in the belief that the main enemy intelligence service was among the Dubrovnik Jesuits, and that was also the main reason for the execution of so many priests." And now this, very important: "I don't know if they worked for the English or for the Gestapo." So, these partisans, this Anti Jurjevic Baji, was also the enemy apparently an Englishman, an anti-fascist, an Allied force. He doesn't know if, he doesn't know if they've worked with intelligence, allegedly intelligence officers for the English or the Gestapo. I think unfortunately these examples have been too many. Indeed, in this Croatian assembly, we must condemn the totalitarian communist regime and all the crimes they have committed. I agree, Mr. Bebić said on behalf of our club that it was brave in the fall of what he did to SDP but it would have been much more courageous if they had done it in the 1960s or 1970s or the 1980s. My friend Florian in his inspired step he said imagine going to jail for singing "Vile Velebit." I'm sure let's say... The younger generation in this Croatian Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm saying this because of this mole upstairs. In the late '70s, I was running away from the police because we were singing Christmas songs. So that's why we ran away from the communist police. In the 1980s, people who were telling the truth were condemned, the friars specifically. In Dubrovnik, we know a friar who was sentenced in 86 C.E. thanks to two false witnesses for telling the truth, telling the truth. So, the communist totalitarian regime lasted until 90, and of course it was much easier when they fell, when they were confused in the May 90 elections, then it was easy to give up those crimes, it was easy to give up the communist past because they saw the people giving them the trust that their members who were left were among those who were certainly also those who were doing these crimes that we are talking about today. We can't deny it, and we can't say that there are no living criminals among us today. But it's the State's Attorney's office. In the Croatian Parliament, we asked questions to the state's attorney when these processes will indeed take place. And another example of how these Partisans communists who entered Dubrovnik acted was the murder of Croatian patriots arrested by Italian fascists and imprisoned in a concentration camp in Prevlaca. Thirteen of them were closed in 1943 because they were anti-fascists and were patriots that after the partisans came, I say down without a fight, to execute some of them, to be executed by the partisans afterwards. And the fascists locked them up because they were anti-fascists. Then who were those Partisans communists, which they were. In short, I support what Mr. Baby said. We need to agree, in any case, to condemn all crimes but to seek and process, to seek enlightenment for future generations, and for all of us here, we need to know the truth about what happened in communism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66086	Three replicas. First respected representative, Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66087	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I didn't mean to participate in this subject, but I didn't report this replica from family tradition or any assignment. It should be said that the painful history of the Croatian people is and there is no end and there may be no family in the Croatian people who have not experienced any sacrifices, either from the right or from the left. Well, now to list the names of the people who made these alleged victims, they'd do it by digging into the early national. It is not productive, it is not in the sense of the one in which Luka Bebić spoke. Secondly, the declaration, the historical declaration of the SDP, is not a product of dictatorship but of the thinking of the SDP. It is not driven by Europe but by the political will of the SDP. She was brought in just when she needed to, and that's why she called herself a historical declaration. About my own learning of history, I was at the sources of history in the broad hills and in the cave where the Franciscans were burned. It's no problem to admit it and how it says it condemns all victims of communism. And while we're at it, you've been talking too often in your debate between the Partisans and the Communists. It's just not historically allowed because there were a lot of partisans who weren't communists, that's what everyone here agreed on and now it's about the victims of communism. Well, it's not according to the Partisans who were fighting for freedom and weren't communists, it's just not allowed. In good faith and in good faith, I think the debate is a need without a personal yard and without a personal perspective.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66088	Replicate reply by Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66089	Look, colleague Leko, first of all, future victims have a name then for sure and criminals have names. And as you well know, war crime doesn't get old, and we all know it well. Therefore, if we are fighting for the truth, then we must really fight for the truth and find the guilty and say exactly who the guilty are. And as for the Partisans and the Communists, I was talking about them, the Partisans of the Communists, because I don't think all the Partisans were communists. Of course, among the Partisans were anti-fascists who were not communists, which is most often what communists abuse today, so all communists are anti-fascists or communists are the only anti-fascists. That's not true. The communists were anti-fascists and others who were not communists. As far as the timing you're talking about is, in your opinion, good timing. I've already said it was brave in the '90s but it would have been much braver much earlier because it would have been much less evil done in the period after that. And secondly, there is no need to deny the fact that some of your leaders today have climbed the social hierarchy, on a scale thanks to everything that happened during the "Croatian Spring". Thanks to cleaning up Croatian personnel in "Croatian Spring". So these are historical facts. Everyone's actions should be enlightened. So let's talk about the truth because it's necessary. You should give satisfaction to all the families of the victims. If we tell the truth, we'll do it in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66090	The second replica is Honored Representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66091	A respected colleague of Communism has indeed been abound with crimes and repression of human rights. I'm going to give a really bizarre example when two of my friends are arrested and charged a fine for clerofashism. In fact, they sang the song "Santa Lucia" which the fellow militiaman considered to be a serious fall of clerofashism. Second, a joke on the side of the Old Town on Hvar as well as on another island is systematically forbidden religious processes. In Old Town, the procession could only pass through the city to the Big Friday procession. If this isn't an eclectic example of a violation of religious freedoms and human rights, I don't know what it is. And a third. On Hvar, Partisans and communists or Partisans-Communists with a line between killings without a court of forty-two people. This is still a taboo topic on Hvar, and I know how they reacted to Hvar in 1999 when HSP first placed on Hvar the cross of the victims of Croatia with a beautiful stone vase dedicated to the victims of communism. Forty-two people were killed by partisan and communist hands and eight of all others who were on the island. So for all these reasons, for the reasons of all these most innocent victims, so all the people who died as Croats. All people who survived this period of repression of human rights and religious freedoms The Croatian Parliament must adopt this Declaration because we do not adopt it out of pure peace. We adopt it as a continuation, as a kind of ratification of the resolutions adopted by the Council of Europe to fence ourselves and condemn that time of the communist totalitarian order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66092	Reply to the replica, respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66093	Thank you. So you see in Dubrovnik, as far as the processions are concerned, communists and partisans have also tried to ban the procession of the Holy Vlach. Tried. It's a religious social procession actually, which today has a thousand and thirty and a few years behind it, 1034 years of tradition. But since they saw it wouldn't be very good because of the moods of the people in Dubrovnik, then they thought it could only be Sunday. Well, now that it falls on Sunday that then it can be a procession, and in some ways this procession has been maintained even in times of Communism and we can say they've had at least a little hearing. But as far as other behaviors are concerned, there are, of course, a lot of examples of these where, for singing patriotic songs or Christmas songs or any other songs, they went to jail or they ran from the police and so on, but I'm also going to mention one example when this 29. Herzegovica entered Dubrovnik without a fight. Ty, this same Ante Jurjevic Baja says they bought everything alive. That they were taking windows and doors from the house. Of course, they probably came from the middle where there was no door or window. And he makes that clear in his 1992 interview. That robbery, the murders, the crimes. I think it's said enough. [[The intruders don't understand.]] [[Intruder: That's what the Nepartians did.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66094	Honorable representative Ivo Lonchar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66095	A colleague, Matušić, says in his speech and wonders that he has run away from the national militia in his time because he sang Christmas songs. So, fellow Matusic, you know that the people's militia drew its inspiration from the socialist revolution. And in the Socialist Revolution, communists who were in the woods wore a three-horn hat and sang: "This three-horn cap fights against God." Don't be surprised. It's the inspiration of the Socialist Revolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66096	Honorable representative Ivo Lonchar. It's a debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66097	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. And here's the debate that tells us that we are a tragic people and a divided people. How we are still a people who have not ended World War II and all the civilized peoples have ended it. I would like this not to be a courtroom in this assembly today but to remove a historical lie from falsified Croatian history. We colleagues and colleagues cannot change our history. We can't make her better or worse. She's who she is. In the 20th century, we had three great evils: communism, faziism, and Nazism. The common denominator of all those three evils was killing a man. Killing a man. The communists had in their programming documents written down why people have to be killed? Because of the dictatorship of proletariats, because of ideas and different opinions. In their documents, the Nazis had a program orientation that people should be killed for other races, colors, nations, and faith. You see Mr. Luka Baby said you shouldn't talk about names. A fellow baby needs to be told about names. Not all communists were criminals, but communism was a criminal and terrorist regime. In our terms, the leader of this criminal and terrorist regime was Comrade Tito who was a criminal and a terrorist. Look, I condemn every evil. My colleagues and colleagues need to say this. I've been to Bleiburg five times before. I've been to Jasenovac three times. I was on Badger. I was in Maribor forest, in the Krapina forest, in the Bjelovar forest. I was at the pit in Arjana near Imotsky. These are all the sites where people were killed. That's what I'm judging. It's a crime for me when an innocent man gets hurt like hundreds of thousands of other people. You see Communism in its time, during its reign, killed more than 120 million people. And the whole World War II has taken 46 million people away. Communism and Nazism were allies. You need to know that. Hitler, Stalin, when communists and Nazis made an agreement in '39. It was worth until June 22nd, '41. years, etc., etc. So there's no doubt about what this is all about. And now I'm gonna go talk a little bit about those people who did those crimes. One of the biggest criminals in Bleiburg and Slovenia was Simo Dubajic, who in the book of Mark Lopusina "Blood Spring" from the 2002 "Kill Your Neighbouring" National Book of Belgrade, says his confession to what he was doing at the time. I quote, "I commanded the Kočevsky Horn. I took part in the liquidation of people by order. That's what I'm saying today because I realized that the alliance is stronger than victory. When I was May 25, '45. The year I came to Ljubljana, I referred to another Tito about the capture of Ustasha, the trustee, and the confiscation of gold. Then suddenly I got a warrant to get 30 grand, so here's the number, so 30 grand in his dictionary would be, "these domestic traitors, in fact the Ustasha, killed in Kočevsky Horn. Orders were issued by Ivan Matija Matjek, Max Bace and Jovo Kapičić, all of the rank's assistants. No one could make that decision except Tito. He was the only one who could call off his earlier dispatch. I was the boss, and I controlled it to the end. And I must say, it's impeccable executives. That massacre was carried out by 11. The Dalmatian brigade in which the commissioner was Milka Planinz and who killed herself.", finished quote. We move on, and the boss who was Simi Dubajic, Comrade Tito, he sends, quote, at the end of April 1945, quote, to all committees of the party and commissioners of the military units the following letter. I quote: "These days will provide an opportunity for the Communist Party of Yugoslavia to take over power in the territory of the entire country. That opportunity will only take a few days, perhaps just a few hours. And if we don't liquidate all our enemies at that time, that opportunity will be lost forever.", finished quote. So, very clearly who gave the order for the Bleibur tragedy. And now watch this, and our historians don't talk about this, I found this in "Politics" because I have long been plagued by this topic that Alexander Rankovic, the right and left hand of Comrade Tito, said on February 1st 1951, with the war name of Comrade Marko. Here's what Comrade Marco did on February 1st, '51. The year says of Belgrade's "Politics". I quote, "In the period of '45. Until '91. Three million 777 thousand 776 prisoners went through Yugoslav prisons.", finished quote. And Comrade Marco goes on to say, "Then 586 thousand people's enemies were liquidated. He understands the most Ustasha.", finished quote. Gentlemen, these crimes are to be talked about. If we don't talk about this, we don't have a future. We have nothing to be ashamed of. We didn't do it, I hope even our closer, but we must condemn all the three evils that were in our country of Croatia, and Nazism and fascism and communism. Here's another quote when the Partisan leaders boasted about what they did in '43. the years in Žumberk. They boasted about killing 218 people back then. These people, the late Milka Kufrin, Rade Bulat, Marko Belinić and Lutvo Ahmetovic. They then killed 218 people without any court. And here's what Marko Belinic testified about. I quote: "In the name of the people of Žumberka, you are sentenced to death, you speak to captive people, you all have no right to pardon, and judgment has to be executed today."and she was committed, those murders took place on December 31st, '42. on 1 January '43. A year. The same Mark Belinić, our President of the Republic, Mr Stipe Mesic, was awarded three years ago with the greatest Croatian medal. And now, watch out for the following, quote: "The evacuation of Croats begins. We receive the command of the most vicious two-faced, i.e. To return the Croats to their enemies, i.e. The Titans in Yugoslavia. But under the impression we're sending them to Italy. At the same time, Tito's partisans are hidden in train compartments. These accompanying partisans seemed to be a special bandit crew, as a gang and British soldiers did not hesitate that nothing but simple blood and bandits.", finished quote. He wrote these words in his war log, Colonel Roben Ross Price, on May 19, 1945. Let's move on. Witnesses Ivan Gugić, born in Vela Luka. That testimony was given in Rome on August 14, '53. The year, otherwise Titov is a partisan: "We kept prisoners until the arrival of the truck where we loaded them. We were full for 8 days in Kočeva, and daily there were 10 and more cars with ten to twenty wagons closed. In the wagons were mostly men and several women who were most cruelly raped before the shooting. Between 30,000 and 40,000 people were killed in these pits."," says Gugic. And he goes on to say, "There were more than 30,000 people killed in the departments we prepared from Kočev. My 3rd company was designated to escort and secure a newly formed unit that was chosen to kill the captured Croatian army. They were ordered by Captain Nikola Marcic of the region of Makarska. The commissioner of the company was Ivan Boš, a Montenegrin, and the commander-in-chief was Simo Dubajic from Kistanj. As far as women are concerned, they've been driven in the roughest way by dressed men, and they've been stripped and raped there. Except for women, I've seen about 200 boys."I've seen about 200 boys between the ages of 14 and 16." And what's scariest is, Gugic continues: "There was no reading, questioning or trial. All brought over the pits were liquidated in the most cruel way.". This is what the Partizan comrade Tito says. And please, this is a very important yet another testimony, a massacre at the duel. So the same witness continues to be in a column of 25,000 people who are heading over Derventa to Doboy. On one ice, I was among the 300 people who dug the pits in which 300 of our companions had to be buried all the way down to their shoulders to see only their heads. After that, Serb peasants were brought from nearby villages with five heads and civilian departments that dragged horses, oxes, toothpickers and wooden dams to the heads of these unfortunate people. All of this was attended by Poca Popovic. This is why we have to talk about all this. We must condemn evil in order for our Croatia to have a future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66098	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected Vice-President Luka Bebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66099	It is incorrect that I said that no names should be mentioned in the debate except as an illustration in the debate, no names should be mentioned in the court proceedings for the crimes committed, and in the name of ideology either this or that, I was saying that here is no place for us to open up the case now and prove ourselves. And secondly, it's not a question of whether someone committed a crime as a member of a nation or a religion but whether he committed a crime was either a winner or defeated in the name of some ideology. That's the question. And we don't judge, we bring the Declaration of Conviction of Communist Crimes during the communist rule and we stick to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66100	Replica, respected representative Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66101	Mr. President. My colleague Lončar can only complete your debate with one document, I quote: Among the many original documents that clearly describe the activities of OZNA there is an extremely important dispatch that Alexander Arakovic sent to the Croatian OZNA on 11 May 45, which in no doubt testifies to the concept of war communist crimes. Among other things, the dispatch states: your work in Zagreb is not good. Only 200 bandits were shot in 10 days in a freed Zagreb. We are surprised by this indecision to clean Zagreb from the villains. You're doing the opposite of our arrangements because we said you were working fast and energetically and you were finishing everything in the first days as fast as possible. And all the speakers today spoke of their places and of the processions, forbidden processions, singing songs "Heaven of Paradise, Queen of Croats", "To heaven be plowed" etc. I'm going to mention something, I was 11 years old and as normal as all the students and all the children of my Imotic neighborhood at Christmastime, or before Christmas time, we went to confession. I was late for the second bell and said there was the first and second bell in my Lovrec elementary school that I love today, then the principal of the elementary school stopped, and now it's called the principal. He asked me where you were, I said I was at confession. He was holding the gun, he wasn't beating my hands like this, he was beating my hands with this. And these are the things that remain in every Croatian man, so the Croatian youth has gone, let us take out and accept the history of the Croatian people on either side or on the other. It did not happen again in the Croatian people, let us not fight for the truth from 41 to 45, but let us write it down, and therefore the Memorial center of the Homeland War must do what the historians did from 41 to 45, so when my colleague Matoš mentions it all the time to Dax, I will mention another case. The crow pit on the island, on Vela Luka, the crow pit on Vela Luka is not mentioned. It's got innocent people buried in it who weren't on either side. We have no right to come to that pit today because it's said no yet, not yet. Not because of us, but because of the victim, every victim has his own name.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66102	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivo Loncar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66103	My colleagues Zdenko, you see here how many documents I have, I could tell that I had time or that the Rules of Procedure allowed, at least three hours, of communist crimes. But I said in my basic debate, and now I repeat, every crime should be condemned, every innocent man who gets hurt just because he's different, other colors, other colors of race, other beliefs, other nations or other faiths, that's a crime, and that should be constantly condemned. I don't call anyone here nor the followers of the communists, but we finally need to decidently say what they are and who these communist terrorists and bandits were. What were they doing from 41 when they went into the woods until they were 90? Because only in this way, our only true Croatia will have a future. The communist followers say they gave up communist crimes, but I've never seen a single letter say that another Tito has given up. Here these days in Zagorje is the birthday of Comrade Tito and the nose of the staff. And gentlemen, Comrade Tito is one of the greatest criminals in the history of civilization, a man who was a terrorist in his youth and killed people professionally. Well, that's what you need to know, so it's an elementary culture, that we need to know from our history. And why else do you have to convict him? Everything that he fought for, everything that he persecuted and killed innocent people was ruined. He fought for communism. Communism is gone. He fought for Yugoslavia, choked in the hottest blood. He fought for indifference. There's nothing left. So that's one failed politician, a hotshot, a terrorist and a criminal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66104	Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66105	Thank you, Mr. President. We are obviously close to that time spoken of, so we are talking emotionally, but what is actually the topic of today's discussion is the resolution that Professor Letica gave on the agenda, which is inspired, or translated into a good part of the Council of Europe resolution, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The countries that accepted that resolution had no partisan experience in World War II, mostly no one. They condemned communist totalitarianism because totalitarianism, communism, is evil in itself. Evil because it goes against human competitive nature. Evil because it is totalitarian and leaves nothing to a man of his own, nothing intimate, nothing of his own. Evil because it's collective and there's no person in it, there's no individual, there's a working class, there's a party, there's a nation in some variants, there's no subversives, but there's no man, and that's why it's evil. The three definitions also give rise to the possibility of committing communist crimes. Such a system enables him to commit a crime because it is the purpose he has declared more important to him than the people for whom it is done. But you should know, it should be said that the crimes were committed since '41. through Bleiburg, to Golog Island and to the execution of emigration leaders. These crimes were committed, committed by people in the service of communism, but not all those who could commit crimes in communism committed those crimes. Today we are obliged to say, it is up to the state's attorney to say it, we are obliged to tell the public there were people who committed crimes, there were people who did not commit crimes in communism. There were people who were in the party, there were people who were party officials and didn't commit crimes. They thought they were doing good. History has shown they haven't done well, but they haven't committed crimes. The crime should be named in all these cases, especially in those who are closer to our days because there are both executioners and commanders still alive. It's a shame the German police are telling us who killed our emigrations. That's what our police were supposed to find out. It is a shame for the Croatian state, for the Croatian judiciary, for the Croatian Parliament, for all the governments so far and for all of us together. We who have lived for a few dozen years in this country know about these people, we know what they were, we know that they were the bosses of secret, public, police, and such police, consecrated officials on this and that ground, who are the officials on this and that ground. We know the heads of emigration were liquidated, we know who was doing it, we know who was giving orders. The state's attorney knows that, too. Why isn't he doing anything? It's my riddle. We have plebiscitely given up Communism, as the whole of Europe finally has. It's nothing new, it doesn't really need to go any further or prove it, but on the other hand they wanted me to do it or not history recorded her good side and her bad side didn't even stop or start with 1990. Something good happened before. That's what needs to be made up. We all lived in that system, at least most of us here who crossed the 50th, lived in that system, made something, achieved something, somehow contributed to society, in some way helped ourselves. This should be reviewed if it is made in accordance with the law and in accordance with some elemental civilizational norms and norms of human morality. Crimes are to be paid by those who have committed them otherwise the Stigma remains on everyone. The system paid for it with a disgraceful fall. In the '90s and those years across Europe, it collapsed. I remember the words of the late Kresimir Djeba, he said easily with communism, Communism will collapse on its own anyway, the problem is with little reds in our heads, and we'll have more generations of sneaking around. These little reds prove to be totalitarian dictators no matter what anyone calls a party, who has declared yourself a follower of what, try to recognize in your actions, in your thoughts those around you the inheritance of those little red ones. There's a lot of them for sure. The question today is, what about the executioners and the employers of these crimes that we condemn to this resolution? On the one hand, we heard a few names there, I'm afraid that most of them either dead or in such years that it doesn't have a lot of legal sense to pursue them, but on the other hand it's crucial to say that it was a certain person, that it was a certain man, that it was this Simo Dubajić and that it was necessary not only to say politics and to say our newspapers, it is necessary that, I mean "Politika", the newspaper of Belgrade, it is necessary for the Croatian public to say so, and once and for all, to put it in a historical drawer where it belongs that our children would not deal with it. It's an abstraction to them. I have a 22-year-old son whose events are as far apart as Napoleonic wars, and every time I start to explain who's what and who's on which side of what he's been doing. The child doesn't really care, he listens to me out of decency, but he doesn't really care, he's interested in who of my colleagues is able to connect to the Internet, if I have an Internet address. It's important to him right now. So let's encourage that, it'll be easier for all of us in the future. As far as executioners and employers are concerned, some of them have been in those 40 years, so since '45. '90s. repented and went to dissidents. That is why they paid rudely, and their pay is that they are paid today as a contribution to the democratic thought and progress of democracy in Croatia. However, before that they were where they were and should be said. It's the same truth, the truth we have to face. These people at some point until they became dissidents were something else. There's a lot of them in our recent history. In particular, the resolution proposed by Professor Letica is pleased that we will probably agree that the text of the resolution should be slightly changed in that last point because it actually prejudges the lustration. If lustration is to be carried out, if it makes sense for lustration to be implemented today, then a lustration law should be made that will be with clear criteria to know who can and who can no longer work in life. This isn't the place. Otherwise, such a resolution as the Council of Europe has brought, and the rest of the text of the resolution proposed by Professor Letica, I am more or less in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66106	Proposer, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66107	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I have to do it again even though it's a mistake both on the agenda and on the application logs. So this Declaration, the Proposal for a Declaration were jointly proposed by the Croatian Party of Rights Club and by Dr. Prof. Slaven Letica, and I must say that I am pleased by the course of this debate, now it is near the end, that here, we will find ourselves in the community, that we must bring this declaration, meaning about what the Council of Europe Parliament has brought, and that we have agreed that we will all work together to get the text that will be relevant for all, and I think that there are no more or less significant differences and therefore I also plead to end this debate, by saying that the only thing that was here today was bad that individuals such as Mr. Stazic or some, tried to escape from this declaration, from the text attacking Mr. Slaven Letica. I think it is inappropriate because the subject of today's declaration and today's debate is not a respected colleague of Slaven Letica but what is contained here, and I think it would be far more appropriate for everyone to devote themselves to what is in the text, to what was in history to finally say everything and for all the victims' sakes of the family of these victims, for all of today's people who have lived, who want to at least get while they're still living there moral satisfaction, and I think that means that we have to give it to them by the Croatian Parliament. It is a great honor for your historic declaration, but it is a second weight when it is determined by the Croatian Parliament. It has a whole other weight, it stays recorded in history and normally I hope you'll be involved in that, so SDP clubs too, here's the HNS Club we talked about that part that's controversial to them. So that's what I'm happy about, finally, that we all get our strengths together for a better future, and not fighting for a better past, the past was what it was. We heard from Ivo say that Rankovic boasted that he had imprisoned over 3 million 777 thousand 770 people in the period from 45 to 51, and that he himself admitted that 586 thousand were executed, that these were Ustashas and enemies. So there are enough historical facts, we don't talk about names here, but we certainly expect the State's Attorney's Office to tell me personally and Slaven and my club all of these cases that we've gotten where we report exactly the lives that have committed such crimes we send to the State's Attorney's Office to finally and the State's Attorney's Office does the part and there's a lot of meaning living yet who have committed crimes, these are war crimes that don't get old. Therefore, we must all do so. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66108	Thank you. Dear Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66109	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! Unlike Mr. Kovacevic, I am not happy about the course of this debate, and so I answered later to say a few words. In fact, I have a feeling that there would be a lot less misunderstanding in the Croatian Parliament if we received full and official reports from individual international meetings where we participate. I am sorry that Mr. Matušić did not intervene here and correct this debate because he is the president of our delegation to the Council of Europe. A fellow Letica could also have said something more about the very resolution that serves here as the basis of this proposal declaration, so you'll let me say a few words because I think it's very important that we put some things in place. Namely, I'd like to say here, colleague Cain is here, that this is about the first international document condemning the crimes of the communist regimes. Never before in history has any international organization adopted such a document that would condemn communist regimes, ever. First time. My good friend from the Swedish delegation Mr Goran Linbrad was a rapporteur on this point, he and his colleagues from the Political Affairs Committee prepared a brief and very clear resolution that had four basic objectives, colleagues and colleagues, four objectives. Condemn the crimes of communist regimes, rehabilitate victims of these regimes, rehabilitate members of their families and send a clear message for future generations that nothing like this can happen on Europe's soil. Are those four goals clear? Only that and nothing else was the subject of that resolution. Parliamentarians from the Czech Republic, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, Bulgaria and Hungary spoke most of the most objectively of their countries' deaths during the communist rule. They did not call for revenge or otherwise seek justice for crimes, but gratefully confessed to the victims of communism and requested their rehabilitation. One debate really on one high level. Unfortunately, 50 European-left parliamentarians and one part of the Socialist Group said much has changed under the roof of the Council of Europe in the last ten years. One of the exhibitions dedicated antifascism under this point is to be careful as evidence of the correctness of communism. Others in their anti-communism exhibitions indicated the paranoia of imperialism. And the third conditioned that they would support the resolution if it made it even more clear that some communists contributed to democratic change in their countries. It was a very poor debate. I am six years in the Council of Europe, four in Congress and two in the Parliamentary Assembly. This was one of the poorest discussions that could be held, especially when it was known that the objectives of the resolution were more than clear. However, the resolution itself highlights the positive role of some communist parties in political events in the late 1980s, and I am sorry that the Letica colleague has thrown out of his declaration. Okay, well, she's not in there. Therefore, and it exists in the electoral resolution, you know it exists. The resolution was accepted by a very tight majority. The democratic procedure is respected but there is one bitter taste left. Right after the resolution was voted on the recommendations, so... about this point. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Recommendations to the Member States of the Council of Europe should be a guideline to how to continue to act in connection with the crimes of communist regimes and how to rehabilitate their victims. The recommendations are that the adoption should be given to the two-thirds majority, unlike the resolution for which the half-dominated majority was sufficient. I'm afraid that didn't happen. My conversation with Mr.... He assured me that soon he would propose recommendations again, that he hoped that there would then be a greater number of members of the parliamentary assembly present because some had left, it was somewhere at the end of the week and that the Council of Europe would finally adopt the recommendations itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As recommended, I would suggest to the right now that those recommendations are not given to the two-thirds majority, you include them inside. Those are excellent recommendations. They're actually suggesting what? They propose to the governments of the member states of the Council of Europe to launch identical or similar declarations, resolutions in their parliaments. That's why the HNS Club proposed that the government should have done it. Right after we got out, but it didn't. ... We accept colleagues. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You did it just waiting six months for something to happen that didn't happen. Second. The proposal was that these recommendations were not passed to investigate and prosecute criminals. And a third. That through documentation centres, museum sets, publications to younger generations leave a lasting clue that nothing like that will happen again. This is what I thought had to be said and this has been debated and this is all that's been discussed so this epic width is absolutely unnecessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66110	Thank you. Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66111	Thank you, Mr. President. Despite this, what my colleague Miljenko said wouldn't take epic breadth, I would now, since I was speaking there on behalf of the club, would now say something on my own behalf. I come from the village of Slavonia, from one area which was at that time, at that time of war according to the stories of my parents and others from my place and from nearby places was as the Ustasha region is called. Because there were far more Ustashas and natives there than there were partisans. That's a very hard price for you to pay. There are many caves, there are many who have lost their parents. There are many widows and there are those who have no one else. Because at certain times, entire families were killed because someone was in the Ustashas or because someone was in the homelands. My village where I come from, in my village never said when the partisans came that the village was freed but that the village had fallen because it was such an end. I understand other areas that had completely different enemies and a completely different attitude towards the construction of the Croatian state. In my neighborhood, the construction of the state went through the domain through the Ustasha. And I can't blame those people at that point. That all that they lived through this time that was stated here and here until 1990 they paid very, very much. They paid from non-building, from non-investment, from closing to sing songs, and not to speak any further most of it you brought out here. What did these people expect from the Croatian state? They expected what this protocol needed to be adopted in the Council of Europe and ordered. In fact, do not do it, but in some way commit Croatia. Process criminals. Process those who stood on the pits, who killed people without any reason just because they belonged to something else. That's what all my locals expected. And they ask me today when they see how, what trials are being conducted when they come to order from World War II and here? And today they ask me that. The older ones who stayed alive. And that's why I don't think we've done enough since 1990 to convict criminals. And it's proven to be villains. There's too much testimony, there's still too many witnesses who can testify that they were criminals and that they committed crimes. And therefore, the minimum is to adopt this resolution as brought by the Council of Europe. Without that lustration part. And it would be very good if everything that's happened in the past had already ended once. And we can only end it that way if the trial ends. Because when else are we going to stop with the past? Never, gentlemen, never. And if he were broken now, then he'd say let's suggest a resolution that will say, we condemn, point one: we condemn the dark past. Point two: Let's go to the future. And point three: one who continues to talk about the dark past must not in the light of the future. Let's get this over with. Let's let the judiciary do its job. Let's order, not to the judiciary, but to the investigative authorities. Let's order them to do their job. It's not the ones who did it in one party. They're not gentlemen. They're mostly not in the parties anymore. Because they don't need parties. And because of 5737 political prisoners as many as are still alive, they're part of this story of ours today. And for them, those who drove them to prison should be condemned. But let's individualize the guilt and condemn those who did it. For 15 years we've been fighting to, and in, after this war, individualize the guilt because we know where we're heading. So let's do it with those who worked before and draw the line finally with all of our dark sides of the past.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66112	Dear Representative Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here after this debate that has lasted so far I will be very brief and I would actually rely on what my colleague Kapraljevic said. Let's end World War II once, but let's end it in one real and proper way. Let's not run away from identifying one evil, and that was the communist regime, and that's exactly what this declaration is looking for. We're not talking about revenge or anything. This is a moral act that this body, the Croatian State Parliament, needs to make clear to me and loudly say that the communist regime was a criminal regime, that he had his perpetrators who, unfortunately, were still alive and by all rights and morals, they must be responsible for this crime, because everyone else has so far been responsible for other crimes in totalitarian regimes, and so must those who committed those crimes in the name of communism. Therefore, I absolutely support the declaration. It is proposed that the text be agreed if they want to change in that sense, the final part on the issue of illustration. But I want very clearly to say that I support the declaration because the time has come to finally, and in this House, such a declaration is made, that it is said in a poor and loud way, that communism has committed a crime, and the consequences we see. A demographic picture of Croatia is one of these consequences of the communist crime. Since '41. By '45. Because of the loss of a generic, large part of our general population. We've had a population decline, and we've had it because of all the processes that were since '45. '90s. And unfortunately mine had now in this last defensive war when we were attacked by Chetniks and the South-Spare aggression. Therefore, these are the consequences and we will feel it for decades and because our future, our children finally know what was going on and who is responsible we must clearly and loudly stand behind this declaration and say that this is our duty and our moral obligation. I absolutely support this declaration.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66114	Thank you. Final Review, Honored Representative, Proposer Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66115	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues. I am extremely grateful and would like to thank everyone for participating in the debate. I think a principle agreement has been reached on the necessity of condemning communist crimes. And that is the starting point and the final destination of this declaration. Me and my colleagues from the HSP as proposings are interested in getting on our side and so far indecisive Damir Caine and IDS. In that sense, I would answer the question of lustration. The last major Magnum crime of the communist regime was the great aggression of the Yugoslav or Yugoslav communist armies on Croatia. One of the basic elements of insolence, destruction, nihinism, Croatia's march was not only the Serbian but also the communist elements. And in that sense, the answer to the question of lustration shows the wisdom of the late President Tudjman, who at a time when it was clear that the South-Communist army and the High-Serb paramilitary forces were moving towards us, that there was no lustration. In addition, there were elements of only lustration and in this sense it is absolutely necessary to give compliments that Mr. Luka Bebić has shown according to the leadership of the modernized SDP. Unlike Pera Kovacevic, it is not regrettable that Nenad Stazic was contacted in the first place. Because he testifies that this communist spirit is still alive and that, among other things, the purpose of this declaration is that through textbooks, through education, through the action of mass media, the same way that people's education for genocide, for holocaust, for multiculturalism, for tolerance, to develop a culture of understanding of communism as great evils. Of course, there are pensioners left. But from what I understand, Silvano, your objection is more or less related to the circumstances that the government did not report as a proposing. I think it's still in the other plan. I think that, individually and as parliamentary representatives and clubs, we should relieve the government at times, because it has other and perhaps more priority jobs and that it is much more important to achieve consensus and work on it. And it remains a technical question. We have a decision to make, Mr. Baby, to declare our agreement, to agree on the declaration and the Storms. Nothing happened in a month. In order for the same thing not to happen now, I would ask our president to take the lead and that perhaps your secretary or someone simply operationally arranges it. I don't have anything. I only have a coffee shop and I don't have a desk or a secretary, I just can't technically organize it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-25-0.u66116	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. And the promoters of this declaration shall, together with, within one appropriate time, meet together with the presidents of the clubs and try to bring this clue into line with the text of the declaration. When you agree to it, then suggest it to the vote. And you do the same thing with that previous declaration. I can't take that burden on myself, so now I'm going to go to a match with some clubs. That... Take that lead is you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now it would be unnecessary to continue the debate. So tomorrow, at 9.30, we'll start with the session and the report on the work of the Police Attorney for 2005 and continue on as it goes. SECURE Interrupted at 18.53 P.M. Proposal for a declaration of conviction of crimes committed during the totalitarian communist order in Croatia from 45 to 90. The applicant for the declaration is the club of HSP representatives and the representative of Slaven Letica. You have been given a new text on the bench of the proposal for a declaration that is in line with the comments and suggestions made in the debate long ago. I am voting on the proposal for a declaration. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 67 votes for, 3 abstentions and 12 against, a proposed declaration was adopted.
